ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100961	Thank you very much, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs before us is the final proposal of the Prosecution Act. I have to say, as far as rehearsal is concerned, it's a relatively new institution, a relatively new job in our system. The first law was in 2009 then we had 2012 and now we are in front of you again with a new law, but again when we look at everything that is being done under the probation system I must admit that we are more of a criminal justice system in Croatia unimaginable without trial. The trial is an extremely important activity, so it is defined as an activity of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, because it protects itself from that risky group of perpetrators of criminal acts, but so far we have organised this work in 14 district offices throughout Croatia and in these offices professional people, educators, sociologists, lawyers, psychologists who are actually in all phases of criminal proceedings and how they are using and how they are doing important tasks for the bodies that are in criminal systems and when we start from the first stage when the state attorney comes in the phase of the investigation when they determine and choose the security measures, measures to ensure the presence of the defendants themselves. When choosing at all which criminal sanctions will be proposed here, our professional people submit a report at the request of the State's Attorney's Office give suggestions. Likewise, and when the matter is in the very criminal proceedings, when it is before courts then courts may request special reports from our trial offices, and yet related to what punishment they say, what punishment would actually be appropriate in relation to a certain perpetrator. And that third stage when someone is already legally condemned when we come to the fact that he has to come to the execution of the sentence we at that stage have again included our probational offices that care about all those things related to the maintenance of the sentence and about the conditional sentence and about the organisation of the work for the general good, they also follow those things when our convicted people who are in the system are therefore in the penitentiary and prison when they have the right to go somewhere to be 2-3 days again we worry about it and what's actually the whole system is that individualization, because the punishment of course must have that repressive part of it must have that prevention and general and special one, but it's especially important that part of the punishment means resociprocation, because someone who actually passes this entire system of maintenance of punishment, we must assume as a society all that tomorrow when he is able to be able to be a re-apply useful member of society and can actually join and actually begin with some way of the people who has been able to do so. What we really want with this new law, with this new law, we want in principle to support everything that has been set out by amendments to the Penal Code since 2015, where we have given some new powers to the system of probation and in this context we will amend this law that has 35 articles, in this way we want to actually comply with the Penal Code. We're much more precise in many of these provisions, we're much more precise in organising so work for the common good, we know exactly who's applying, who's making the decision, when it can be delayed, when it can be interrupted, we've now specified it. We have also set out this law and related to the implementation of security measures, we are much and much clearer, the procedure really has no more doubts, and all of what has been shown in practice as a question of whether we need some things in one way or another, we are now in this law to be precise. The law also defines a certain supplement on the salary of all these people who work within the probationary system, we need to know that these are extremely difficult and complex jobs that they communicate with a rather risky group of people, so people who have committed crimes and that it certainly has certain difficulties and then this law provides for a better reward. And we're going to have one body, badges that will monitor the situation in the area in which we are, and it's composed of a representative of the trial of our prison system, the state of attorney, the courts that are actually going to monitor the state of these things, that are going to propose better measures to improve this system. Otherwise, we can look at the sampling system through the fact that we have more and more objects from year to year. We left quite modestly in 2011 with thoughts below 1,000 items, and today in the last year we had 4122 cases with us already on 4200 cases this year by the end of the 8th month, so by the end of the year we're going to significantly exceed that number. We organized over 500 thousand hours of work for the common good, and this is one institution that I would say is somehow in international terms Croatia can serve as a good example of what is actually seen through our bilateral contacts to actually spread our knowledge and to pass on to others so that this is one institution that is good and this law will contribute to making it even better in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100962	Thank you. Let's go to the replicas. The first one's a respected colleague, Celich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100963	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, it is very important that everyone that the probation service actually plays a dual role, so, except for the supervisory role that it has a role that enables rehabilitation and social integration. First of all, I think of addicts of the perpetrators of criminal acts, given that I am involved in addictions, and it is very important, therefore, that these reasons for the delay are also mentioned among those six when it is possible to postpone or interrupt work for the common good, let's say when an addict goes to the therapeutic community. I am still interested, given the experience of certain countries in the European Union, in the European Union, as Italy has said, whether or not you have considered any amendments to the Penal Code, where a certain part of it would mean ending itself in the case of perpetrators of criminal acts, especially in the sense of rehabilitation and reintegration, could be carried out in the therapeutic community if, of course, it is not murder but other criminal acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100964	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100965	Thank you very much for this. As you know, we have amendments to the Penal Code in our first reading, and we will continue to dedicate this matter to a certain time, and before the second reading, we will make a final decision whether it is possible or not. In any case, there are certain advantages to what you're talking about, but the question is again the capacity of the infrastructure we've given ready for such a thing. We'll see about that by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100966	Now it's time for my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100967	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, so here you are, and now with this proposal, with the final proposal to try on a small door, you have introduced a change that could indeed have disastrous consequences, and it seems to me, and you have introduced it past the public debate, beyond the possibility of e-consultation. This is specifically about art. 4 where you have thrown out the word extremely that has in some way allowed people to report for the work of a probationary officer and to a completely equal position you have brought, therefore, the professions which are exclusively or almost or almost competently engaged in and tried, and introduced entirely other social humanistic professions, so it was past public debate and past e-consultation, so please explain to us how it came and why.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100968	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100969	Thank you very much. This change has actually arisen at the request of the attorney general who cares deeply about the entire system and who is constantly communicating with us, and we think that we are within the probationary systems within these 14 district offices that we have and when you see the structure of those people who are employed inside, I think it's an extremely professional composition that is there. We do have psychologists and sociologists, we have a whole series of lawyers, so at this point it's a very professional system, this change that's been made, it's actually created at the request of the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100970	Now it's Comrade Maras' turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100971	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. By listening to this debate and by proposing how to convince the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that this system will work in the right way when the strategic second main partner in the ruling coalition is a man who buys parliamentary representatives, a political trade that is accused of several, I will not say tens, but somewhere I think a dozen criminal acts being processed in court and defacto he proposes through you here probation law. So for himself, he proposes a probation law and in some ways a pillar is the HDZ coalition. Milan Bandic is the mayor of Zagreb of Plenkovic's coalition and therefore citizens have no confidence in what you propose, and on the other hand, the question will be whether if a condemning verdict happens as Cobankovic to peel potatoes for corruption and will it also be a practice for future parts, [[The Intruder President: Thank you]] When a politician from the ruling coalition is peeling potatoes without... [[Agreement President: Comrade Maras Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100972	I'm begging you, I shut you down because you spoke 10 seconds longer. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100973	Dear colleague Maras, in this dimension, it's hard for the two of us to talk. You have raised some questions to which a concrete judicial body must actually give its answer. As far as the sampling system is concerned, that's what I said. In fact, the system is relatively young and the sampling system is indeed resting on professional people unburdened by any political interventions or this. They make very specific decisions that are individualised in relation to each person to whom to apply what measure, according to whom the sentence is the part which they in some way professionally assist participants in criminal proceedings. And to the State's attorney and to the court who makes the final decision, and to the court who cares about the execution of certain sanctions. So this political part of me would leave you here, and as far as this law is concerned, the law will improve a system that is already pretty good right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100974	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100975	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. So, after 9 years of adoption of the first Law on Prosecution, in fact, through practice certain things have been seen that need to be changed, and thus the position of probationary officials working with high-risk perpetrators of criminal offences and I am glad that from the first reading and their demands related to the debate have changed this relationship regarding probationary officials and will, in fact, change their relationship with them. But not on personal protection. The fact is also that these people who actually work with them are because of their health problems related to PTSD, and they go to their homes and work in extremely difficult conditions. Will they also work in their personal protection, and how will they actually work on that salary supplement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100976	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100977	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you have indeed rightly pointed to the complexity of the work of the bloated people who work in the probationary system, which is why we also provide for this law to have one supplement on their salary. And what about this security aspect, clearly we're going to work on making sure that these people don't do anything unwanted because they're really working with a very risky group of people where it's possible that these things happen but we're taking care of that security aspect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100978	The next replica is the respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100979	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. The involvement of the civil sector in this important system, in the digestive system, is certainly very important. I am interested, do you think that associations are sufficiently involved in the current system or do they need increased engagement? I'm just curious as to how you're assessing the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100980	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100981	I'm estimating the current cooperation with the good. It is clear that there is always room for the better, but it seems to me that in this way I am also somehow transferring civil sector attitudes because we are constantly in communication and cooperation with them so that there are no open questions here. Our doors are open to all suggestions, to all proposals, and I think this is one area where there are no gaps between us, but as far as further cooperation is concerned, we will certainly take care of the civil sector but today is good cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100982	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the representatives' clubs. Reporters of the board, will they take the floor? No, then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative, Željko Raguž, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100983	... Associates, colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I would like to remind you that on 28 April this year, at the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament, we accepted the proposal of the Law on Testing with 111 votes for and with 1 abstention which says that we have a good text of the Law on Testing and that the debate under the Prosecution Act was mostly a principle of nature and that only the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament had concrete proposals for amendments to the proposal for the text of the Prosecution Act. This suggests that the Ministry of Justice has made a good text of law on the basis of experience of 10 years in the Republic of Croatia, in line with all the necessary laws in the Republic of Croatia, especially with the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance and the Law on Life Partnership of Persons of the same sex, so that the amendments on the basis of the proposal of the Legislative Committee largely moved around the timing of the deadlines as said by the Minister, then the introduction of new concepts that define in a more precise way the doubts of the earlier text of the law, then the more precise distribution of competences between the central and the field office of probationary service in the Republic and with all the proposals adopted by the Committee on Law, we have the final text, which I repeat, adopted all the results of the trial in the Republic. In addition, the probation service and the probation law were also adopted as said in 2009 in the context of the process of European integration of the Republic of Croatia when all the achievements of the probation service, probation activities in the European countries and the United States were respected. With the Prosecution Act, the Penal Code, we now have one full system of enforcement of criminal sanctions, so other than the main, prison sentences and fines, and the system of enforcement of alternative criminal sanctions in the Republic of Croatia, therefore conditional convictions, conditional convictions with protective supervision and, in particular, the work for general good. It is precisely this third alternative sanctions and the most popular public in the Republic of Croatia in terms of comments we have already heard about because it is a space for different politicisations and evaluations and it is not respected that this system of alternative sanctions is used for significant financial savings compared to the regime of the implementation of sanctions in prisons, then it is possible to reduce relapses, perpetrators of criminal offences, and besides, it is possible to show what experience, which is also relevant research, relevant research, enables reintegration of the perpetrators of criminal offences in society, is possible in a certain way and that where conditions exist to maintain and work, i.e. one process of rehabilitation with families, i.e. the environment where the perpetrator of criminal offences lived. As there were speeches, as progress has been made in the development of the probationary service from literature is noticeable that in the Republic of Croatia we now have about 100 probationary workers, which is probably not enough in relation to the fact that the probationary service relieves the prison system for several thousand perpetrators of criminal offences, meaning it will be necessary to develop a probationary service in the Republic of Croatia by respecting standards that already exist in the countries of the European Union, where, for example, in Norway, one probationary employee implements a programme with 30 convicts, and in most European countries around 50 convicts are moving, while in the Republic of Croatia, by published works, it has been over a hundred and more convicts. It is precisely esteemed that the probationary activities and effects achieved by the probation service in the Republic of Croatia should be considered to extend the number of persons in the Republic of Croatia, which will also contribute to the development of public confidence in this activity. With all the above mentioned, therefore, improvements in the text of the law with all the corrections made in the more precise definition of terms, deadlines and division of competences, I appreciate that we have a good final text of the law on probation and I finally point out that the HDZ Club will support the final proposal for a law on probation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100984	Thank you very much, the next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which will speak the respected representative Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100985	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. As we had the opportunity to hear The final proposal of the law on probation is therefore in its second reading actually harmonized nomotechnically with the proposals of the working bodies and the suggested proposals in the first reading. In the first reading, the SDSS's club welcomed the proposed amendments to the law on probation and I particularly consider it important to highlight and commend increased care for probationary officers who will be valued by the weight, nature of the work and the specific working conditions to which they are exposed. It is important to mention these special additions to the salary of probationary officers that have already been prescribed by the current Regulation on special working conditions in the public service, and this supplement is personally considered more than justifiable and shows one important message, that this service is being taken into account and that the perspective should be given to thinking that the probation work is being extended. In all, therefore, it is important to point out that this final proposal of the Prosecution Act aims to improve the material position of probationary officials and facilitate their work. It is also important to obtain a whole series of data during testing and these data are certainly important to prevent and prevent relapses. Information is useful and usable in terms of prevention and less likely to repeat the crime, which further contributes to the protection of the public and to reducing the risk of relapse through reintegration and rehabilitation of the perpetrators. So there are fewer prospects for the repetition and consequences of such a crime and greater efficiency and economics of the judicial system. Of course, this system is more humane because it protects society's safety, less people in prisons, and this model is cheaper because practice in other countries shows that developed testing leads to less repetitive criminal acts. In my first reading debate, I asked the question of inter-resorship cooperation as well as the establishment of an inter-resor committee, composed of representatives of relevant authorities, judicial, prison systems, probation system, social care, and requested an explanation in which cases the inter-resor committee would be drawn up. Certainly, the answer we have received is satisfactory, because the establishment of an inter-resor committee is intended, therefore, to bring all stakeholders into line with the probationary system of the perpetrators of these criminal offences and to ensure that harmonised treatment is necessary because of all the shortcomings in the current inter-resorial cooperation that therefore existed. The composition of the inter-resor committee has been said to be composed of so the best people to point out to each other in due time the weaknesses in the application of this law, and to make it better. To really be, therefore, to achieve the goals that have been outlined through this law. In any case, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the Final Proposal Law, considering that it is of exceptional quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100986	Thank you very much, the next club of representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Orsat Milenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this is one of the laws where in the debate a man can be very brief and actually summed up on that we're going to support him. Of course, we have one remark that has been made by colleague Alfirev, and for which we are putting the amendment, it is on this article 4 and what we want to highlight may be broader than this, only from this law. So we have a whole series of colleges where people specialize, train, study to do something about choosing it as their profession. I think that we generally have to think in the future that even when we open jobs, then we associate them with what people have done. I know what the structure of the trial offices is, and I know that many people who are just covered by these professions that you're spreading here are doing very well, but I'm talking about the future and perspective, I'm not saying that they wouldn't be able to do it right now, I'm talking about the future. So, I would call not only in this law, but in all the other laws, wherever we have and wherever we can go to one specialization, otherwise we send the wrong message, we say you can finish anything and you can do anything, it's not like colleges don't serve us anything because you're gonna end one thing and you're gonna do something else entirely. And that's why I'm not aware of it, and I understand that it's been looking for the attorney general to move this extravagantly, but I think it was a better solution and that's why we're proposing an amendment, that it's just spreading the circle of people who can deal with this job, except for those who actually went, chose it as their profession and studied for it, it's not just here. In a whole series of jobs, we have people who don't know how to end up coaching something and make decisions about legal or other things, about status issues. So, I say I'm going out of this law, but we generally through all the laws expanding the possibility that someone who's done something completely different is doing something third just because they have a famous VSS social or if we're talking social direction we're sending a completely wrong message and we're not doing it and one ranking and directing of young people when they go to study and choose what they're going to do in life. So I'm saying here I understand here in law, we've put the amendment you're going to define yourself to, but it's.../incomprehensible/... in all the laws that we're going to think about. Not everyone can do everything, but someone gets more education in one direction and then needs to give him a chance and open more jobs for what he's educated for. It's gonna happen to you that someone who's just being educated for probation won't get a job because we've passed a circle of people who can do it, a false message. So that's about the objection. As far as good things are concerned, absolutely one of these is what let's say legalizing what was so far regulated by the regulation, these are additions to the salary of probation officials doing extremely difficult and responsible work, it is very important to allow them to add not only to the financial part, but also to point out that they are doing hard and responsible work. And that's something that, in the perspective as much as possible, should be spread and well put into law. Of course, being in line with the criminal record is the same good thing, what I hope now works better than what worked out is working together with courts especially in understanding courts when satisfied with reasons to call off, say, work for the common good, because it was one of the many problems where you actually have the impatience of probation officials because if one who needs to perform the work for the general good knows that the court won't call him off if he doesn't do what he needs to do then he sends a completely guilty message. However, it is not a matter that is dealt with by law, it is a matter that is solved by coordination, conversation and general understanding and evaluation of probation as a service. So all together with what I've pointed out to Article 4 but it's not just about this law, and you've given an explanation why he's here is that change, but it's something that we need to think about in all the laws, if people are schooling for something, let's open up a job to do in the future. Not everyone can do everything, we've chosen an interest, and let's let them do it by the people who went to school for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100988	Thank you very much, we will now move on to individual debates and the first to appear is the honourable representative Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100989	Thank you, Vice President, so here I am going to continue on the trail of my question and on the trail of colleagues of Orsat Milenić on behalf of the SDP Club. And so it is true that we have given the amendment, and you will, of course, manifest yourself about it, and I hope that you will think about it well and accept it because that amendment of ours is not going to harm neither the law nor the probationary system, nor goes to harm anyone, but in fact that our amendment is actually only going towards good, it goes in the sense of ensuring quality of the work of probation. You have pointed out yourself how important the digestive system really is, everyone here has agreed with it, you have particularly apostropheded how well probationary officials are currently working, and you have apostropheeded their professions and social educators, social workers, lawyers, psychologists, and that's it. So that's exactly what we're doing at the beginning when we're thinking about probation recognized in the Croatian education system as professions that have the highest touch and that have the highest competence to work with people in quality, so those who are convicted and who are in the digestive system as users, who need to be rehabilitated and who need to be re-involved in society. With that, we can go back, but I think every time we pass a new law that we should move forward. So this amendment you really take as a step forward, as something good, a good advice that can really contribute to all of us is, it's really kind of incomprehensible to me that, I really wish that I could really commend you in that sense and that I can say, you really, you know, that's what you've recognized and said, these professions, these are those interests that are really competent to do, but not in this case right now, I understand you've been following the advice of the Attorney General, but you've been taking a step back, you've been going towards the worse, you're actually a job probationary, which is of particular interest, as they say in the law, a special interest in the Republic of Croatia you've put into the hands of people who don't know it. I'll explain it a little bit later, and I believe you'll recognize it. So, these jobs, I'll especially point out, these jobs are being done with the aim of protecting the social community from the perpetrators of crime, its resociation, its reintegration into the community, the impact on the risk factors associated with the conduct of crimes. And now Article 4 you have put all social, humanist profile experts in an equal position so that they can carry out probational tasks, and should I say that it really is a professional and extremely demanding and sensitive business that is closely specialised and focused on achieving the purpose of criminal and legal sanctions, in fact in the broadest sense. I'd like to point out another fact. Yes and international documents, the Council of Ministers in European Prosecution Affairs underlines the expertise, competence and professional capacity of experts working with convicts in the framework of trial sanctions. And that's why I think it should really be implemented in our Croatian, legal framework, that is, in this law on probation. I'd like to make another point, and then I'll put in another comparison. Probation officers in Croatia are just these professions that we cited, social pedagogy, social work, psychology. What has everything, like social pedagogy, which colleagues listen to, e.g. Penological rehabilitation, then theory and methodology, listen to the theory and method of sampling, for example. a which is targetedly engaged outside the institutional treatment of adult offenders, as well as other cases in this area, for example, criminology, pentology, pentological rehabilitation, pentological psychology, etc. In the context of social work, in addition to other colleges, we have, for example, criminology, social work in a penitentiary institution, alternative measures towards perpetrators of criminal acts in the community, prevention of delinquency, resociation of persons of delinquent behaviour through community work. You've heard now that all one social pedagogue or social workers during their studies, which all competences, which all knowledge acquires. Now tell me, I'll read it to you now and who all belongs to social humanistic sciences. For example, can it be an economy, does an economist acquire knowledge of trial? Or working with prisoners or convicts in some system, does he get it? Politology, sociology, kinesiology, information. Of humanistic, all languages, indology, Czech language, literature, history, anthropology, archaeology, so religious science. So now tell me, we have another situation, because this article now, by amending this article, you have put in a completely equal position, completely equal, because it's put in place "you", so there's no such thing as exceptional, although I disagree and our amendment goes completely towards eradicating socio-humanist sciences, but it was at least exceptional, and you are now putting it in a completely equal position. Therefore, if the competition occurs, the parallel social educator, the lawyer and archaeologist, and let's say that the archaeologist is the child of the deceased defender, will at that time, therefore, the archaeologist in this situation take precedence over the social pedagogue and the lawyer. I ask you and ask you to think about this situation, because this other law is really lex specialis and it gives priority and it's okay, it gives me an advantage, but we must, therefore, this House, so you who propose the law, and we as the House that makes this law really think about all this, admit maybe that we made some mistake and make something that is good for this law and for probation or just let it all go so maybe let this one, this one situation happen, this one case, and it's possible, because it's possible, the law, the law, it's a theory. All the rules you're going to make on this, you're going to have to pass on this law, aren't you? So it really seems to me that this is not a good provision, that it's not good, because we're really going to bring into a very strange and strange situation if they come to us, here's people out of this example like I just said. We also protect the system, protect the profession as well as Milenić said we will do something positive and positive because we are taking care of who is being educated for certain jobs and let us really give these laws, determine the framework in which those who are most competent, those who have knowledge and those who will do best for both the community and for and in this particular case and for those who are punished but for both the whole family and the whole community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100990	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Celich.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative Alfirev would agree in a large part with this debate that you spoke of and with this remainder of the article of the eighth "the other social and humanistic sciences that extends greatly," but I will remind you of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy where you were the ones who advocated that indolgicators, Egyptologists can wear and acquire the title of psychotherapist, so I ask you, however, to take joint care of expertise, I think there is also a need to specify what activities these are, which are the professions of people who have daily experience working with people who have certain disorders and in this sense support you, but here I am saying then we need to be consistent in all the laws and to advocate for the benefit of the profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100992	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100993	Thank you, Vice President, Col. Celic, for speaking to us in the sense that for psychotherapy, therefore, there are also professions and people who, therefore, are competent, who have acquired competences and who have had a high degree of expertise, who has passed an additional study, an additional study of pedeutics, so, specifically, therefore, he has laid down all of those additional colleges that are needed, which complemented means that he will acquire the basic knowledge and then be a psychotherapist for a full period of five or six or seven years of one of the psychotherapy directions or education. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100994	Let's not change the attitudes of this guy outside, this guy or part of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you mentioned the defenders here in one context that I don't think we should mention here because the Defense Act, or in these cases, refers to a defendant having the same competence as someone else, then has an advantage but no, not otherwise because he's a defense attorney. So, come on, don't let us discuss this in Parliament anymore. The other problem is today when you go to all high school students, colleges say the knowledge you do today you don't know what it's going to be, give at all that knowledge and how it's going to be in five, ten, twenty years, other words today people in primary education, college have from one area, graduate studies from another, Ph.D. in the third area, so here we have a problem with how to use these skills and those people so that the law doesn't be limiting and not imposing legal solutions to be....
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100996	Thank you. Here's your answer, colleague Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100997	Thank you, Vice President, my colleague Tudjman, I don't think so. So I think it's really clear that the Defense Act, so I'm really putting it in context because it gives, it doesn't talk about competences but under the same conditions, and if something in the Law is on equal terms, in this case, it's under equal conditions and social pedagogues and social workers and socially speaking archaeologists, under equal conditions not on competences, then it's really going to have an advantage, and I agree that, in any case, the defender has an advantage or a child of a dead defender. What I will agree with you is that life-long education, education, is extremely important, but in this case, it is difficult for an archaeologist or someone who has completed ideology, for example. that they will now gain such competences to compensate for what the social educator or social worker has.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100998	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you, thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u100999	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, as far as the Prosecution Act is concerned, it is welcome, although I personally think it should be upgraded with many elements, especially those retroactive. So, in our society, there are many who should be in some new trials so that they can be controlled not to repeat what they have already done and for what they have been appalled and for what they have been forgiven. There comes the Holy Ones, and many of us will go to the graves of our loved ones, and at the same time there are witnesses of that time and everything that has happened and witnesses are what is visible in the 13th 10th of the year that they have sought justice, punishment, sanctions, and yet it would be more desirable for a trial to be applied to those who have already committed something that is the truth of what I'm talking about, I will read here the conduct of some of the abolized, who are forgiven for too much of it, and who repeat it too. So in Pachetin near Vinkovac, the Croatian place mostly populated by the Serb population, there was a Croat, by chance the Croat was my friend, his name was Ilija Shamukic, who, meanwhile, passed away without seeing justice or welcoming it. What happened to Ilia Shamuki? Elijah, a good man in the faith that he could live peacefully, even in such a place, believing in co-existence, believing in good people, bought a house in that village of Pacettin, and only wanted to live in peace, alone and welcome a peaceful age. But what happened to Elijah? One morning he arrived, and on his house he saw a series of graphites that wrote a letter of hate, which ended and an epilogue that we would follow. Therefore, the County State Attorney's Office in Vukovar, on 6 October 2015, following an investigation against Radenko Rasic for the criminal part of the violation of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 349, the Penal Code and the criminal part of the public inciting violence and hatred referred to in Article 325, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code on this State Attorney's Office, as a matter of fact and local jurisdiction, gave the file in question for the purpose of making a decision in relation to the offence of public inciting violence and hatred under Article 325, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code. In a special report in the section which has been reported for the offence of public inciting violence and hatred from Article 325, paragraph 1, the Penal Code reports Radenko Rasic that on 5 August 2015, around 12:30 p.m. in Pačetin on the façade of the family house owned by Ilija Shamukić, in the street of the Nudić brothers 8, the red light spray printed graphics in latinic letters This is Serbia, moving Ustaša, drew a cross with 4 keys in which 4 Cyrillic letters S were written, and on the metal yard fence printed with latinic letters written by Serbia, sign X with a painted picture of smiles, smiles, smiles, and on the entrance doors of the courtyards, fences, he drew a cross with 4 fields with printed latin letters. The rest of S. From the content of informed talks with Jovan Rašiči, it was not important in the words of the words of the words of the words of the words of the words of the family and the words of the words of the words of the words of the words of the words of the words of the words of the words of the Croatian, which are not to the words of the words. This is happening in Croatia, it happens from those whose war crimes have been forgiven, it happens from those who have not endured sanctions for the most severe forms of armed rebellion. I could talk a lot about war crimes, war criminals, who daily walk the streets of Vukovar and other places in Croatia among their victims. The fact that in Vukovar more than 20,000 people, who in their peaceful, democratically allowed protest have shown what they think, and that this trial would be interesting to carry out and to those who have been forgiven for what they have done against the Croatian people. I wish it could be seen, that they were not, like, this gentleman on the same path of thinking, thinking and ways of co-existence that they advocate in Croatian society. Ilija Shamukic is gone, we are left to light a candle for him, and let the gentleman enjoy the graces of Croatia without trial, without sanctions and without all that in democratic normal states citizens have the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101000	Thank you. We'll continue with an individual discussion. Next up is colleague Ivan Celic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with his associates. It is impossible to talk today about this final proposal of the Law, not taking into account the protective measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment against addictions prescribed both by the Criminal Law and the Criminal Law and by the Law of 1 January 2018 in the Law on the Protection of Family Violence. The national strategy to combat drug abuse for the period 2012 to 2017 has defined as one of the objectives of developing and designing trial jobs for perpetrators of drug abuse. We have a new National Strategy to combat addiction, where all addictions will be included, not only drugs, but also these socially acceptable, such as alcohol and tobacco, but also these new, non-substantiative addictions, such as gambling, which will unfortunately also be potential candidates for performing the jobs provided in the probation office. Recognition of the potential benefits of trial measures and sanctions is very important by judges and state lawyers because it will increase the number... measures and sanctions in general, which we see as the last years in the Republic of Croatia tend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In working with addicts, the probation service is largely focused on cooperation with providers of various forms of psychosocial treatment and addiction. As I have already mentioned, it is very important to highlight this dual role of the digestive offices, therefore, apart from supervision and control, it is important to take care of rehabilitation and social integration, i.e. rehabilitation. And here too, it should be pointed out, therefore, that this is not only about perpetrators of easier crime where occasional control is necessary, but also about perpetrators of criminal acts, where intensive surveillance is assessed for a certain period. However, these perpetrators of serious criminal offences are not sufficiently supervised, because if this surveillance is to be intensive, it will often end with the realization of prison sentences, so it is very important to take care of the term aspects and motivations, the sustainability of addicts within the framework of their necessary and appropriate therapeutic and other programmes. For drug addictions related to criminal acts, it is generally the case with people with complex needs and multiple risks, so drug addicts are not only a medical problem, because if the system of treatment for addicts is of quality at the level of the state, in this way we will reduce the crime rate, therefore, of all criminal acts, thus reducing the prevalence of certain viral infections, we will reduce crime and violence and we will lead to overall positive effects, which will be realised, which will happen if the opiate addict, who very often makes the penalty part, is adequately approached. In the development of the probation service, a special instrument has been applied, and I'm not going to talk about it much now. Certain predictors of the likelihood of re-initiating the crime and the risk of serious harms have also been identified, and those two who point out are accommodation and drug abuse. As for therefore, situations where perpetrators of criminal acts, we have two situations, so the perpetrators of the criminal bodies, for some reasons, can minimize or even deny their addiction to shorten treatment, while on the other hand, they can falsely exaggerate their addiction and need for treatment. Most of the time, it's about resellers, who want to carry out milder sanctions. We also have situations here, when these resellers, along with certain educations of those who defend them, try to show them innumerable, to end up in forensic psychiatry, and not in prisons, and that definitely poses a certain challenge. When I was talking about changing the criminal law, which should be considered, there are certain positive things again, negative things. As far as the facilities of the therapeutic communities in Croatia are concerned, I think they are sufficient at this point. However, there are certain problems in certain countries, where, in fact, this drug mile, that criminal mileage, takes over the treatment communities, and thus, in general, this therapeutic aspect is lost, so it is very important to monitor, therefore, the competent ministries that would allow such abuses and should then be specific to which criminal parts are being committed. So, if it was a reseller, then that dealer, he certainly wouldn't go to work at the end of a prison sentence in the therapeutic community. It's important to take data from the sick person himself, from the addict himself, but it's also important to collect hetero-amnestic data, and I would like to commend there, therefore, this digestive information system that is abundant with a number of information, so that those who repeat and re-emerge in the probation service already have sufficient information. information that can then help us to individualise this program and adapt to every potential user. There are 4 special features for treatment programs, so that's the appropriate length of intervention, it's supposed to be 3-9 m. A high level of structure, namely addicts lack a framework and that's why this high level of structure, flexibility, let's say I started working on the addiction department as soon as it was the first... on illegal drugs, I thought that patient should be kicked out of the ward immediately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After 15 years of experience today, I don't think that's necessary. So again, the individual program and that kind of flexibility and regular evolution, the regular evaluation of treatment. I think the assistant minister and Anna Spero have done a lot to develop this probation office and access all those psychosocial measures from the motivational interviews that were introduced to the system, rewards and penalties. There is, of course, a voucher problem, which exists in certain EU countries, but due to a lack of funding, we are not able to go to such measures at this time, therefore, the case management of the case, so again, as colleague Alfirev has already spoken, there are specializations by task, i.e. by type, by category of risk, by type of criminality or by type of necessary intervention. So, if we consider, if we have in mind a rehabilitation and reintegration segment of the work of the probation service, it will contribute to a number of expressions and other measures and resolutions, except for the work for the general good at freedom which is now the most pronounced and implemented. The work of the probation service also involves respecting the legal procedure to meet high professional standards for the social integration of the perpetrators and the protection of the community, which at the moment makes the Croatian Probation Service very professional, reliable and useful partner in efforts to overcome the problem of concrete drug addiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101002	Thank you. We have three replicas, the first is colleague Zeljko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101003	Dear colleague, if the subject of the judiciary, I'm surprised by some things, I said this morning, 20 years ago, Chile digitized public administration, everything's transparent, 20 years ago, what are we waiting for here? Also, where are the simple laws to remove those laws that generate corruption? Where are the night courts, we're saying we don't have personnel, so that's... We have a country of 4.5 million people, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand this at all, why we complicate things, it's 30%, Croatia has a grey economy, twice the EU standard. How can someone have a country of 19,000 companies without any employees? How can these companies get involved in public affairs? If they're not operational,... capable, I don't understand, it's just one and who makes these laws, are these people even capable of doing it? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101004	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Glasnović, you have been talking here about some broader context of the judicial system, and I am experiencing this final proposal of the Law on Prosecution as a kind of judicial reform in which people who need it will be helped, so with this law, to enable them, apart from that supervisory role, to rehabilitate and social integration and to become full members of this society tomorrow, with as much functionality as possible in our society, in our local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101006	Next replica, colleague Uncle Angelko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101007	Thank you very much. Comrade Celić, you have really had one quality discussion, you have touched a number of issues related to addiction, but I think that perhaps a more preventive action should be done primarily through the media. It means sending messages and even balances as you might say, court practice. It's amazing to me that someone gets caught with a few kilos of narcotics, a couple hundred thousand euros and gets literally peeling potatoes, and someone gets caught with a couple of grams,... Maybe for personal use, he gets a prison sentence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, maybe you should take care of that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101008	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101009	Well, that's a very delicate question, so from case to case, and I hope there are also those who educate within the Justice Academy but also generally within the Justice Department. It's a big area, I'd agree with you that it's the maximum of what prevention needs to be thrown at, and there are public health institutions of crucial importance, so it's not just mental health experts, psychiatrists, psychologists, but there's a whole series of interdisciplinary, a whole series of experts, but still not seeing the MUP as some kind of repressive apparatus in that case. And these individual cases, unfortunately, we've heard over the past few months some very discreet debates, also if we've seen around the cannabis where it serves for certain purposes, so the man who found the 15kg of marijuana is represented as the one who took marijuana for personal purposes only and the police found him 15 kg of marijuana.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101010	Thanks, buddy. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101011	Thank you, Vice President. Coliæ, you, in your own, so now in this debate, have really pointed out all the complexity of the probational work performed by the probationary officers and one system that is truly remarkable and sensitive, you know it yourself through your work and have mentioned how important and sensitive it is. Otherwise, in your presentation you are often and you rightly advocate that these very jobs, professional jobs are performed by professional and competent people and I know you are a man and from the influence of that, here I hope through this law now, at least you will advocate as you have advocated through some other laws, that even through this law we will get this legal framework, this law, which will allow the most professional, most competent people to work as probationary officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101012	Thank you, colleagues. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101013	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Alfirev, I will absolutely agree with you here, and if you submit that amendment, I will support this amendment because I think we should advocate these professional and competent people in all segments, and only so can Croatia go further. I'm going to take this opportunity here, so, as I work with opiate addicts of whom, unfortunately, most of them were in prisons, working with probation offices is excellent. So at the moment when there's a problem, that communication, if it's not possible by telephone, takes place in writing, all in favour of helping the person we need and here I think that this form, this new regulatory framework, will contribute to the fact that the quality of probation services is getting bigger and bigger every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101014	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Gordan Maras, here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are talking about this very important topic today and we are imposing certain things that are of course not logical, here amongst other things are these topics which have been spoken of by MPs before me, which is who may be probationary officials, or the fact that in Croatia we have few experimental officers and that in some way only in the bandages and that their number does not increase in relation to the number of criminal acts or objects that are processed through their system when we talk about 4-5 thousand cases a year, to hundreds of employees we have at this point, that means that everyone has 100 or more cases and normally that they cannot deal effectively and effectively with these cases in a way that we should deal with. But what I would particularly like to warn about in this debate is how these systems and developments were developed, or where there was also a sense of justice among other convicts or those who did certain crimes, where the examples were totally, in total disproportionately, let's say the pioneer of the trial in Croatia was Mr. Cobankovic, Minister of the HDZ of Agriculture, who, in the end, was judged by law in our courts, where the damage to the Republic of Croatia was almost 30 million kuna, received the penalty of swallowing potatoes and working for the general good and entered into the system, in my opinion, I would say, totally inappropriately. On the other hand, people are being punished by prison sentences and are getting sentences that in some way do not have nearly as much weight as that corruption that was at the highest level in Croatia's government, where public money was pulled out of the ministry and regional development, it seems to me that it was then called, where HDZ had it under political patronate and former HDZ president and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader and then peeled potatoes. On the other hand, you have a situation where some people, based on conversations, based on me, would say attempts that didn't even happen, get two sense sentences and go to jail. So on that side, we also see what's going on in the Republic of Croatia these days. So there is a strategic partnership between Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and Mr. Milan Bandic, so we have the purchase of parliamentary representatives in other political places of certain people, which happens in front of the eyes of Croatian citizens, where it falls into the second plan of justice, the desire for justice, faith in institutions, almost daily. So what I'm saying here is that we have an abnormal situation in Croatia. So, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic's strategic partner is the mayor of Zagreb, Mr. Milan Bandic, who has been reigning in Zagreb with the support of the Croatian Democratic Community, who has blessed him with all these scams, political trades, etc. For example, the last one was the political transfer of Mrs. Puh to his club, where we all saw that Mrs. Puh's brother was employed in ZET, in a way that most probably no one else could be employed, and there's also a feeling that the mayor's influence solves certain things that should not be solved. We also have in your county, Mr. Vice President, the transition of an entire organization, I see that one of the council members in the county assembly has a desire to work in the library, so this is also how the will of the citizens is baffled and it lowers confidence in the institutions that it's simply not normal anymore. Sports facilities are being built, books are being bought, money is being donated to the citizens of the city of Zagreb, hundreds of thousands of kunas, and all of these people are here as a random rush to the Club of the Mayor of Zagreb, who in some way implements his political trade through the budget and through the money that Zagreb, citizens of the city of Zagreb, people who fill the city budget, do. So it is something that is simply inadmissible and almost unreal, as if from another world it is now a situation that de facto turns out that Mayor Bandic is the legislator of this law, regardless of what is sitting here Minister Bosnjakovic, the people who wrote this law at the Ministry of Justice, but that there is no such political trade, such representatives who have moved from political trade to one camp to another, including in the county, from which Minister Cobankovic comes have such examples. There's a day there's a gentleman called, he's an organisational secretary of the party, it seems to me a Bastalec, very agile in such activities in Zagreb County, there's also these crossings, here I hear now and in Long Village, that the mayor is thinking, the HNS's, to move on to that party again, so that's something we have to prevent and that's something that has to be strongly condemned, and it starts, believe me, everything, that the rehearsal pioneer was Mr. Cobankovic. If we had not had such a situation at the time, perhaps the mayor of Zagreb would have thought about whether to trade this politically, because who knows, maybe ending up with a potato-sniffing man, maybe it's the biggest sanction we'll ever get in life and we're all aware of the intransparency and strong, strong indications of political corruption we have in the city of Zagreb today. That people with confirmed criminal charges, meaning in Croatian courts, are acting as leaders in the city's headship, in the city institutions, that the gentleman who was cutting the passage to the mayor in Fascism Square, has also received the indictment in court, is now going to the court, allegedly his property located on the slopes of Zagreb's mountain, on Medvednica, so that is a society that has completely shut down and cast a shadow on the transparency of the management of the city of Zagreb, what am I saying once again, unfortunately, is in favour of HDZ and supports it for what? Because without such action, without such political intransparency and very likely corrupt actions conducted by the Mayor of the City of Zagreb or Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic would not have had a majority. And I'd say right here to all the MPs who would stand up to it. Here I am looking at Mr. Shucker and Kovac to say that they simply don't want to, they don't need that kind of support, and they don't want to participate in that kind of work at all because it simply doesn't benefit the Republic of Croatia. And then all of these topics that we talked about here a little while ago and the quality of the law and the probationary officers and everything that's related to it fall into another plan. Here, I'd love to, no. 1. to accept amendments submitted by colleagues from the SDP related to the profession, it is very important for probationary officials or teams, that there cannot be hired by people who really have little touch points but much more important that I wish in the Republic of Croatia that no one be a strategic partner to the HDZ and the Government, or who is at this point in most that collects MPs, is politically trading with public influence and public money. This is what I would like us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament to send this message very clearly because then, of course, it would not be this paradox that de facto Mr Bandic proposes this law to the Croatian Parliament. So Mr. Bandic suggests a law on probation and we all know what he draws and draws his influence from. The only thing that makes HDZ, namely Mr. Plenkovic with a smile, unsuspectingly allows and apparently I say once again, a strategic partner is no longer any other politician in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Plenkovic, but exclusively the mayor of the City of Zagreb, Mr. Milan Bandic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101016	Thank you very much, colleague Marasu. We have 3 replicas on his display, first colleague is Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101017	Dear fellow, here we hear the words of transparency all the time, the rule of law, the headache of it all. What about the legal personnel? So we have more advisors in the judiciary I think than there is a Chinese court there in the 15th century. Why didn't you make those simple laws? The cancer of the Croatian wounds is corruption, corruption is the cancer of the Croatian state. We've heard that here every year someone robs 30 billion kunas. Here, what about taking away the property? Is he the first Sanader to apply to? What about three to ten, you had time to make those simple laws and penalties. Some countries 3 years minimum for receiving bribes from officials such as The tax administration comes into the field, this guy's tax evasion, this guy gives him 50 grand kuna and he pays him 6 grand kuna. It's human nature. What about the law on origin of property that's existed since the '90s and that's marriage, she had this law in preparation, and they knew everything she was blackmailing people, which is what you have today. The origin of the property, you'll solve everything and confiscation if it was illegal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101018	Thank you. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101019	Thank you, dear colleague Glasnović. So, let us get married, so you specifically as a representative in the Croatian Parliament could have prevented this from happening now non-transparently in Croatia that when we could have stopped the government of Andrej Plenkovic both in robbery around Agrokor and in non-transparent transitions from other parties to the parliamentary majority, and I would have said in the political trade of Milan Bandić that you had raised your hand and voted against Mr. Zdravko Marić, Minister of Finance at the first recall when the 75:75 vote was held. Your vote could've been 76th and then you wouldn't have talked about it here at all, some new government, some new election, would have had a much cleaner situation. So don't talk about marriage on that side. Talk more about what you could have personally done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101020	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101021	Well, that's... I think because it's insulting the MPs, it's pure ideology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've been in power since 2000,... Right wing and what did you do? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101022	My friend, you didn't call for an article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101023	So the article insults the advocates and brings out nebulises and lies, that's a total lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101024	No, no, no, no, easy, easy. Please sit down, so there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure we move on. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101025	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Maras, you're a very valuable advocate and an intelligent representative but to banalize the final proposal of the Law on Prosecution with some kind of peeling of potatoes, I don't think it's correct for you to also say that this is Milan Bandic's law. This is a law passed by the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Andrej Plenkovic. And I think it can stand by with many laws concerning this issue in EU countries. As for these other political comments, do you think that the people, the most people, would have come out of the SDP, do you think that the people of the SDP would have come out to see you working? What kind of politician could buy them? Without strong HDZ and without strong SDP, there is no strong Croatia without reducing the value of all other political parties representing their views. But the question of the coalition, we could talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101026	Thank you, thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101027	Thank you very much. A fellow cellic, you didn't say exactly, so the mayor won the election of two MPs, none of them from his party. Now there are 10 of them, only one colleague has moved from SDP's Club of Representatives, all others are mostly minority clubs. So on the other hand, when you look at a little of that charred society which is unfortunately the most interesting through the city of Zagreb's budget money that finances certain of their activities has led to what we have today in action. But it is not the point whether someone has come out of a party or not, but rather that the HDZ supports it because I have not heard a single statement that you are embarrassed to be supported by the mayor Bandic in this way in the Croatian Parliament, or what you are working with in the City Assembly and you rule the city of Zagreb. So these are the key things, I'd be embarrassed to be in that story at all, and I'd like to have HDZ resonate like that. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101028	And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Anka Dark-Tatitash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101029	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, my colleague Maras is responding to the replica you said something wrong. Mr. Bandic came to the Parliament with one mandate, the second term was from the Reformist Party, but let's put it aside, that siren's call too strong when Mr. Bandic is mentioned not to say anything. So, about his ability to manage and how he trades everything says budget, we have a report six months of budget realisation 23% is for municipal facilities, 86% is for the work of associations, me are the hottest two, financing golf course, playing golf in New Haven, and association of lovers of Christmas, but let's take it aside, it didn't start with Mr. Bandic today, so Mr. Bandic is doing it artificially in the City Assembly all the time, starting with 26 or 27, and until the end it grows. 30 and something. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101030	Answer, come in, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101031	This kind of political trade has now taken the most swing, so this has never happened, this is what our people in Croatia must hear and must be aware that politicians are not behind it and do not want such Croatia, they must trust their representatives, but when someone is silent here I hope behind me is Mr. Miro Kovac to say that this is not acceptable to him. If someone shuts up and says I fit 76 or 77 hands so let Bandic give us a little more time, we'll shut up and he can handle it if I don't know how he handles me, he'll amnesty tomorrow's voters. No, because believe me, gentlemen of HDZ and Mr Bandic are dirtying you, because people see that you are hand in hand that this is a strategic partnership in a non-transparent way of managing Croatia's political trade and corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101032	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Miro Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101033	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to measure things, I'm not a lawyer although, of course, this very interesting topic, an important topic, but I'm going to say something that I already told my colleagues and my friend Minister Bošnjakovic, which is what I would like to use at some next stage as many words that are understandable to our people, to our society, to our political community. So, we bring here laws for members of our political community, which is called Croatia, and we pass a law on probation. And what we want to understand, which is probation, is conditional and supervised freedom. Then let's try at some next stage using words that can be understood, expressions that people understand. Why could it not be the Law on supervised and conditional freedom, yes, if it is so in other countries in other countries it can also be in Croatia the same as we had the word autsoring.../incomprehensible/... these are all words that should not be used it is too complicated to have words in Croatian that are understandable to people living in this country, so let's be practical and use Croatian words, Croatian expressions because it is a normal thing to say it is so elsewhere in the world. And as for Mr. Maras and the political trade, that's always the question, you know the strength of your team. If your team were a little stronger if there weren't any transfers, therefore the responsibility is on you, set up your team will be less transfers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101034	We have one replica, it's a colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101035	Thank you very much, Mr. Kovac, it has to do with morale, and it has to do with whether you accept something, you were an ambassador to Germany there, CDUs would be disgusted to reject any thought of participating in power with the merchant that is here in this case, Mayor Bandic. If someone took an HNS representative, and then he worked in his utility company, her brother, so it would be something where they wouldn't even want to sit at the same table, let alone every Friday or Wednesday to vote and I'll see your finger on the green same thing when Mrs. Pooh and all of these we talked about earlier. So don't make you blush, I'm saying it for you you've seen the world and you know how it works it would be good for Croatian political culture to HDZ reject such strategic partners [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But unfortunately, we all know they won't. [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101036	Here's your answer, Comrade Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101037	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I repeat the team question he was your member, he was a member of your team, Mr. Bandic was not a member of HDZ, so keep on saying my proposal, so my suggestion is, my suggestion is yes You have your team and nice on your team put things together and boo less transfers, right? [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, please.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101038	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, what point?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101039	In 238, he did not speak the truth to his colleague Kovac, so his colleague Bandic is a member of his team but something similar to them speak Zagreb to a very similar accent, so given this, you can see Mr Kovac is not exactly lying to you, but I want to tell you one more thing running [[- She's fine.]] Political hygiene refuses yours [[Intruder: Good fellow Maras thank you.]] I've got five seconds left. [[Thank you, she's fine.]] [[Good. Thank you all right. It wasn't a breach of the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101040	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101041	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I thank everyone for the debate on everything we've heard, if I understood correctly if we were to exempt this part of the political trade where I've been long and on this side, and then I know that if I were to show myself now about getting out of the Rules of Procedure and I'm not going to allow it, but I'm going to stay on what was connected to this Prosecution Act. I have a feeling that the only point of dispute is this Article 4 paragraph 8 where we have opened up the possibility that other than psychologists, sociologists, educators will be even more important, and other professions. It's not new to this law, it exists in the current law of 2012. It says that it is extremely possible, therefore other professions. But if I say that the system is conceived so that there are 26 employees of social workers, 17 social educators, 14 psychologists, 18 lawyers, other professions, I primarily think of administrative references in the central office and that profession, so there are 25, only 5 are within the whole system actually coming from other professions. I have to say, we're going to think about this amendment that you've given, but the amendment closes a lot actually system and doesn't even open the front door. I don't think that by this concept that's here we're changing anything relevant to the system that it is, this system has proved to be immune to the fact that it's overcrowded by some professions that aren't useful in it, and so I think it can continue to function in this way, and in the bill of law, we've accepted the proposal of the Attorney General. So, regardless of the attempt to come here to some political effort that we've come up with the law for this or for that, the law is really designed to improve a system that's already decent, which is already good, I would say one of the better in the whole of the Union, where we can rarely spread good experiences and do just that in probation. This way, I would also like to thank our Legislative Committee, the Committee of Parliament, who has given us very useful suggestions that we have accepted, and to install into the text of the law and certainly without these suggestions would not be so well-conceived. Here's a thank you all for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101042	We have three replicas on your exhibit, the first one's a colleague of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101043	Thank you very much, colleague Bošnjaković, thank you very much for considering this amendment to Article 4. I hope that you, as Government and support it, will show that there may be some logical sequence, related to the profession and officials who will deal with it, and on the other hand what would be much more important, that you, as Minister, when we talk about this law and probation, send a message to Croatian citizens that when next time it is a damage to the state budget of 30 million kuna, when it is done by the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it will not be possible to pass with the peeling of potatoes. So that's what our citizens want to hear, that when it happens as it did with Cobankovic, who was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, apparently also at the incentive of HDZ Presidents and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, that when a man does damage to the 30 million kuna budget, he can't thus enter the digestive system to automatically get a peel of potatoes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101044	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101045	Thank you very much. As far as the amendment is concerned, we will see before the vote, but once again I remind you, such a solution in the law is from the time you were Minister of your Government in 2012, and we believe that it is not bad, that it should not actually close the door until the end but should leave as an exceptional possibility that someone from another profession, either what counterpart Celic said, can make a very good contribution from the therapist. And as for peeling potatoes, my message is, that really the damage that should be done by criminal acts should be taken away from the property benefit, but we're not going to solve it, you and I, the messages are welcome from our side, but it's a matter of court practice and any concrete decisions on it. In this particular case, I'm not going to speak, of course, I don't know all the elements or facts that the court has led to give the judgment exactly as it is, but the fact that it's a lot of turning public speaking in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101046	Next replica of colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Yes, in 2012, it was put into the Law "extremely" and it is nevertheless something that is different from what is today put "you", it is quite, here you opened the door wide, then it was still a little narrowed down. However, I would like to warn you that, already in 2009, socio-humanist, therefore, from the field of socio-humanist sciences, and that in 2012, this was then added "exceptional". I would also like to point out that, according to my information, yet one good part of the profession does not share your opinion, that it still agrees with what we have put into the amendment, and that we also have information from the field, therefore, protecting the expertise, quality and competence that work, so it is these people who are working on the affairs of probation officials who are on the trail of what I'm talking about, and not on the grounds that they open the door wide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101048	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101049	Thank you very much, therefore, if this solution has existed since 2009 and 2012, we out of 100 people have only 5 in the system that are from other professions, then it does say that the professional bodies themselves in employment make sure that those who are needed enter the system. And this has in practice proved to be an exception and I think that any actual governing body and someone who conducts the future competition will only take primate in employment those who can contribute. I think these fears of yours you're talking about, I don't think they have excuses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101050	Thank you, and the last replica, colleague Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101051	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Well, as stated, therefore, already in the system, and with the application of a provision that is like the current law, you have stated that there are only 5 of those who are some other social or humanistic professions and this says that regardless of this provision of the law, as you yourself have said, the system recognises what is relevant to it both in the system and in the employment. I think that if this provision were to be amended it should also take care of these five minimums if, or six, there are, because they're new then if they were going to change, they wouldn't meet the conditions anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101052	Thank you. Here's your answer. Nothing, thank you. This concludes the debate on the final draft law of probation, second reading, P.Z. No. 312. We'll vote when we get the terms, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101053	The final proposal of the Law on Prosecution, second reading of PZ No 312, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, respectable State Secretary at the Justice Ministry, Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101054	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, the government does not accept this amendment. The reasons, therefore, we believe that such a conjecture is essentially the same text that we have proposed, with the possibility that in the end it is possible that in these jobs, it is a trial staff, other professions, social education and humanistic science that can be employed. We believe that this proposed amendment would not be, from a formal legal or material legal point of view, a better solution, and that is why we have decided not to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101055	It's obvious, colleague Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101056	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, there's no way we can agree with this argument of yours, simply because this amendment is going to fix the system, that actually, in the sampling system, competent professionals work. People who in their professions have those who have acquired those competences through studies that are now allowing them to work with the penitentiary, it's actually a criminal system, and we have to respect that. As I mentioned in the discussion, can an archaeologist who is involved in humanistic science work as a probationary officer? He can't do it on us. The same way we could, in the Law on Education and Education, say in high school as a teacher or professor of mathematics, allow a social worker to work in the same way. Therefore, precisely because we think it is extremely important because this trial system, probational affairs are of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, because we want to protect the family, and because we want to protect the users themselves, those who are, who are serving the punishment for the common good, who are trying to get the best protection, to get the best rehabilitation programs, we have just decided on such an amendment and I really don't agree that the system is resistant, this amendment would make it resilient. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101057	Thank you. Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. I am now voting on the final proposal of the Prosecution Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 119 are for, 6 abstentions and 1 vote against the Prosecution Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101058	We continue with the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Hunting Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 339. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. which is related to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of this law shall apply. The amendment may be submitted to the Rules of Procedure by the end of the debate, whichever is the case. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. We have with us a representative of Proposer Zeljko Kraljevička, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, and I call for further explanation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101059	... MPs and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] The proposal of the Hunting Law regulates hunting and game management. The gamer represents a good interest in the Republic of Croatia has its special protection. And the establishment of a hunting ground is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The proposal of the Hunting Act aims to ensure sustainable management of hunting and game. On the other hand, remove the difficulties and administrative barriers observed in the application of the applicable law on hunting, primarily in the section relating to precision, legal provisions which recognise private ownership when establishing private hunting grounds, the precise normative arrangement relating to the problems of game damage and overall harmonisation of normative provisions related to the concessions of hunting rights with the provisions of the roof law governing concessions. The aim of this law is to ensure the sustainable management of the wildlife population in their habitats, in a manner and volume that permanently enhances the vitality of the game population, the production capacity of habitats and biodiversity, and the fulfillment of economic, tourist and recreational functions, and the protection of biodiversity and ecological balance of the natural habitats of game and wild fauna and flora. In relation to the draft Hunting Law proposal in the final proposal of the Hunting Act, following recommendations and objections received, and following further analysis, some differences also took place. And also in the final proposal of the Hunting Law, the list of the deleted species of the great crow. The legislator proposed the proposed amendments and the allocation of funds collected from concessions and leases of hunting rights, provided financial resources for the provision of hunting grounds and the financing of related insurance, protection and preservation of non-contracted state hunting grounds, the compensation for the damages of gamers in non-state hunting sites, the implementation of tenders for State hunting sites, the promotion of information from hunting, development, equipment, the modernisation of the hunting information system, the improvement, the development of hunting and the improvement of hunting management. And compared to the draft bill, the final proposal prescribed that the Croatian Hunting Union is carrying out tasks of implementing projects of insurance damage in hunting grounds, and other tasks given to it as public authority trust with this law itself. Compared to the draft of the Hunting Act, with the final proposal, the age limit for the outgoing of the hunting card instead of 18 years has been reduced to 17 years and 6 months. on the condition that persons under the age of 18 who possess a hunting card, until the age limit is met, may only participate in the hunt with written consent from parents or guardians. In view of the draft bill, in the final proposal, the provision relating to the authorisation of joint hunting for large-scale wild game without dogs has been amended in such a way as to prohibit joint hunting for large-scale game. And also in relation to the provision that was forbidden to hunt game at 300 m from the border of the settlement in the valley and the prigorje, that is, 200 m from the border of the village in the mountainous mountainous area, the final proposal of the law is the provision under consideration for the necessity of preventing the damage caused by savages that are common in the area concerned has been changed in such a way that it is now prohibited to hunt gamemen with hunting weapons 100 m from settlements except in cases where settlements with more than 10000 centuries are concerned. In the final proposal of the law in relation to the draft legislation, following remarks related to the provisions in which the owners of agricultural areas remain as one of a measure preventing the damage from game, the required efficiency of determining a good deleted word effectively, in order to avoid interpretation of the provisions that agricultural property could be achieved by way of the city. And it has also been amended by a provision relating to how the damage of less than 5% of the value of the agricultural unit is not compensated, in such a way that the provision now stipulates that no damage is compensated on the surface of the less than 5% of the total technological unit, in accordance with the specific regulation. Also in the final draft of the law, in relation to the draft laws, there were some differences in the consequences of the need for additional nomotechnical harmonisation, i.e., perceived ambiguities as well as in the interpretation of certain provisions, which were necessary to amend or correct. Also in relation to the draft bill, the final proposal prescribes that land users on which land is prohibited... The hunting grounds, within... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the year following the adoption of the Law, game protection programmes for the areas concerned must be adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bill further improves the potential for the development of hunting and game protection, the development of hunting tourism and the solution to the problem of space users in relation to game and hunting, while units of local regional self-government are expanding part of the current competences, i.e. enabling the implementation of part of hunting management business that has been exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, which, among other things, speeds up the handling of measures necessary for the prevention of wildlife damage, due to the possibility of more rapid insight and the adoption of measures necessary to address the damages suffered by both game and game. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia but the funds for its implementation are secured under regular activities. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101060	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. He is the first colleague, Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. This law tried to solve the problem of protection on personal cars and with 50% severance and damage count and after 3 years of finding the best solution, and that seems OK. The bigger problem, however, remains the damage to agriculture that is enormous and that are numbered in tens and hundreds of millions of kunas. I don't think that's where we found the best quality solution, so I'm interested in your comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101062	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101063	Here... Mr. Križanić on the matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, by law we have created a legal framework as well as how we will provide financial resources to address one of the fundamental problems of all those who share space today and these are largely our agricultural producers whose surfaces have both formed and established a hunting ground as well as our fellow citizens involved in transport, thus being exposed to major risks. We ourselves have prescribed and provided financial resources, it is 50% revenue and we have prescribed the purpose of funding with these means the insurance model of all the damages and risks that can be in our hunting sites and not on hunting surfaces, today we can already say that we have established a good model through the pilot of the risk insurance project on roads that we are together for the Croatian hunting alliance and... And on the other hand, as far as the damage to agriculture itself is concerned, we have created a framework and I believe that we will be able to finance it to the satisfaction of all producers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101064	The next replica of counterpart Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101065	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State. In fact, it was in the first reading, and I'm going to do it again, and it was about that article in Article 59(4) and it was about training hunters by the Croatian Hunting Union. So he will, along with these 17 mere universities that have the approval of the ministry, the Ministry of Agriculture and will now be made possible by the Croatian Hunting Union. So they will have public authority to issue and train hunters. I don't know if you know the fact that, with which personnel and how this will be made possible to the Croatian Hunting Union if it is already in the law in this final proposal. And another thing that we have received a lot of observations about is Article 67 paragraph 3 where it is said that the Croatian Hunting Union is allowed to issue a hunting card to the person who passed the hunting exam and turned 17 and 6 months old. Why six months?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101066	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101067	Here, thanks for asking. 17 years and 6 months are also related to the Law on Weapons, thus creating one practice at the level of the Republic of Croatia that a person who has turned 17 and 6 months can receive a hunting card. The weapon can be obtained from 18 years old and these 6 months can only be hunted with the presence of parents or guardians. And as far as the hunter's notion is concerned, we believe that the hunter is one of the most important persons in charge of hunting security and his skill and training depends greatly on his very security in hunting, which is the most important thing in our hunt and the pursuit of the entire activity around the hunting grounds and the Hunting Law. We believe that the Croatian Hunting Union has so far had verified and expert commissions that provided good hunters, good poachers and good hunters and I believe that this practice will continue through the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101068	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Anka Dark Tarritash, here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101069	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. The provisions of Article 31 have therefore been laid down as regards the allocation of compensation for hunting rights. Since these funds have been around this, so far, and since they have been deployed so far, I am interested in how much at the level of the year is about the means and how much of this is really used for the purpose that was defined by the former law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101070	Here you go, pal. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101071	The total revenue from the lease-based and concession-based rights is set at around 31 million kuna, and all the poachers regularly pay that part, these are the means prescribed by law, the purpose itself. And all the funds that have been used so far at the county level that were around 60% controlled audits within the county, our information, that the information positive, that they spent it in accordance with the regulations and this part that was related to the current incomes of the Ministry of Agriculture was only 10% and it was actually carried out in accordance with the envisaged activities, i.e. the eligible costs of the law. There were funds around, about three million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101072	Thank you to the Secretary of State for your reply. Next up is my colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101073	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's me in this law that's compared to agriculture as the Hunting Law, the worst law I've ever seen and worse than that. This law does not specify who owns the game. Says game is good for the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. A savage doesn't own an appearance in the Republic of Croatia. Why didn't we define it by law and it doesn't have the obligation of the conquistadors to secure the hunting grounds? Who will and how will pay for the damages that are not paid now? And with the very timing of the damages of a week for the claim of damage, I don't think many people will do it and it's all done on purpose so that no harm can be paid to the farmers they have. And I will discuss the rest later in this debate of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101074	Thank you. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101075	Here's a thank you for asking. Surely, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, you know very well the circumstances as well as I've heard you're a hunter yourself, and you know in fact how difficult it is today to secure a hunting ground in any insurance company in the Republic of Croatia. We had practice when hunting insurance was mandatory, but today we have a situation that insurance houses do not want to provide hunting grounds for the reasons that risks and damages themselves are far greater than the premiums that can be paid to the poachers. And we've come to the point that one shelf for one least hunting ground could already be between 100, 200, 300 or 500 000 kunas today, which cannot be paid out of membership fees or out of the value of gamers who own these hunting grounds because imposing on only one expensive vehicle that costs 100,000 euros would mean repairing the whole car if it's total, And there's no insurance company that... [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101076	Thank you. And the last replica of your opening presentation, colleague Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101077	Dear Secretary of State, you've spoken a lot in this introductory explanation of the damage to agriculture and the vehicle. So here's my particular question, do you have any idea how much damage there was in the Republic of Croatia to the vehicles, so what caused the animals? So total damage, do you have that kind of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101078	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101079	Unfortunately, no one can give you this information, so far in the Republic of Croatia there is no unique way of doing a list of damages. What was paid perhaps during the past year or before, is not only the value of the damage to the car but also the costs of court, interest and it is not a real indicator. If you ask what risk, last year we had reported 3890 harmful events where the damage is millions, but we believe that these are not all the events that vehicle owners reported, probably most of them have left the scene and as such are not recorded but the assumption that we have some 6 to 7,000 harmful events related to the vehicle's attack on game in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101080	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? My colleague Jelkovac and counterpart Panenic, if not then I open the debate, first debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club on the final proposal of the Hunting Act, counterpart Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101081	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues, fellow MPs, honorary secretary of state. When we talk about any law, especially this law regarding hunting, we need to understand that we are discussing something that is affecting a whole series of different interests concerning a particular space. So here we have as already mentioned here, both farmers and hunting associations, we have units of local self-government, we have a whole series of online circumstances that concern exactly a certain area, and we need to take care of that. This is what I point out for a reason because it's just like This law, I must also point out that this is exactly the approach of law-making through first reading discussions through the public involved, an example of how laws should be passed because it is just difficult to reconcile all these interests. What's crucial in these changes in this new Hunting Act, we have an example where you've often said, one already slightly shift towards decentralisation. In this case, and in this law, certain ingenuities that the Ministry has so far left to the counties. And that's good. We also have what we define in some way and the age of a hunter, or time, that is, the year in which he can pass a hunting test, so 17,5 years and up to 17 years of his life can attend hunting and hunting activities within a society with written consent from parents. When we talk about hunting, we should talk about something that is not since yesterday, which is not from a few decades but practically in Croatia's space, lasts in an organized way for over a hundred years. The result of such an approach to this economic theme is precisely the numerous state of game, its structure, the health condition of gamers, the strong involvement of hunters, hunting associations of the Croatian Hunting Union related to protection and rabies, of swine fever, of all those diseases that kind of penetrate into some space. In this way I speak for a reason because he often cried out to those members of hunting associations who see only with that rifle in the hunting grounds when some kind of shooting is carried out and do not see everything else that these associations and the Croatian Hunting Union are doing exactly to preserve and habitats of savages, to preserve the numerous conditions and to implement what the law has imposed. Therefore, the hunting economic base, the basic document adopted by each hunting society, and it is good that in this law, giving consent on a hunting economic basis or defining the limits of the hunting grounds has fallen into the jurisdiction of the county. Something that all hunting associations were dealing with, something which caused damage to many of our citizens and related to the damage caused by the attack of savages or vehicles on game, where all our courts ruled in accordance with the Law on Mandatory Relations that he was responsible for the damages of the owner of a dangerous thing, in this case the court assumed that the savage was a dangerous thing, not a vehicle or a driver who operated such a vehicle and regularly paid for the damages and by the very means of ensuring from the gamers in the beginning, the hunting associations were headed towards the insurance houses, the premiums were very small at that time, after the first year of insurance they started, not in 10, 20 or 100% increase already an example, and the Association of whose members, the first insurance was 5,000 kuna, but the next year they grew to 18 thousand kuna, and so on the orderly further. Here and the Ministry of Agriculture included the Ministry of Transport, but also the Croatian Hunting Union and began to face this problem directly so that in some way already, at this moment, for every commendation, and finally the goal and my desire personally, I was saying this in the first reading, is that this problem must simply be solved through another legislative regulation, and when providing a vehicle when registering. I believe that these 20 kunas, 30 give safety and the owner of the vehicle under these circumstances, are not too much financial burden, and it relieves the many associations that were in this part of them before bankruptcy, and some are even in huge minuses, since they are mostly financed from membership fees. As the Club, we will also submit one amendment to this Bill proposal, therefore, nothing that should be disputed, however, we have had a whole series of associations that have properly carried out all their obligations, so through the lease of the hunting grounds, through the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the hunting-economic base, so that we propose that for those associations that have knowingly, responsibly complied with all their contractual obligations, they have managed the hunting grounds in a quality way, that in Article 37, paragraph 9 is added to them, which would read as follows: "the concessionaire, and now the hunter who carried out the orderly, fulfils the measures and actions laid down in the Treaty on concessions, the law of hunting, the hunting grounds, which ceases to comply with the condition laid down in Article 35(1) of this Act, after the expiry of the Treaty on concession, the right of hunting may be extended in accordance with the provisions of Article 26. We've explained what this is about, but I think it's practically clear to everyone. Something that caused a whole series of riots, and it was also about putting a cormorant, whether game or not, in this case there were guidelines of the European Commission for species that could cause damage, so that the Ministry of Environment could determine the firing quotas. To be clear, hunting associations or hunters for this kind of game, they are neither interested nor have, in any way, ever had in hunting grounds, but we understand, understand, and it is understood that this species of game is causing great damage to fishers and craftsmen, so in this case the law imposes that question. As for something that should also be welcomed in this Law and it is good that the Ministry accepted suggestions, not only of the Croatian Hunting Union but also of the local self-government unit, but also of the famous border of 300 meters from the settlement. Therefore, the increasing pressure of citizens, as well as the units of local self-government, both on hunting associations and on the Ministry of the Interior, is the fact that the vast areas of Croatia, and unfortunately our rural areas, are increasingly uninhabited, the agricultural areas are increasingly grown with maquis, stonesmith, forests, that the game has already come close to inhabited places and in this case, and to the MUP in that part were tied hands. An example of us down at the coast where a wild boar with cubs came to a kindergarten in the center of Crikvenica, where a bear digs through the garbage cans in the tourist center, there on the move from the Adriatic to the Kraljevica, where it sets into populated places like Šmrika, Bakarca, running through the vineyards, in a way that belt prevented any activity in this direction from 300 metres away. As for that, therefore, the decision from 300 to 100 meters in settlements of up to 10,000 inhabitants is ok, 250 to 300 over 10,000 inhabitants. What I am aware of and I, are also aware that everyone in the Ministry, a particular problem that will continue to be needed in some way in a more detailed way, is certainly the damages that occur in agriculture, damages and responsibilities and hunting associations, but also the farmers themselves, the damage in that part in some way, which can cause greater problems for farmers themselves, and in the financial sense of associations. So, the aim of this law, what should be welcomed, is to improve all those items observed in the previous law, the aim is to improve and manage gamers in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, to standardize what belongs to hunting associations, the Croatian Hunting Union, because or not to recognise, the Croatian Hunting Union is a permanent organisation, an organisation that brings together tens of thousands of members, a hierarchy within all these is well-developed from the very beginning, so that everything that has been done so far through communication between the Ministry of the Croatian Hunting Union, the interested public is well appreciated. Here is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, which will support this law, and in addition, I am giving this amendment to the Club of Representatives and related to Article 37(8) I have read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101082	Thank you, colleague Klaric. Next fellow Alen Prelec is on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a colleague named Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101083	Thank you, Your Honor, the Honorable State Secretary with Associates, so here is the Hunting Act, which has been bad since 2005, I definitely think that the Ministry of Agriculture agrees with that, but all the hunters that should have changed it and frankly I also think that it is difficult to pass the Hunting Act that we will all be satisfied. It will hardly be satisfied that the hunters will be satisfied, that the farmers will be satisfied and protected by nature and animal protectionists it is almost impossible, but find a good measure in this together that we have one law that is better than that in 2005 I think it is good. Here's a colleague Klaric talking about some things that I'm also the head of the local self-government unit agreeing and there's a lot of good things that are covered in this law, first of all, here's a colleague talking about these 300 meters and moving 100 meters, and I think there's a lot of good things going on in this law that have been well defined, but there are also some things that I'm going to say now that I don't agree with. First of all, here's this new redistribution that changed with this asset by reducing 10% of the landowners' compensation by now is 50% I don't think it's good, and it's not good because here in Article 31(1), property owners without the right to hunt, are being touched by constitutionally guaranteed land ownership rights because this law provides only 10% return to land owners. In most cases, the County returned to hunters, hunting associations, and thus helped co-finance hunting associations, I think it was one good thing, but here it changes. If this law provides for Article 31(5), point 1 shall provide for game hunting, who and how will provide hunting grounds, and why, when we are changing the law because of compliance with the EU Directive, we do not take over some good practice from the European Union countries as well as the insurance against game traffic over mandatory car insurance policies, why we do not do so, and do not pay for a policy which, in the period from 1.4.2018 to 31.12.2018, is paid by taxpayers in the amount of cca 12 million kuna, and the total damage from the attack on the RH game on average is around 4 million kuna. I've got this data, if it's $4 million I asked the secretary of state if it's more difficult to really assess, but here's the information that it's cca 4 million kuna. So we pay 12 million kunas, and 4 million kunas are total damage, here I'll apologize if it has nothing to do with any truth, but from those who know a lot about hunting here I've got such information. We don't have the means to secure patients from an accident at the hospital, and we pay taxpayers' money on such expensive policies. Furthermore, Croatia's insurance is paid a policy of 12.5 million kuna or 12 million kuna without other offers, I don't think it's as transparent as it is, is that Croatia's insurance would say a Croatian company insurance company, but without other offers I don't think it's transparent and it's not good. And another great grudge I will make to this law, which is in Article 59(3), the training of hunters is carried out by the Croatian Hunting Union. I think that's where the Croatian Hunting Union is strongly favored, why I don't think that's how it should be. Namely, the term hunter in hunting practice implies a person with more than average knowledge and experience in hunting, usually it is about older hunters with a long-standing hunting internship on breeding and protecting hunters and savages. It's true that the notion of a hunter never came to life because hunting authorities instead of hunters use a hunter or another educated member of a hunting authority. Hunting tasks and tasks are normally carried out by a poacher who is also a much larger and more complex educational category than the hunting system itself, after all, a hunter is also a professionally educated person with a certain experience in hunting practice theory and is used by a hunting authority in regular practice as a leader or as a hunter. To give the Croatian Hunting Union to citizens' associations established under the Law on Associations of Citizens of Public Power, the issuing of hunting cards, now and hunting cards are contrary to the interests of the Croatian state, i.e. for the hunting of competent state authorities and bodies. Namely, all these jobs and tasks in the rich history of Croatian hunting were once done by the competent tax authorities as competent state authorities, regardless of the system of state order in a certain historical period. The Croatian state thus escapes huge funds and flows into the register of a non-profit association of citizens. To give additional powers to the Croatian Hunting Union to discredit all rights and wishes of other hunting universities in the Republic of Croatia, including HLS, among them 17 universities with the valid approval of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Agriculture, by training hunters made additional funding in the annual budget of more than 20 million kuna. I will only point out that the Croatian Hunting Union had 25 million kuna revenue in 2015 of which 8 million kuna was obtained. These are huge resources and huge interests, thus disabling the foundations of local competition and giving priority to only one legal person who train and implements human resources in hunting. The HLS, with this legislative proposal, puts in a better privileged position among all 17 hunting universities on the free hunting market because the laws without justification provide him with an additional Name of all Croatian public universities, as well as other legal persons and the license of the two competent ministries. Indeed, there is no legal or factual justification for the reasons, which is why only the HNS would carry out the training of hunters, if it is equally legal and if it has equal conditions in the hunting training system under conditions and in the manner determined by the Hunting Law and the hunting training rule. There's no valid reason for a well-known puzzling school to train hunters. Have more of that. The description of the hunter's concept further states that he will be responsible for carrying out and organising hunting in the hunting grounds, which is very sensitive, but also at the same time dangerous definitions, given that there is a real possibility of shooting, wounding of hunters, drivers, cattlemen and farmers. Even hunting dogs with searchful consequences, even in the case of conscientiously organized hunting groups. Who, then, would be responsible in the event of any deathous participant of such a common hunt. The president? Otherwise, according to the statutes, a responsible person, a director of a company or a craftsman? A poacher or a hunter? And whether even a trained hunter will accept that important and responsible part, jobs and tasks in organising and carrying out the common hunt, when he responds in the case of shots or deaths of the participants in the common hunt. The question arises what about hunting associations, which are not members of the Croatian Hunting Union and do not have to be? Whether the Croatian Hunting Union will blackmail them as it has been, and I have here one text in which the Croatian Hunting Union conditioned, here, I will read specifically the letter of the Croatian Hunting Union, says, members of the Croatian Hunting Union which did not pay the part of the collective insurance policy for the damage to motor vehicles concluded with Croatian insurance, are denied and all these hunting societies and county hunting alliances are all denied. And then we give the Croatian Hunting Union that as I have stated in my article. The 59th point 4 of the hunter training is carried out by HLS and the hunter is required. And we think that the Croatian Hunting Union will not blackmail any hunting society that will not pay membership fees or do what they decide. These are my two concrete, larger objections to this law, I have also referred in the procedure of amendments to this law where the possibility that the Croatian Hunting Union has an exclusive I would say in hunting and in this part, once, I will now read this amendment to art. 12. I propose that the amendments referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article may be established on an island or group of islands with an area of more than 500 hectares and on land owned by a legal and natural person a minimum area of 1000 hectares, with the consent of a hunting authorisation already established on that surface. So when someone already has a hunting ground, they have to give consent, to give it to someone else. These are some specific things that we have here, along with our maximum engagement, but also with the help of hunters and people who understand themselves more in hunting than I do, I am not a hunter, who gave me such suggestions, that this law, in order to be better in hunting, would go in the direction of having satisfied hunters and satisfied farmers but also environmentalists and animal guards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101084	Thank you, buddy. Next in the debate is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please welcome colleague Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101085	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. It's in front of us in the second reading of the Hunting Act. This law, we at the GLAS and HSU Club, have observed perhaps a crumb different from usual, and should be observed in the context of environmental protection and climate change. No matter what you read the Hunting Act, we all read that game hunt, we think you need to focus a little more on that part of the law that talks about breeding, which is about protection. Nature absolutely recognizes all the changes that are and are evident. Look at the end, we're in October, look at a little temperature, temperatures are somewhere around 20 degrees as well on the continent, as well as at sea. And those temperatures were absolutely 10 years ago unimaginable, we were already counting on the day of the dead, giving us flowers in the cemetery to freeze or not and temperatures were 20 degrees. So nature adapts, as nature adapts, and animals are actually adapted. Therefore, indeed, and when it comes to certain EU directives, when it comes to the specific breeding of animals and the increased quantity of animals, it is necessary to take account of it, and that is the part of us in this law, which is how we read, in which we grow, where protection, where we think that the master of hunting sites should be given an emphasis and greater spending of funds collected for hunting rights and in the way in which these funds are allocated. And I have to say that there, when they were designed and built highways behind it, that's what we used to do, but on the highway, you have those green bridges, which were savage bridges and bigger game bridges, which were primarily those bridges that were for bears. And the bears, therefore, are generally protected, followed by their ways in Europe as they go, and they are one of the first species that actually have migration, and I must make fun of them for sure in this assembly, beyond the context of this law, but in the context of some other laws, there were talks about the migrant crisis during the war in Bosnia, then the first ones that left Bosnia from large savages were bears. These bears, part of them ended up in Croatia, really improved the bear family at all, but most of them went to Switzerland and France. It went without a passport, it went without borders, and they actually took a serious step in terms of ecology. But the joke aside, this law in that part really needs to be looked at in the context of hunting management, should be seen in the context of breeding, in the context of protection, in the context of the overall programme of hunting economy development. The situation that we have today, and those who deal with hunting and those who deal with the protection of nature and the environment see the following, therefore, people are leaving us, agricultural areas are abandoned, agricultural areas are turned first into forests, and later they turn into de facto and into forests after a long series of years, there comes some new game, so some new animals are coming and it changes the picture and it needs to be taken care of when hunting sites are defined at all and when everything else needs to be taken into account. The second topic is the topic that you would like to discuss, and in that part of the law has given some frameworks, he gave some elements and if we had stopped at it we would have said ok, we have in the law a number of things and it needs to be taken care of, because it's a matter of moment, and it's a good story that we've all learned, which we're all talking about mongooses that have been brought in as another species to solve the problem of snakes on islands, they've absolutely reproduced from these islands, they've gone to the mainland, and they're protected, and now you're coming into some kind of imbalance of everything else. The second topic is the topic of sanitary fire, which is defined by this law that is defined for individual islands, is defined for airports and indeed if you have birds, it will be difficult for you to operate the airports and it is important that it is controlled not to turn it, you know, this road to hell is filled with good intentions, always some good intentions can be produced into something else. The next topic is the subject to be said and which is here with this law we must be correct and say, a small shift has been made, and that is a damage to the game and the damage to the game. So you've got double damage, you've got damage that savages do you have damage that's on the game. The game is definitely doing damage to agricultural crops, of course, but it's tightly tied to each other, if you don't have good management of hunting grounds, if you don't have everything you need, then of course it's the result of the damage that's on agricultural crops, which is, therefore, to those traditional damages that are from wolves in the areas where the wolf we have, so there's a series of things that are, but it's also the damage to the game that comes on, and in the first reading, just a lot of talk about the damage in the traffic that is happening, to the crop damage and to the moment of the damage, it's actually a crucial moment that someone after half a year doesn't remember that he't had any damage. And in that part, I have to say that at the GLAS and HSU Club, you would tell me, well, some steps have been made, but then we come up with those things that aren't like that, and those things that aren't like that every time you get to some numbers. There is no one from this pay phone who will not be advocating the option, for the variant of decentralisation, so no matter where he sits, no matter what context, full of mouth decentralisation, and then when we see the laws that come to us in the Croatian Parliament, then we see that we forget a little. So, where are the hunting grounds? In the territories of local self-government units. Where does the whole problem come from? It's made in the field. And then you get to Article 31 and says, the funds for the fees for the money rights are allocated, 10% of the fees to the owners have already, those who spoke before me, said whether or not it is so, says 30% of the funds in the state budget, and there in the state budget is lost, 50% in the state budget, at the expense of the Ministry of Finance for the financing of the measures adopted by this law and the acts adopted on the basis of it and 10% of the funds at the expense of the units, the county and the city of Zagreb for the implementation of the Law. I'm absolutely sure, if we really want to push for decentralisation, if we really want to strengthen that model at all, then we need it on the one hand, the means to give them something to manage and that there's something I can really do and that's it for certain jobs. You can't give jobs, you can't give jobs, you can't give tasks if they don't have the resources, and if they don't have the resources they can manage, they're going to fold their shoulders like this and say, "Come to me somewhere else." So that part is something that we absolutely think is not good, it's repeated by who knows which time, of course, there's always a dilemma, why, how, are we really going to use it to manage the hunting grounds, to improve everything that's involved and we come into this law to a subject that's important to insurance. The fact that no insurance house wants to secure hunting grounds is actually the problem of the ministry, the problem of the central government, the problem of that, therefore, no insurance house wants to provide anything where it will have any problem, but it is something to take care of, which is the next step and the effort to sit down with the insurance houses. Of course, they traditionally provide cars, they stopped providing citizens' property, because that's not exactly what I'm talking about real estate, I'm talking about houses and buildings because it's not convenient for them. As far as agricultural crops are concerned, they have also stopped ensuring this, but this is the effort that needs to be made from this place through individual committees, through the central state, through the same individual ministries, to sit down with the insurance companies and see what it is about. So if we have hunting grounds that intersect any roads, it's inevitable that there will be damage to the game, even when everything is okay, so in the night hours, remember I'm from the area where it's relatively, especially when I go night through one forest, and on the other side is the hunting ground, you see there, we have seen and not just the usual deer, but we have seen, you have boars with young people, it's common what can be damage and what needs to be done, and that's that insurance houses really in a certain way through a particular policy ensure it. Finally, there are a number of things in this Law that, especially when we talk about management, farming, protection, which is a step forward, but this Law has a number of elements and things that aren't done properly, we normally at the GLAS and HSU Club always think it's good to bring a regulation, that it's good to follow it, that it's good to give it life, so if it's seen that some things are wrong or are not done to the end, we already have the Law, we already have the Law, we know what the problems are and what you don't do but it's opening up or deepening, it's not a good way for us to support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101086	... My colleague, Anki Dark-Taritash. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll take a moment to welcome the students and teachers or teachers of the Rebeta elementary school who joined us. Well, hello and welcome to the Parliament. As a matter of fact, yes. [[Applause.]] We can now proceed with an individual debate on the final proposal of the Law on... On behalf of the Clubs, we now have a colleague Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, please welcome your colleague. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101087	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will say this, that with no great pleasure I will vote for this law, as will our club HDS, HSLS and HDSSB. In fact, I'm not a hunter as I always stress, I listen to my fellow debaters, who are hunters, I respect their opinion, and since it's the Hunting Law, for that reason I would always support something like that. But what bothers me, what I was talking about in the first reading, what both colleagues and colleagues have spoken about in previous discussions and what is likely to be more talk during today, is that this Law does not solve those problems that I, as a man, face on such duties daily, which people point out to me and pray for help. So this law definitely doesn't solve the problem of destroying crops for people living in the country. Especially in areas where there are smaller areas, such as this part around Zagreb, means some 50-60 kilometers, 100 kilometers around Zagreb, we know that there are small plots, that there are small areas and that they are impossible, even in force, and also according to the proposed Law to fence and protect them. And they're definitely forced to stop producing. We didn't solve this problem with this law either, and that's one dumpling in the throat, one problem that I don't think is well enough seen, and that wasn't enough desire to solve it. And any problem, if there's a wish, I'm confident it can be solved. These people are being punished twice. First, the state leased their land for hunting, on the other hand, made it impossible for them to protect from wild animals living in that area. It's just like that. And I'm afraid we're not on a good track and we're on track, and I'm asking the Ministry and the department to take another good look at what's going on on in the field and find a solution, given the amendments to the law, given to some Rules, regulations, anything, but that problem just needs to start to be solved. We're talking about very specific situations, we're talking about areas, I'm going to be like that in micro locations, we're talking about areas under Kalnik, the north side of the Cross, in the settlements of Chabrai, Batovac, Vojakovci Osijek, Military Kloštar, so people stop shining. I talk about it many times in this Assembly, I know that such problems exist all over Croatia and simply people in that part can't help themselves. It says here, the secretary of state himself said that insurance companies don't want to secure crops, they don't want to ensure the damage from savages, so really, here's the thing a colleague used to talk about, too. If insurance companies can't, if people can't protect themselves, if the Associations that have a lease there, hunting societies can't handle the compensation of those damages, let's find out, give me an answer. Here I am asking the Secretary of State to give us an answer who will protect these people, who is required? I think it's all going one way. The state has to find a solution, it just has to. We protect animals, we protect them in that law and handcuffs, and we don't protect people, it doesn't make sense, it doesn't make any sense. What I think is good, today I talked to my hunters there in St. Hubert Križevci and they tell me that it is now related to this part of the damage on the roads of the savages that this model where the ministry provides some 15 million Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Infrastructure 5 million, the Croatian Hunting Union 5.7 million that in some ways it is as durable to them but there is no guarantee that it will remain so, that it is now while Minister Tolusic and this policy. There could be some other policy tomorrow, some other minister, and then what? So that's where I'm looking, too, for the little secretary of state to explain how and how to get to that and how to solve it on some, to give security for some long time. You probably have an answer to that question, so I'm really asking you to try to explain to us how to handle it. I'm going to stay a little longer on the predators of the game, which is often the same word and which is already spoken of today, so it's about predators. It's specifically about handcuffs and their housing in populated areas. That's what I was talking about in my first reading. We didn't even solve it with this law. We at local level tried even to bring some plans, programs. Eventually, it turns out that these plans and programs need to be done, can make a hack, drive out the cuffs, and then take them to a different location, or drive them away 300 meters from home, and then you can, you can shoot them. How do you do that? I mean, we just have a problem. People who live and even in big cities, in the end you have foxes in Zagreb, you meet them. But here in my Križevci you can see the handcuffs running across the street in the middle of town at night. I don't think we solve problems here either, and we haven't solved that part enough, we haven't seen it enough, it's going to be bigger and bigger and we're going to have more and more problems in that part. There's been a speech here a little while ago, and I think my colleague Prelec talked about it in a lot of detail, so there's no need to explain it specifically, on my part, but I'm looking for an answer. Please explain to the Secretary of State why Article 59 is really regulated that the training of locusts is exclusively carried out by the Croatian Hunting Union while Article 73 is authorised by the Ministry of Legal Persons who carry out training and training. There's probably a reason, I don't know, here's a clear explanation, let's see what the reason is, and why it didn't also be possible for that part to be resolved as well as in Article 73 and not to be solved in this way. I have nothing against the Croatian Hunting Union, absolutely, even more I give them full support but I am quite interested in knowing how to answer the question when someone asks me why. Here I am asking you to really explain it in this debate today so that we can get as concrete a picture as possible. And just about the relationship between hunting societies as an association and legal entities, private individuals who are hunters of hunting grounds for economic reasons, so for profit. I don't think it's good enough by law to separate it. We can't treat hunting societies in the same economic way that I say some kind of base as some private hunter who has a commercial goal. Hunting society is a hobby. These associations barely survive, their membership is getting rash, they're getting smaller. We are today making them literally behave in some way with the burdens on their backs that this hobby, this love of nature, of animals, this desire to preserve the balance in nature in principle leave it behind. What happens if, in due course, these hunting societies are debilitated and there is a possibility that they will come and disappear, that they will practically cease to operate in some places at all? Who will be the one who will then maintain that balance in nature? I think that hunting societies as citizens' associations should be particularly defined that they need to make the law more looser and those who deal with hunting for profit so that it can be so economically complicated. It cannot be treated according to the same criteria. So I'm not a hunter, I'm not a member of such associations, but I'm very often with these people, and I know that this is a growing burden to them every day and that they're just slowly giving up on these hobbies and giving up on everything. Especially in this part if they have to pay the fines, if they have to pay the damages and no one is helping them, in which case they are really in one very bad situation because, in the end of the day, animals from their hunting grounds come to them from private hunting grounds, although it is good for them in that part if they have some shot but they are not doing it for any material benefit or cause of anything, it is not, these people up to it and it is definitely much more harm than it is used for that part. So here's a few remarks on the law, a few disagreements, I say we will vote for it, but I ask the Secretary of State to really explain to us these reasons of certain articles of the law and of certain illogicalities in my court that are in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101088	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. The next representative on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS is her colleague, Bozica Makar. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101089	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are talking about the Hunting Law, and how important it is to be seen by the first article of this law that is governed by this law. So this law regulates hunting and game management, which includes breeding, protection, hunting and use. And of course all of this has an economic, tourist and recreational function and a function of protection, conservation, biodiversity and ecological balance. There are different opinions and different views on this law, different remarks, different proposals. It is indisputable for all of us to agree that we all want to preserve this very biological balance and there is no dispute about it. However, everyone in his view observes how to do so. We also heard a lot in today's debates about what some representatives in the name of clubs looked back on. I have to say on behalf of the HNS Club that we highly appreciate our hunters and their opinion certainly needs to be respected because it is these 1,000 hunters' associations and more than 60 thousand of them that we care about our hunting sites in Croatia. So they're the ones taking care of that balance. Of course, we should also respect the opinion of the Animal Protection Associations, the Association for the Protection of Nature and the Opinion of our citizens. But I would primarily now refer to the opinion of our farmers and forest owners who also love game and are not those against savages but those savages are really doing damage, they are lords in those open areas and are actually together with savages every day. They admire her, but they also feel the consequences that so far have been very rarely compensated. We have a solution that is proposed by this final bill, quite well solved in many situations because, indeed, in relation to the first reading, many remarks and committees have been respected, but also by this representative. So I'm going to look back at what part of what we've had in our first reading, part of them is appreciated, not even though we consider it important and these changes. We consider it good to accept the amendment of Article 79, which provides for preventing damage in the hunting grounds where the decision on the first draft of the law really did have, however, almost all representatives of clubs and individually, and it was about the building up of land or parcels. We received an interpretation that this was not exactly foreseen in the first reading, so now the word removed is effectively deleted and the words that signify the possible means of use provided by the poacher are mechanical, electrical and chemical. We've all looked back on the specificity of these little plots of ours and what it really means to build them up. It's a problem if we take a solid fence on the side of the forest, because we know it's usually 10, 15, 20 meters wide, but we can use the others well, so there shouldn't be a fence, we believe that savages will accept that they won't enter those areas where protection is done otherwise. In his first reading, the HNS Club had objections to Article 66, which prescribed a ban on game hunting within a 300m radius of the border of the settlement. There we also shared an opinion, most of us that it should be reduced to 100 meters. We instructed all the reasons and respecting what was the opinion of the other ministries, which is the use of weapons near the settlement. It is good that this proposal is accepted and is now a new solution that 100 meters from the settlement is allowed, i.e. 300 meters from the border of the settlement of more than 10 thousand inhabitants in the valley and prigorje and 200 meters from the border of the settlement of more than 10 thousand inhabitants in the mountainous and mountainous areas. In fact, this problem is the most present in rural areas, in small settlements that most often do not have more than 10,000 inhabitants, although we have also discussed that unfortunately animals are entering such settlements because of the growing devastation of houses, plots and so forth. We regret that our proposal to amend Article 78 has not been accepted. The law we proposed to add damage to the property and damage to the forest and forest land. The reason for the ministry is that the damage to the forest and forest land is gone and cannot be given that it is a natural habitat for most savages who can do any damage and is its natural source of food. We at the HNS Club think there is no professional and no legal reason not to compensate for the damage done by game in the forest, forest and forest land. The argument that forests and forest land are exclusively the natural habitat of large game simply does not stand because this same large game benefits and agricultural areas depending on the species up to 10 to 80% of its life activities. That percentage is even higher if the use of meadows and pastures is observed. Agricultural areas for life activity there are even more important. We're wondering if there's going to be damage to the forest species of trees growing on the agricultural surfaces and having no forest status? No recognition of the damage to game in the forest and forest land could result in the effect of discrimination in terms of compensation for damage done according to the method of use of the cadastrian congratulatory and its parts, or of which of the kind of use of the cadastrian congratulation is concerned. There is also the possibility of losing the interest of the poachers to carry out any damage prevention actions done by game in the forest and forest land or take a hypothetical situation for all forest and forest land users in the Republic of Croatia to protect the last and first age classes up to the age of 10 to request a repellent from the authorisation holders. The amount of repellents would move in hundreds of thousands of gallons, which are only repellents, if we weren't talking about the rest. I note once again, we regret that you did not accept the addition of Article 78. We at the HNS club continue to believe that this supplement is necessary, however, given all accepted changes in relation to first reading and because we consider this law important and generally good and we consider it a major step towards the previous one. The HNS Club will support this law. But we hope that soon the procedure will be subject to changes to this law that it will not be 13 years before the adoption of a new or any change and that you will further consider our arguments and that you will put the recognition of damage to the forest and forest land into this new law. And I'm going to just point out the opinion of the attorney general, Laura Vidovic, who we've received, and this is about Article 49. We at the HNS Club have discussed this, namely access to information where Article 49 currently says that the production of hunting-economic plans and their audits must be entrusted to a legal and natural person who owns and an appropriate license of the Croatian Chamber of Engineers of Forestry and Wood Technology. And Article 2 of the same law: data on future management of game management from hunting and economic plans are publicly available through the central hunting agency and where it states that other data from hunting plans are not publicly available for the protection of commercial interests of a natural or legal person including intellectual property. We also believe that the data should be available from hunting-economic plans, that there is a possibility that certain data should simply be not as an integral part of hunting-economic plans but as some addition that is delivered and which is not then publicly available. Here, once again, the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101090	For participation in the debate also registered the Club of Representatives of the HSS on their behalf will speak MP Željko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101091	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here I will speak again here as an agronomist and as a hunter and as a peasant who suffers harm, however, to a very small extent compared to people who really suffer. This Hunting Act is just a continuation of the HDZ government's policies towards agriculture as they do, where agriculture is destroyed to the ground. This law only still helps to destroy agriculture and destroy those, the property of people who still live in rural areas that have not yet gone to Germany, Ireland or elsewhere where justice and orderly state rule. In Article 3, game is of good interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. Who owns the game in the Republic of Croatia? The RH isn't after this. Are they municipalities? Cities? County? No one owns the game. Dear God. He finds it difficult to complain materially and obtain material compensation for what the savage does. Private hunting grounds, according to the merger of more land, private owners can exercise the right to establish a private hunting ground if each of them has an area of no less than 500 hectares to meet this condition. So I ask you who owns 500 acres in Croatia? We have... So why don't we allow people who want to join together, have property and can reach a 500-hectare area to set up a hunting ground at 500 hectares and make it their private hunting ground? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But no, we don't give it to them, we only give it to the countess. How many people, here someone tell me, if the secretary of state can tell me in Croatia has a property of 500 hectares? Very little. I think we're just guessing the big ones again, we're again enjoying some new "Todorics". I'm asking you where the little man is? Where are the common hunters? Where are the little hunting associations? Apparently they have to disappear, they don't need them. The contract on the lease of hunting rights contains provisions and is now listed, none of which mentions hunting insurance. Why don't you mention hunting insurance? Why did the premiums get so big? Well, because the damage from the savages on the crops is so great that no one will provide or see that interest. And despite the many damages that have taken place, the fact that many hunters have used the ignorance of farmers and those who have crops do not know the Law and procedures in the Republic of Croatia, and the simple ones have not known their strength, and have never been compensated or exercised their right. And there are others, who have been tried for years, who knew that there was a need to make court security evidence and question whether they'd ever get damage. There used to be a provision in the Hunting Act, that mandatory documentation with the Treaty is a insurance policy. Article 28, the law on hunting rights ceases, thus also cited, again, nothing about damages, there are no conditions if the damages from gamers of certain poachers were done on crops of agricultural producers or citizens in rural areas, unless they had been fulfilled and depreciated, that their lease was lifted, in no single part. Disbursement of the lease, 10% of the lease for landowners without hunting rights. So these are the people who have their own hectare, 2, 5, 10, 20 land owned and they're going to get 10% of the rent. So do you know what the ransom is? There's a cashier's fee that's under the kuna per hectare, so she's 10 kuna per hectare, if someone has 10 hectares, 10% is kuna, 10 kuna is 10 hectares. It is not worth doing, nor is it a request; it is a laugh. People don't even know that they can do it and that they can look for that crumb they're supposed to get, but it normally goes into a mass intended solely for hunting development. So, their damages are done on agricultural crops on their land, they are not paid for that crumb, a fee that has been 50% so far, and they are still feeding and maintaining game because there is always a rash after the crop, which is good for the game, and thank God the savage lives on it. Unfortunately, here these costs require far, far greater than those crumbs that are given. And now there are a lot of things in this Law that could be discussed, but I don't have enough time to devote myself to these damages and damages. It says in Article 76, a poacher, a natural and legal person, whose gamer can cause direct property damage, are obliged to take all necessary measures to prevent the damage that savages do. And now there's a list of measures to prevent the damage from savages that should be working on hunting authority and hunting society, and I'm asking you who can control it? So no one controls whether the hunting economic base is done properly. Well, I bet 90% of the hunting ground doesn't match the real state of the field. It's clear to everyone, 'who's a hunter or a member of a hunting club or a hunting authority, knows why. To be abused during the hunt. So no one can control how much it killed itself. you have a smaller economic base, you have fewer obligations and you simply have more to do with the other part, the job. Article 79, and Article 80, means, embarrassing articles in this Law that directly destroy agricultural production and I am surprised to you in HDZ who will raise you on Wednesday's hands for this Law, that you do not realize that you are doing direct damage to the people who voted for you, who brought you into power, this article. Why don't you think this isn't good? Well, I'm a hunter, so even if I never went hunting again, I can't go through this injustice. I can't go over this injustice. Because the only responsibility and all the cost and all the trouble has been passed on to the damaged, to the farmers. It says preventing damage in hunting sites is ensured by taking the following actions, the damage is due in an appropriate manner and at its expense, as a good master to take measures of the authorised action and procedures to protect his property from such damage. So this good master who tries to have a good crop, that he has a good contribution because otherwise he can't survive, he has to suffer for all of this. Allowed stores and procedures are the building of goods, targeted protection of goods. I'm asking you how he'll look after it. With a dog? We'll get to paragraph 3, in 80 articles. If the dog does anything to harm the game, then he's responsible for the damage to the game. If there is a gun, you can't use it because it's guilty again. So he's like a good master, he has to do it all. He must drive out the game, he must implement agri-technical measures, he must set up electric shepherds, that is, all the protection measures he is obliged to provide for the ransom. And then people, who live in Banovina, in Posavina, people who aren't high educational levels, can't read these things, they don't even know what they're writing or they'll ever know, and they won't know they have to ask that conquistador, but the authority does them right, so they won't give them any of it. You know how I got the repellents? In a bottle of thick juice, fruit, something that smells like oil, no declaration, nothing. My colleague who set it up the way it's supposed to be, he had the biggest damage. The ones we didn't set up, the damage was at least three times smaller. Will each authority give the shepherd an electric protection? I've got 30 acres on 15 plots, 15 shepherds, 15 batteries. No, they won't. They can't even respect it in common hunting grounds. Because they don't have any income from the hunts they're making so they can even finance these means of protection. Some of them criticized me when I discussed my first reading. So I say to them, "People, so I speak for you, and you will perish, because you will not be able to honor this. And that's what's gonna happen. Hunting associations, where little people are going to fail because they won't even be able to honor this if they follow the law. But there's nothing clear about all this, whether they have to stick to it, whether they don't have to stick to it. Art. 80th, for the damage caused by game in the hunting grounds, shall be answered by the authorising officer if the injured party has taken action from art. 79, which is practically impossible at all. You set up an electric shepherd if you're lucky you got it, it's miles and miles of wire. Hundreds of steps, you have to cut all the grass under them several times, every grass that touches the wire makes the ground, empty the battery and doesn't work. What do you think those hours of work are with all the trouble farmers have to clean up? I don't want to talk about when you set up 15 batteries for how many of them you're going to find today, especially those who collect secondary raw materials, everyone knows where they are. And it's said to be in art. 80th century 3. for damage to game caused by art. In 78th of this law, the perpetrator of these activities, i.e. the owner of things or animals from which such damage arises. So the dog you might be using, people used to tie dogs in corn to keep them safe. If they happen to cause any damage to the game, he'll answer. People go crazy about how much damage they do, so maybe they have some kind of weapon, they'll shoot. When a man comes to despair, when he lives on crumbs, then he's sick of this kind of behavior, and he's sick of the state because he doesn't get who I am here 15, 16 thousand kunas, he lives on crumbs, of that corn, of 2-3 acres, of a cow. If there is damage to the game, the authorising officer shall not initiate the compensation procedure referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article, the paragraph and the damage to larger scales, such procedure on behalf of the Republic of Croatia will be initiated by the competent State Attorney's Office. So the game is protected in this case. That poor guy's gonna get hurt any way you turn around and he's gonna have to pay for it. Art. 81st is not compensated for the damage that savages do if damage has occurred on a surface less than 5% of the total surface area of technology. So if you have 200 acres, 5%, so listen to me people, it's 20-30 thousand kuna, so who can at this time and the state of agriculture give up 20-30 thousand kunas of any income because 5%. I guess now you're getting high on these insurances that don't take any damage if less than 5% of the crops are caused by weather accidents, so they don't pay, so now we're going to hunt. Here, bravo. Thank you for doing this to people. The farmers are bitter here, I would like you to sit with them somewhere for coffee, so you can hear what they're going to say, what they think about this law of yours, but I can't even understand colleagues, as Mr. Hrg has just criticised the law, he is aware of how great these damages are, how much his fellow citizens will suffer damage because he also comes from rural areas, and eventually he must support this law or support it. So I appeal to your conscience, gentlemen, for MPs and you who are even hunters, so remember that it's not just to go hunting on Sundays, shoot or shoot, eat a stew, and don't even think about how much damage some people have suffered because of that possibility of yours. They may not even have the chance to have a gun. So, I appeal to you, do not support this law, correct this article. In 79. and make it for the benefit of agricultural producers, not for the benefit of the Croatian Hunting Union and those fat asses sitting on the checkboards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101092	Thank you. Representative Josip Krizanic reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, sir... Secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In front of us is the Hunting Law, which should have resolved quite a wide problem observed over the past few years. It should improve relations in breeding and protecting gamers with the aim of preserving game and protecting nature, as well as improving hunting as economic activities, as well as links with the activities of agriculture, forestry and tourism. After my predecessor's debate, I'm not a hunter, but I am a farmer, and I'll try to be measured in the presentation and immediately wonder if this law is better. I wonder if he's better and I'm asking myself what the solution is, and I've thought a lot of times about agricultural damage as president of the basic disaster commission. So, this law tried to get close, reconcile the position of hunters, the hunting of officials on the one hand, farmers and private forest owners on the other hand, and the Animal Protection Association on the third hand. Too bad the damage is the biggest problem in this law. The damage paid by the poachers, the hunting societies are growing every day, crossing millions. And in that way, no more hunting societies can survive. The case law is such that all judgments are made at the expense of the poachers. And the damages are enormous, they exceed the amount of money and they come back again. I'm asking myself a question that's a solution, so maybe he'll give me a hand, my predecessor colleague, who put it before me. So after examining the damage claims at the level of the Republic of Croatia and we are, I am one of the representatives, who proposed additional vehicle insurance within 10 to 15 kuna. Now some analysis has already been made, and we also have the assurance of the legislator, the secretary of state, that it will be proposed within the next three years to measure auto-security to get an indicative amount by then from a 50 % lease of the one that will form a fund from part of the funds allocated to landowners who did not ask for it. And that's what I'm asking you, I was the head of the community, I know when we got some means to share people of one, two or three kunas, then I was sick of Jesus, share it in general, rather than give anything, now I'm asking you what you and ten kunas would share with your farmers to settle their land. As far as agricultural damage is concerned, it is clear that the damage is proposed to take measures and actions to protect its property against damage. In my previous presentation, I also talked about how it was very difficult to do this in the same way and the article as it was so far, the de facto fences, because especially in Zagorje, especially in this northwestern Croatia where small possessions are not possible to do. They changed that, the word was removed effectively, so it's thinking about doing everything that can be done. When we talk about agricultural damage, this legislator is alluding to prevention, especially as far as black gamers are concerned, and it is a good thing that the mayor can prescribe an increased shot at that time can be resolved much faster and done. Except for the way in which the compensation is resolved, especially in agriculture, which is largely unsatisfactory in this law. They are not satisfied either by hunters, nor by hunting associations, and particularly by farmers, in other segments of the Law, however, tried to reconcile the interests of all stakeholders in one place. Many proposals have been respected, especially by representatives, but also by a proposal from the public through a public debate, and you have seen that I will, for example, prescribe a clearer, more clear, abolishing the right to hunt who twice does not pay or pay the compensation more easily than prescribed by the extension of leases and the obligation to submit a hunting plan and management plan. A more detailed clarification of the terms of the authorising officer or the contractor is a more clear criterion for granting concessions as well as a ban on hunting and hunting. It is clearly explained here, which means five percent of the value that you were talking about agricultural areas in damages, that this applies to the entire agricultural sector, that this refers to the technological unit. They were well-defined, but I thought I had already talked about how it should be, it would have to be registered in the MUP system, or in some other way to ensure that it exercises its powers on the ground, given that hunters are not recognized as official persons or enjoy special protection of the law in their work. The law prescribed a ban on hunting for all game in the 300-metre band and it was changed precisely to the influence of MPs, from the settlements, which was inappropriate and potentially dangerous for the population and we talked about why it should be changed. Uncontrollable reproduction of foxes, kunas, forms and the expansion of feral pigs in that belt threatened the entry into settlements and the transfer of infectious diseases to domestic animals through which the disease spread to the population. Furthermore, populated areas in rural areas within their cadastrian borders rarely had a growing agricultural land, gardens and orchards, which, along with that 300-metre belt, make up an additional natural environment in which the game was kept and moved unhindered, without being able to carry out the secretion. This was changed by the final bill to prevent damages that were common in the belts right next to the settlements. Allow to hunt game within 100 metres of the settlement's borders instead of so far proposals of 300 metres from the border, in the valley and 200 meters in mountain-mounted areas, except for settlements larger than ten thousand inhabitants where there remains a belt of 200 and 300. The 100-metre protection belt was defined as a rough surface in the edges of the settlement. Hunting activities are carried out outside the protection area, with hunting weapons with unscathed pipes and ammunition, which at a distance from 100 metres does not pose a threat to the population and domestic animals. Special control and supervision of movements, migration and the numerous conditions of feral pigs should be carried out for the reasons that they are vectors, carriers of Newcastle swine fever, African swine fever, pardon and the main verifier of damage to agricultural crops. I therefore welcome the fact that hunting is almost abolished, except during pregnancy and youth leadership for this category, and in the countries of the European Union special attention is being paid to this species, so that, in order to prevent the spread of African swine fever at the border between the Czech Republic and Poland, even raises fences. I think it is good to allow hunting education and the determination of traineeships already after the sixteenth year, that the Croatian Hunting Union can then issue a hunting card to the person who passed the hunting exam at the age of 17 and a half as provided for by this Act. The Minister may also adopt a Regulation on the reduction of the state of a species of game, except birds and, exceptionally, if they do so to fishermen and waters of great damage. I spoke last time, and now I'm going to say one thing that's not so much about this law, and it's important to say. A huge problem of crows in urban areas that have become regular residents in our cities and settlements. They are loud and unpleasant and do damage to agriculture, to tiny animals and birds. This problem will surely come to order very soon. In the end, in most segments, the law managed to reconcile the opposing sides, except for the consideration of compensation for damages. And that's where I agree. Surely the Secretary of State will later say, we will also say this through the discussion of the extent of the damage to agriculture. You said that this law would destroy agriculture, I'm not sure that hunting law is the one that will destroy Croatian agriculture, but the damages have been agriculture before, the damage will be in the future, the damages are huge, the measures are in tens, hundreds of millions of kuna, and I would find it very interesting to hear the solution to this problem. As for the damage compensation, related to car insurance, surely over three years after this measurement, we'll find the best way to solve the problem, whether it's going to be some kind of detachment, 10-15 kuna in insurance, or some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101094	Thank you, MP Tomislav Klaric answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101095	Dear counterpart Križanić, you mentioned a preliminary debate. Criticism, every word, and not a single word solution. What to do to make it better in this law. And the question is, we all realize that there are damage problems. That the problem with compensation is, but the question is again, what if the hunting associations shut down, what if there's no hunting lease? What if there are no hunting grounds, then how many savages of that kind will be, what will be the expansion, and then the damage. So it's all connected to each other. And we can't generalize the problem in this way, especially in that part to criticize each of the items of the law, and we haven't offered a single solution to how to get there. And it's about huge means to be provided. And the simplest thing is to throw it at hunting associations. And where do they come from? Turn it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101096	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101097	Comrade Klaric, thank you for your suggestion or question. I've made it very clear about it, that criticism is good, I'm always ready to hear criticism. I always try to offer a solution. We have not heard that solution from anyone who has criticized, nor have we received a solution related to the damage to agriculture, adequately with which everyone would be pleased. I'm saying again that these damages are enormous. These damages move in tens or hundreds of thousands of kunas, hunting associations cannot handle it in any way. The state will have to find a way to solve this problem over a certain period of time. Surely we can't throw trees and stones at hunters and hunting associations like we just heard. If hunting associations were shut down, not only would they not guard the game, but those damage would be 100 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101098	Representative Zeljko Lenart, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101099	My colleague Križanić, you, after your discussion, partly replicated half the debate for me. I'm asking you, do you consider article 79 fair? I don't think so. Hunting associations, a colleague here was talking about what happens when they shut down? So it says in the law, read in the law what happens when there's no poacher who's responsible, right? You know who's responsible and who's going to be in harm's way. Let's stop? How's the prevention? So is it clear to you that the feral pig that's cut can't use a rifle to reduce her number? Today, she feeds ten young people a year, sometimes one to two, when she was a real wild pig, now she's been pissed twice a year. What a pig does to an electric shepherd, it surrounds, it drys and goes through it like a tank. You're talking about something you don't know anything about, and the associations are going down just because they're going to be doing damage from big pig hunting sites, and the common hunting grounds are going to pay for the damage of big ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101100	Agent Lenart, time's up, please watch your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101101	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but when can I have a colleague named Bacic in 19 seconds, so can I have a few seconds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101102	You're the same extension, I let go. Replica response, MP Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101103	Thank you, colleague Lenart. Allow me, you were the secretary of state, I've never been a civil servant before to have a chance to sort things out, you've had a chance, so you haven't had a chance to show it yet. You only know how to criticize, when hunting associations are shut down, then you know what's next. Yeah, you know what's next. There's anarchy coming. Then there's not even a system of resolution anymore. Let's stop. You were talking about prevention. Yes, reinforced trigger. You're the only one in the world who knows everything, you're the secretary of state, you know how to solve a farmer's problem. And you're a hunter and a farmer, and I don't know what you're all about. If hunting associations go out, I wonder how you're gonna talk to hunters now that you get to them. And believe me, I don't know much about agriculture. Maybe not as well as you at 50 acres know something at 700 or 800. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101104	Representative Lenart has requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101105	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 238 insult by colleagues Križanić. I was Secretary of State at the Ministry of Tourism at the time of the best minister, in that government that was from the HSS, and I couldn't solve the problems in agriculture, especially the damage from savages. You are now in a position to decide on Wednesday not to raise your hand and reduce the damage here, and you normally won't, because you can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101106	My colleague Križanić, there is no need to hurt the Rules of Procedure because I have not been able to say anything at all. Agent Leonard, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I have to give you a notice under Article 239. Thank you. Representative Allen Prelec, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101107	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Križanić, you have talked a lot about this law, I agree that he is in a really great work is a good law, but I ask your comment regarding that comment regarding that, in my court, too much authority to the Croatian Hunting Union. In particular, in this article 59, where the hunting officer says he is obliged to have a hunter, and the training of hunters is carried out by HLS. As we will see your judgment on this we give too much authority to the Croatian Hunting Union only to how much they have at their disposal, how much profit they have, where the money goes and what they do. My colleague Klaric said that we are giving a solution I am not criticising this but I am giving a solution, here I have given an amendment in which to write, training a hunter is carried out with legal persons who have the power to do so by the ministry, here are concrete things. Why we give everything to the Croatian Hunting Union, and we know that there are many things in this Croatian Hunting Union and not all must be members of the Croatian Hunting Union And they will use their position to blackmail. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101108	Thank you, the reply to the replica, representative Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101109	I thank you, I can agree with you regarding the Croatian Hunting Union, I can agree with you that this could have been a happier solution, I have no personal objection to such powers, that such powers had been conferred on the Ministry, the hunting or forestry administration or any other administration, and there was no necessarily solution that should have been, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101110	Agent Nikola Grmoy, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101111	Dear colleague, I have come forward because I have received one message from hunters from the Neretva Valley and they believe that this law should finally allow me to hammer, it is a traditional form of hunting, of course, to limit the hunt itself, but to allow something that is part of our tradition and here for this reason because I had some other obligations I did not arrive during the debate, but you are part of the ruling majority, so please, and also representatives of the ministry to consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101112	Replica response, MP Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101113	Dear comrade Grmoya, you probably said that on your domicile dialect and I don't know what kind of hunting is. And this one for all that hunters are looking for, and you think it's good I'm always for, though, but I don't know what kind of money it is, and whatever I answer you, I would prejudge, thank you. [[Intruder:... find your translator.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101114	For individual participation in the debate, MP Tomislav Liposčak reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101115	I thank President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, here is the Hunting Law, the Final Proposal of the Hunting Law, and before I begin something more on this subject, I would like to once again highlight the definition of hunting or hunting as activities involving breeding, protection, use and game hunting. This use and hunting of game is in the last place and the reason why I'm saying this is often a word of negative perception, and even today in this parliamentary debate, hunters and generally hunting, which is sometimes seen as a group of people wandering the woods and shooting at practically anything that moves alive. I'm gonna do it again. I'm gonna do it again. I'm gonna do it again. I'm gonna do it again. Before I touch the law itself and this before.../incomprehensible/... was on a few more facts specifically related to the area from which I came, the ogulinian end, but I think the situation is similar if not almost identical to the whole of the Republic. In fact, he would point out that the hunters were just among the first to be organised in the service of the defence of the Republic of Croatia, the first volunteer squad, the first so-called. The village guards were trained by hunters. Even in today's peacetime conditions, hunters were the first to come to the rescue we had the opportunity to see in the catastrophic floods in the Ogulin area, who were just among the first with 100 members to assist the endangered and flooded population. It was similar in large quantities of snow, when the only hunters who were cleaning their way to the hunting grounds were saving game and many other associations of a group of citizens who were very often the loudest in criticism were not even close. However, let's go back now and to the legal proposal itself although a lot has already been said today and in the debate and I don't want to repeat myself too much, yet I would point out that every shift for the better, according to a clearer and more organised hunt, actually has a multiplier effect and has benefits and benefits especially in rural areas where, in fact, every meal sold through hunting can not only look at the concept of hunting, it is much wider and now, through the possibilities of various different tourism and economy where, in fact, in these smaller areas in rural areas, each sold more of every rented bed is more of multiple benefit to our population. In my view, perhaps the most important thing in this law is the question of damage, the eternal question of which we have broken spears for years and we will probably break spears and into the future because it is very difficult to bring all interested parties together to be satisfied with any legal proposal, especially here when we talk about hunters and hunting authorities, or with farmers on the other hand. However, the solution in a way that 50% of the funding for the money right is returned through the ministry, including for the insurance of the hunting grounds and the compensation of the damage is one way to relieve the hunting societies and gives them additional security in their future existence in relation to the situation we have had so far, but we have already talked a lot about it today and there is a lot of it said so I would not repeat and extend myself. I would take advantage of the opportunity with us and the secretary of state to comment, perhaps even a few concerns, to solve which are bound by the law itself, and the truth has already been heard about it. It would also refer to Article 59, which states that the hunting authority is obliged to have a hunter, the hunter must possess the card issued by the Croatian Hunting Union, and the training of hunters is carried out by the Croatian Hunting Union. Now, about that training, maybe it's a little vaguely written, or maybe I don't understand it well enough, so maybe we should explain a little bit. I am the way of training the hunter whether it is done by the Croatian Hunting Union or the Hunting School by selecting an alliance. If it's a university, I think it would be a good idea to extend that power, actually, training a hunter to all other hunting schools, if I'm not cheating 16 or 17 in the Republic of Croatia, precisely for reasons of reducing costs. So either the individuals will have to travel to Zagreb, to the Croatian Hunting Federation to take that training for the hunter or the alliance will have to organise it on... locations, where costs rise again because they need to organise and meet legal criteria regarding classrooms, classroom equipment and similar criteria. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also when we are already introducing the notion of a hunter in the legal proposal itself, the question arises whether this hunter is now taking responsibility for carrying out the hunt, or whether we still have a hunting authority who is responsible for the hunt, or in this case, in the case of an association, that is the president of a hunting society. Also related to the hunter, we have an art.24, where section 4 states what all the hunter is obliged to provide, or what he is obliged to have. Equally in art. The 36th century states that all concessionaires are obliged to have. And again, in these two articles, we're actually missing that hunter. If they have to have it, they don't have to have it, it doesn't say it. It's just like that. 35. defines that on national hunting grounds more than 10 thousand hectares of concessions of hunting is given for up to 30 years. The question that we get, which is why only at more than 10,000 hectares, what about these smaller ones, or which have, for example, 9900 hectares and so on. It would also especially relate to the article. 9th or to species defined as game. Between these two readings on the list of savages disappears or a large crow or cormorant is left out as we usually call it, and don't get me wrong, I'm not against the protection of animals, especially a large crow, but I'm going to repeat one question that often asks who will protect nature itself from nature's protectors? Namely, who will protect and finally protect my Good One, my Toncic, the Kupu River or many other salmonid waters from a large crow or cormorant. Who will protect the stream trout or many other indigenouss, even in some cases endemic fish species. On these waters, the appearance of a family of great crows or not, God gives them whole colonies, within a very short period of time, the devastation of the entire fish fund, and then we are in vain the effort of both fishermen and fishing companies and fish guards who take care of these waters when a law-protected poacher actually causes us great damage in just a few months. The damage to the ponds, on the fish surfaces, I won't even speak because they're extremely large. That is why I also appeal to the Ministry this time to find a solution to this problem as soon as possible, which will satisfy all interested, nature and fishermen and, of course, fishing societies or sports fishermen. Because as long as we agree whether cormorant or large crow is a strictly protected species or not, whether it is autochton or alohton, in the meantime, we have major damages that have long-term and long-term consequences, and the devastation on such small open waters is extremely high. Here, and finally I would welcome actually this legal solution and I will repeat what I have already said that every advance in hunting and hunting as an activity has a multiplier effect, both on tourism and on the economy because only hunting is actually a concept that is much wider than the hunt itself, especially in our smaller rural areas where every job is more, every rented bed is more and more very welcome and good thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101116	Representative Tomislav Klaric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101117	Dear fellow, here before the replica, just an explanation of Grumo's hunting tick. So, the traditional way of hunting in the Neretva Valley, where they... I don't know what you don't and that's something that should be supported in any way traditionally about the reduction in numbers. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as far as education is concerned, here in Art. 4, we are all watching the training of the hunter who conducts the Croatian Hunting Union. But there are five conditions and a way of education, a look... the training of the hunter from the duties of the hunter, the minister shall prescribe by Regulation. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's one rule. I'm talking here for reasons because we've had a situation in our time when hunters have trained in hunting societies for a certain number of years, we've passed a hunting test. Now, practically, the hunters, in a way, pay for the exams, pass the hunting exam, and then run into the hunting company, I'd like to be your member. In this way, I consider a certain order, which connects the future member of a hunting association and the association itself, as well as the Croatian Hunting Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101118	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a representative of Lipoščak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101119	In part, and I agree with that finding of yours about so-called. We can't even talk to hunters like that because we can't put everything and the schools and everyone who deals with this kind of activity in the same basket. However, if we have allowed all the universities to educate hunters, I think we could also enable the training of hunters, as we have said, it will be defined by the regulations because I believe that the hunter is, or how we are now introducing him into the law, only one supplement of the already existing hunters and actually one education. If we gave the universities opportunities to train hunters, let's say from a zero point we make a hunter, give him the knowledge and the ability to own a hunting weapon and participate in hunting, I don't see why not then and those universities that have actually satisfied all the regulations, are able and trained one hunter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101120	Representative Allen Prelec has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101121	Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, my colleague Lipoščak, I absolutely agree with you when you said it would be good for hunters to have education opportunities throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. There are 17 universities that have, among other things, the Croatian Hunting Union, and 17 and 16 other universities in the Republic of Croatia. But only the Croatian Hunting Union has an exclusive for the education of hunters. Because that's what I'm actually opposed to. Why does the Croatian Hunting Union have this exclusive, why don't we give all 16 other universities that have permission and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Agriculture for Training, and I believe that you will support my amendment, which I have given where for such education we empower the Ministry so that the other 16 universities can call so that hunters can choose for themselves, and not in any way be influenced by this Croatian Hunting Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101122	Replicate response, MP Lipošak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101123	In fact, I told my colleague Klaric that in the replica, if the ministry is going to prescribe further regulations, then I can support such a legislative proposal and I see no reason not to, and of course I agree that in the end, starting from the hunters themselves who are going to need to pass or educate for the hunter why we would not reduce them and allow them to take the means in all parts of our beautiful exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101124	Representative Davor Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101125	Thank you, Vice President, fellow Lipovsjak, you have said nicely that nature-keepers are concerned about the conservation of the environment and also 65 thousand of them and about the preservation of biodiversity and precisely on the proposal of sports and fishing associations, hunting associations, tenants, ponds that suffer huge damage from fish birds were first proposed and entered into the law to be a game hunt.../incomprehensible/... a rather large crow and not good to be thrown out, it was left to be able to submit requests from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nature to approve the hunt if it is excessive, but nowhere is it written that monitoring will be done, who will be doing it and who will pay for the damage if it comes first on freshwater ponds, and they have not been paid in millions of rents have come into financial problems, and we are now two people who do not agree with the environment, so if you agree with the environment, then. at freshwater ponds and sports-fishing associations. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101126	Replicate response, MP Lipošak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101127	Well, I agree with you in that part of it, and in my individual debate, we still have to respect the law. So if there are certain misunderstandings related to the European Directives and in fact the matching of two laws, in particular for nature protection, I see no reason not to solve this in the near future. I would especially point out the problem not only of the ponds because we are talking about aquaculture, the problem of open water to which the masters of fishing societies, who in this case and the previous proposal have not received any quotas or anything like that where it is very difficult and protection itself because I say especially on the salmonid waters that are not so deep, do not have so many natural shelters for fish, the appearance of a family of cormorants or large crows can cause huge damage and let alone entire colonies such as this happen lately, mountain cot, Kupa, Dobra, Tounjčica and so on. The rivers are devastated, the fish fund is really low.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101128	Representative Damir Felak reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101129	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, here is this debate on the final proposal of the Hunting Law in Article 4 of this law, which sets out the objective of sustainable management of the game population and their habitats in a manner and scope which permanently promotes the vitality of the game population, the product of habitat and biodiversity, and then fills the basic functions of hunting and hunting, which are economic, tourism, recreational protection and conservation of biodiversity, ecological balances of natural habitats, savages, wild fauna and flora. In addition, this law harmonizes some acts of the Republic of Croatia with acts of the European Union and I think that the key word in this law is balance. We heard in the discussions let's say the words attitudes of many sides, the attitudes of hunters, the attitudes of people who care about nature protection, and they're all kind of right, but we have one space in the Republic of Croatia where there's more at the same time more activity. One of them is hunting, hunting, the other are other economic activities, the third are some, let's say some recreational activities, people's interest in individuals, for certain forms of nature, flora, fauna of their protection, and it's hard to reconcile everything in one of these laws. As it is said in the introduction of the law goes to try to find some balance, to make everyone at least a little satisfied and I think that law has largely fulfilled that purpose. I welcome one thing, and that is decentralisation means that from now on, the county for common hunting grounds will be able to bring some measures I think it will speed up first and foremost the achievement of such measures if, in a concrete case, it is seen that there are increased damages from savages that will be able to prescribe, in a very short time, increased fire savages to prevent damage, because, let's face it, the real thread has been possible so far, and neither will it be possible in the future to prevent any damage done by savages, because it is how it is just her name, as well as in Article 51 of the Law, it is said it means she is moving freely in nature and is not under any control that we can now fully prevent the damage, but we need to do everything possible. I think that's the key one thing, we're constantly talking about disgust, repellents, this, but in article 77, the measures to prevent the damage from savages are reducing the number of savages to the number of conditions that can be grown in the hunting grounds, and I think that's a key measure. So there's, well Mr. Leonard said probably from his own experience but it's certainly not just his experience, probably in hunting societies that maybe in hunting grounds and doesn't show a real state of savagery and then through a gunshot, tracking through a hunting-economic base, some part of the game is shot off but this balance isn't achieved, and that's what we should be trying to do here I agree that control should be strengthened. But that this law will ruin Croatia's agriculture will certainly not. We are constantly talking about some kind of failure of Croatian agriculture but we see that agriculture works and that it is very tough. Not everyone is satisfied is not ideal but today a good number of people in Croatia live out of it and I am sure that the damage done by savages if through this Law one part of these responsibilities for these damages are trying in some way to tell the owners, so, agricultural areas. I think, however, that the law is somewhat balanced here, and that in the future, more resources will be found that would drive the owners away without at the same time burdening the hunting societies, because I agree entirely with the thinking of most of my colleagues that hunting societies and now in a rather difficult financial situation when they have to pay for the damages from the savages that occur both on crops and on roads and that they threaten to shut down some of these hunting companies that I'm not talking about the age structure of members and everything else. We need to find some satisfying solution to get them a little rid of it. In any case, to welcome this is that the damages caused by the roads will be financed from the fund at the ministry. That needs to be arranged with the insurance companies. And as far as I'm concerned, there's been a lot of talk about the cormorant or the great crow. I was one of the ones who argued that this species was involved in hunting game because the damages that are caused are huge. It is precisely to encourage a large number of fishing associations from where I come from where the Drava River and the waters attached to it are exposed to such damages. So, on the ponds, these damages are compensated in some way, where economic activity means, but there is no fee on these free waters. Now that we've accepted it, I've listened to Mr. Vlaovic talk a lot about it. Unfortunately, he's no longer here in the hall. He should then have listened to the debate when it was the first reading of this Law by Mr. Stazic, which sits 3rd, 4th places away from him, who was fiercely pushing for the cormorant not to be touched because it was some kind of bird to be protected. Which is why, is that cormorant particularly beautiful, isn't it? Does it do any good, doesn't work. Does he do a lot of damage, works, eats 30 kilos of fish a day. Or is if you don't eat her which is the most unfortunate thing to kill her. Well, since both HSS and SDP are in some kind of coalition and cooperation, I'm surprised that Mr. Vlaovic then did not agree with Mr. Stazic whether the crow should be protected or should be allowed to do these damages that are enormous. And we have as a consequence that certain species of fish in the Drava Basin, at least where I come from, are almost completely gone, and they used to be quite numerous. And the so-called autochton, just for the arrival of a great crow. This way of opening up the possibility of asking the Ministry of Environmental and Energy for a special permit to sort of reduce the population of a large crow or cormorants in my opinion is quite complicated. It is very slow and it will not give the effects that we all wanted but unfortunately and a certain European Regulation directs us in this direction. I hope, just that it will come to a good will in this ministry, which I mentioned, that somehow the population of the great crow will be reduced because no one wants that species to be extinct. But to reduce it to some number that would allow normal balance in fish farming and farming, and also that bird is not completely eradicated. And what's to say hello, and I welcome that, and that's taking down this line to get a hunting license for 17.5 years. I think that could have gone even more courageously, regardless of the objections from some other ministries, because in Europe we have an even 14-year limit in some countries in most countries is 16. We've now put it down to 17.5 years. It's a little shift for the better, and I think there's going to be a situation like this soon that we're going to be able to bring it down to 16 years. Clearly with strict control of the behavior of such hunters in the hunt. And clearly you don't come here, God forbid you give me some side effects. Here's so much, I think the law, what I said at first, is not ideal for anyone but has reconciled a lot. These damages that occur on the agricultural surfaces there really need to be more involved, we all need to get involved together in reducing the number of savages, and then there will be less damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101130	Representative Tomislav Liposcak has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101131	I thank my colleague, Felak. Of course I agree with you that there is no question whether the cormorant should be protected or not. The figures are questionable and the population is questionable and the damage it causes is questionable. What I have to say is, here's an article by Professor Dr. Cresimir Pagura, which is still 2002. Warned of alarming states. What's interesting is that by the 1970s the cormorant did not do so much damage and in fact its population was on one of the ecological balances of some 30-al thousand individuals at the level of Europe as a whole. In those years, there was protection, absolute cormorant, so that the number would grow by 1996 to nearly 800,000 individuals. And that's the problem. So it's not a problem whether we need to protect him or not. We need to, but certainly find one satisfactory way to keep that population in an acceptable number so as not to harm us in other eco systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101132	Replication response. I would like to thank my colleague, Lipošak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101133	Thank you. A fellow Liposchack, that's exactly what I was saying. So no one is against the protection of certain species and so are cormorants or large crows, but we must not allow ourselves simply as some responsible community that the number of that population then disrupts and damages other plant species and, above all, the animal species or fish stock here. It means protecting that, but controlled and leading that population to the number that the entire ecosystem can then bear to balance, that these damages are not... It must be fed, it will always eat a certain amount of fish but clearly, there must not be too many birds because if there are too many then they do too much damage that is especially on the ponds and economically tangible, there is no one paying compensation to the state in the ponds and, as I said, on the free waters, no one pays compensation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101134	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Josip Djakic applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the final proposal of the Hunting Law, which was in high conformity with the Croatian Hunting Union and which is also through first reading, we came to this second one in which almost everything was actually defined, clear and harmonised to better represent the hunter population but also to provide certain means and to compensate for the damages, so I'm going to talk about it. Hunting is an important economic, tourist, recreational activity in the Republic of Croatia and the adoption of this law will ensure sustainable management of wildlife populations and their habitats in a manner and volume that permanently improves the vitality of the game population, the production capacity of habitats, biodiversity that achieves the fulfillment of economic, tourist and recreational functions, as well as the functions of protection and conservation of biodiversity and the ecological balance of natural habitats of game and wild fauna and flora. A number of problems have been identified in the area of hunting, and the legislation so far has not been effective or adequate to address these problems. The satisfaction is highlighted by the fact that the applicant accepted a large majority of the remarks and proposals made in the first reading debate and thus improved the law to the greatest extent possible. In addition to harmonising the Hunting Law with the EU acquis, this law creates assumptions to address a number of problems identified in hunting. In particular, I would point out that assumptions are being made for the introduction of more order in hunting, starting from the very management of hunting grounds in breeding, protecting, hunting and traffic with game and its parts and the management of hunting weapons to the arrangement, or between the poachers and the right-holders of this bill, all newly concluded lease agreements and concessions of hunting rights and administrative contract, regulated legal relationship. It also solves the problem of concessions of hunting rights which arises because the current law did not provide for the possibility of either vision or correction of the hunting economy development programme and the neglect of the fact that in 30 years the circumstances can change and change significantly because of the diseases in game and all other pests that occur in hunting grounds. It is proposed that, in the future, the concession of the right to hunt is given within 30 years and depending on the proposed area for a higher economic cost and hunting and tourism perspective of the area of more than 10 000 ha, in which it is managed by all species of large game or game growing area greater than 1000 ha. This bill also allows the competent authorities of the county and the city of Zagreb to increase part of the jurisdiction, i.e. to carry out part of the work related to the management of hunting grounds established on their territory, regardless of whether it is state, joint or private hunting sites and which are subject to the applicable law in the exclusive jurisdiction of the ministry. First of all, he is referring to the introduction of a new way of approving hunting economic grounds for national, private and common fisheries as well as the authorisation of a competent authority, county or city of Zagreb to prohibit the pursuit of certain species of savages for the protection of its numerous conditions, the protection of agricultural crops, the occurrences of chemical, biological or radiological pollution, to allow the implementation of sanitary or reduction of ammunition and the excretion of game birds other than birds from areas where it threatens the safety of humans, property or on which it is not allowed to dwell, streams, airports and the like to provide solutions to reduce the number of the number of species of game species other than birds that threaten the health of humans, cattle, other game animals, or other animal species, if the measures to prevent the damage from savages are not sufficiently successful or not economically justified. The proposed legal solutions would also speed up the way in which measures necessary to prevent the damage from savages would be implemented, since the units of the regional (regional) self-government would, depending on the situations in place, be able to introduce faster and take the measures necessary to address the damages suffered both on game and on game. A significant novelty of this law is that private land owners of no less than 500 ha representing one whole are allowed to establish private hunting grounds on the area concerned. It is also possible to bring together the landowners concerned in the establishment of private hunting grounds if each of them owns a land area of less than 500 ha. The proposed potential for the establishment of private hunting grounds would be avoided by disputed damages over the affected areas, since the establishment of a private hunting ground on the surface of the land held as the owner, the owner of such established hunting grounds took the obligation to prevent game damage on those surfaces and himself would be responsible for the damage caused on his surface, thereby avoiding the resistances that occur in the present practice when farmers of agricultural surfaces are charged with the rights of gamers with the resulting damages considered to be insufficiently necessary to implement measures to prevent game damage. And finally, in terms of damage caused by the impact of a vehicle on the game. The proposed law defines two possible situations relating to the direct responsibility of drivers and authorisation holders of hunting rights for damage to game and vehicle. In such a way as to ensure the responsibility of the driver for the damage to the game and to the damage to the vehicle, if the vehicle has been managed against the regulations governing road safety, while the responsibility of the hunting authorisation is prescribed in cases where the damage has been found to have been caused by the execution of the hunt. What we want to say and welcome is that the Ministry of Agriculture with 15 million kuna plus the Ministry of Transport with 5 million kunas and the Croatian Hunting Union with 5 million kunas multiplied such funds of 25 million kunas allowed the acquisition of insurance policies in order to make it easier for hunting societies to collect damage through hunting insurance for those who have been killed. It is estimated and visible from the applications of 4000 damages on vehicles which are reported through year-by-year and long-term collection procedures by lawsuits, court proceedings and the cost of costs of these court proceedings. I was talking about having to do something, as in the Agriculture Act, where 70% of insurance policies return to farmers who secure their land from elementary disasters, and in this respect in the Hunting Law and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport and the Croatian Hunting Union have found the best solutions and I think that some of our colleagues are going hunting in the woods, some of them by road, so they've bypassed the road in this law and haven't actually seen what it says, so they've misread the law and they've got the wrong perceptions. They're gone today, they're done, they're gone. This law is good because the hunting alliance together with the Ministry of Agriculture agreed all its views and in the most part reached an agreement. The HDZ Club has proposed an amendment that I like and that actually enables those concessionaires who are below 10000 hectares to rent, will no longer be in the concession, that after the end of the concession they have the right, as the tenants in the previous joint hunting grounds have. Here, so much for me, I welcome this law and I think it is very well in line with all those who will use it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101136	Representative Josip Krizanic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101137	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Djakic, you were talking about paying rents, so I'm interested in what you think of hunting rents for joint hunting grounds, mostly where a tiny game dwells, I mean running, just pheasant. I think that hunting lease should be minimal because taking care of savages on such grounds is just being led by hunters, and they should be rewarded for that by reducing the bounty money on the minimum. In order to facilitate the business of such societies, especially since hunting is no longer a business and should be observed as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101138	Replicate reply by Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101139	Thank you very much, Vice President, thank you, dear colleague. I am aware of the situation of the hunting association and how large the membership fees are in them. They're 2,000.00 a year in hunting union membership is not small. However, common hunting grounds are also regulated by this law and those for them concessions i.e. For them... They prescribe counties and decide on the prices reached. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know for a fact that the initial price can be this and that, in fact, the tiny game that dwells in the hunting grounds is not somewhat attractive for some tourists, but it is for some. Some hunters strictly like to go to the races, to the pheasant, to the duck, to the goose, and these are their specialties, while others are big game, deer pig, and so on. So the price difference can't be just conditioned by the wealth of the hunting grounds, even though the county can strictly decide, to give a much cheaper price for those poorer game hunting grounds This little game. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101140	Thank you. Representative Stjepan Curaj reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101141	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, my colleagues and my colleagues. I'm going to try this very briefly, very promiscuously, just conscious of what's most important here today, and what I think is most important to our citizens. So when we talk about preventing the damage to game, we have to reconcile there, and almost four stakeholders. We have, of course, agricultural producers who suffer damage to their crops or cattle or I don't know about anything, we have associations and those who manage hunting grounds, we have citizens who suffer, have material damage to the vehicle, and we have game on the other hand when we talk about protecting themselves and breeds, but above all, savages themselves. And now that we get four different sides, we always have to find a way to reconcile everything. Which would tell the people that the wolf is full and the sheep are numbered. We know it's sometimes an impossible mission. Also, no one here can say, I think we all agree that the way so far has not been good. When we talk about the damages they had, if we talk about a car crash on the game, many times the hunting owners themselves, or associations that manage the hunting grounds, were put into a situation that neither long-term processes could be financed, nor could they make up for it, and they went into bankruptcy themselves. On this side, citizens cannot be charged, on the other hand we do not get what we want and do not use all the potential when we talk about hunting tourism with economic potential, but certainly also in maintaining the hunting grounds themselves. And that's why I'm saying that in that old, once-in-a-legal estate, it's binding. So we're all bound to take care of our property. Thus, both this law and Articles 79, 79 and 79, respectively, state what measures are, and then 81, where it is precisely said which clauses, what all the owner has to do to have the right to compensation, but also, we must be aware that he is not only determining the financial commitment to a solution. Well, God forbid, when we talk about a car crash, there's a fatal consequence. What difference does it make who's insurance company is gonna pay and how they're gonna do it? Unless those measures were taken to protect it. Prevention. It's always the basis of everything. Not repression. That's how we talk about farmers. They are required to report within seven days, not back 6 months. And now prove what damage he's done is where he's done it. So it's just that preventing the damage to game; what this law absolutely regulates, I say, in traffic and in agricultural areas, because, I think a lot of uncertainty has been so far. A colleague Djakic mentioned a number of 4,000 car accidents, so only one is serious, there is already a call for prevention. And of course, the damage everyone suffers. When we talk about agricultural producers, we are particularly talking about large areas. Of course, they need protection, they need the right to compensate for their damage. But that right and their property also obliges them to take certain measures. I say, which are directly related in Article 79, i.e. in Article 81, which is not compensated if it is closely viewed around Article 79. So, like everything else, I think this is a proposal in which, if we want, everyone can be equally content and all equally unsatisfactory. We can't reconcile all sides ever. We can't let the state just pull out of its pocket and give whatever harm comes to anyone. And that no one has to do anything about it. We don't have that bag without a bottom, and on the other hand we can't go to harm, we can't work against our farmers, and we need to look at the whole, total law, not segmented, and yet when we talk about the hunters, or about hunting itself as a branch of tourism, we certainly need to ensure their sustainability and recognize that potential that it brings us. And that's good, in conclusion with this law that now there will be more security, but of course more obligations. For us citizens who may have never been on the hunt, who have nothing to do with it, it must be important that we can drive normally. And of course the responsibility of the driver himself has been recognised here, so thank God. If you have a sign of the danger of savages on the road, so you can't chase a hundred fifty an hour and say, "Someone else is my fault." Anywhere. And it's the same law that recognizes it. So every single person, everyone in that chain, is carrying their share of responsibility, and only then can it work. So I think this is a good way, I say every time you have more sides then the best thing is that everyone is equally unhappy and everyone is equally content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101142	For individual participation in the debate, a representative, Martha Luc - Polanc, reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101143	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I personally believe that this law on hunting that is ahead of us should have been passed and that a single law on hunting should be passed because, when we look back, the last law was passed in 2005. He had a large number of shortcomings, the profession complained of a large number of non-implementable provisions so that, a whole meaningful legal solution was certainly necessary to make. However, in particular, this Law does not solve those critical points that have been highlighted as problematic yet, and it may open up some new ones, so I will now try to briefly state in my presentation what I think is illogical and missed in this law. I listened very carefully to my fellow Djakic and I was a little confused. He repeated it several times, I believe that no one put it together for him in the ministry as the law was passed after agreeing with the hunting alliance. Well, I don't know, I'm afraid that the hunting alliance wasn't the only factor to agree with when this law was passed, and especially the fact that the hunting alliance, this as well as the previous laws, was given great authority, so I hope this isn't another BORG affair in Agrokor, that there was no more here than a hunting alliance at the expense, means citizens and states. Now, just when you look at article 10 of this law, that article is very illogical. He says that membership in the hunting alliance is voluntary, and then paragraph 3 states to you that the hunting alliance has certain public powers. So now you explain to me how you can do it from someone who has public authority, and you're engaged in this activity, and you're out of it, so it's an organization that's voluntary that you don't depend on, and it means at the same time rules out patterns, training hunters, issuing you need hunting stamps, and so on. So he has certain public powers that you depend on. I think that these public powers, and in practice it is so, are used a lot and that hunting associations seem very dependent on this Hunting Union. On the other hand, the Hunting Union has received certain powers, but there is no public obligation, so the state now announced at the 8th month that the ministry had concluded a policy of insurance for game traffic damage, in which the ministry paid $12.5 million. I'm interested in how much of this hunting alliance was involved, so if he has powers, if he has certain incomes, which is why the state participates in repairing the damage if we have hunters of society, hunting associations and hunting alliances that have a monopoly on these hunting grounds, why is the state and with what exact share of the amount in that policy it participates? I think it's still kind of a bargain, creating an alliance that, perhaps even now, is as powerful as a football alliance as regards income and power. So I think these are some things that the law shouldn't allow. Furthermore, so much for the hunting alliance, I may still need it, that I can still look back at the division of the lease. So with the lease split, that's Article 30, it's been adopted that 10% of the assets go to land owners, 30% go to the state budget, 50% to the ministry and 10% to the county account. I think it's a bad decision. I don't think this kind of distribution of the rent disrespects property. You see, these funds are given, it's a fee for use, so compensation for, privates get compensation for using their land, or limiting their ownership that they suffer because of certain hunting grounds. I think the right of ownership is stronger than the right to hunt, I think that we need as a democratic state that protects the right of ownership as a great value in its constitution, I think that we have to make that happen to the landowners or damage them in what they suffer. You know, if you have a forest or land, you get these hunters passing cars, you get a game here, you have a certain time when you can't hunt for hunting on your own land and you automatically have the right to a certain fee. I think 10% of the funds are too small for them, but with those 10% of the funds they never get in nature. So, now I, today we heard during the debate that that 10% of the funds, that's what I checked out in the field, the county then distributed because the owners don't answer. Probably they have to by order, so they apply to get their share of the rent. I think it's kind of playing legislator's will. If we wrote here that landowners are entitled to 10%, then we can't change it by means of implementing acts. So, the implementing act must go in the sense that owners have the right to compensation that belongs to them that they do not have to come to apply for it, but they pay off automation and, of course, as I initially stated, 10% is certainly not enough and on the other hand, the state takes 80%. 30% goes to the state budget, 50% to the ministry. I would also like to see the proponent manifest, which is why these 30 and 50% are separate. In which these funds differ, one goes to the ministry, one into the state budget, I think this is quite untransparent and I don't know why this type of lease is separated in two parts especially when you see that the activities financed by the ministry from these 50% rents, these activities are listed in Article 30, sub-paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8, these are activities of the Croatian Hunting Union. So now I ask you, is that 50% of the Croatian Hunting Union or is it going to the Ministry? That's what I mentioned at first that the Hunting Union has public authority and that it has public obligations. So I don't think it's transparent and clearly distributed, it's not clean, it's not clear enough, there's a lot of big abuses, and I think there's different kinds of creating different secret funds and using funds that can't be seen after that money trail. Now, now, in Article 19, you have defined this law, which includes areas of hunting ground. But for the first time in the law that you have not defined that the hunting grounds do not, there is a strictly stated what, where hunting grounds are first banned, for the first time in this law is not mentioned as settlements 300 m away from the settlement. I don't know now whether it means that the settlements are now hunting grounds or whether it's deliberately or accidentally abandoned, but it's logical that the hunting ground cannot be established in the settlements, and I think it should still be stated in this law. And then, on the other hand, what you're making inconceivables, if you're saying that in settlements you can't establish hunting grounds, you're prescribing in Article 47 that on these areas where no hunting ground is established, that a rule is being passed that will then be prescribed to protect that game in those areas. In this law, you have now failed in Article 47 to indicate who will adopt that rule. If that means, if the village includes an area outside the settlement, you are leading that users of these surfaces to bring the rulebook so it's not clear to me now, I come from Slavonski Brod, we have the Town Fortress, there is a pheasant there, so I'm interested in the user of the surface is the town of Slavonski Brod, if there is more in article 47 not the mother county, does this mean that this programme protection of the pheasant must bring the town of Slavonski Brod? And also for private persons, if I have outside the city of Broda Vineyard and if we have, I don't know about the angry fox, I want to see how an ordinary citizen has to bring that regulation about taking care of that fox, so I think it's quite unsettled and that it was better solved even in the 2005 law, especially in the '94 law. Mr further, in Article 44, you mention national and action plans. So what's not hunted by the economic base to bring national and action plans and then you have one problem, when you have hunting societies that have the right to kill deer, as in Brod-Posavina County you have the right to shoot a deer Excuse me. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101144	We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues, Martha, you mentioned me and my exhibit in which I said that the high compliance of this Law was passed with the Hunting Union. For me, this is a perfectly normal assumption given the 65,000 members associated with the hunting alliance of the Republic of Croatia through 20 county hunting alliances, through the City of Zagreb as a 21st member. I think he's clearly talking about what human capacity is and how many thousands of people are involved. They represent all these hunters and through them propose what the law should be. I think it's clear to everyone. As for the compensation these 30% go for the recovery of these assets, and if you'd listened carefully, you'd hear that I said it was $15 million. of the Ministry of Agriculture, 5 of the Croatian Hunting Union and 5 of the Ministry of Transport. These are the ratios of how it's divided to help repair what's wrong with savages.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101146	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101147	We thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Well, fellow, I can't agree with you that it's normal that only the Hunting Union agrees with the law and that he's a di capo to the Ministry, who's going to say whether the law as such can pass or can't. We also have a professional public, we have competent institutes, colleges, etc. So I can't agree with you at all. When you're talking about this 30%, 10% rent, you're scratching the concepts. You know this amount of rent that's not the amount to cover the damages but it's the land use fee for hunting purposes. So that's what the real owner suffers for hunting and hunting purposes in a particular area. And the damages, that's one whole other term. Whether this amount can finance the costs of compensation for damages is something else. You don't get that for the damage itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101148	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101149	My colleagues Luc-Polanc, I actually volunteered for the replica at the moment you mentioned the group Borg at the beginning of your debate, mentioned the public authority of the Croatian Hunting Union. I don't know what. But as your debate continues to take place for me, it's too little for me to replicate at all. So you first have to study what we're even talking about here and what you're talking about when you talk about it this way. So there is some kind of suspicion of the Croatian Hunting Union of this Law. In fact, it's been working on something for 90 or 100 years. So the Croatian Hunting Union as such, the County Hunting Alliance is all in advance, everything is well known. Everything is so transparent and clear that there is no need to discuss it this way as you discussed it. From your debate, it's obvious you didn't get into any trouble with this law. And this is everything you said, and this is just in the end, this mention of yours in relation to the phenomenon of rabies in Slavonski Brod, County and how it will react. So if we're discussing some subject and in the matter, putting doubt on the institutions, then that's not good. We need to learn what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101150	The answer to the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101151	Dear colleague, as far as I understand you mean if you understand something and you learn something then there's nothing to discuss. That's what you've got to do, and you've got to take it as such. So just reading this Law and comparing it to the 1994 Law, otherwise it's the Law which praised the profession as the first quality hunting law, which was passed after we introduced private property in the state. And who was then prescribed from the Austrian hunting system, so by studying the 1995 Law and today I found certain illogicalities. And I have the right to question, I have the right to suggest. What I think might be more logical, more quality. And this theory of yours that if you question something, then you don't understand it, I don't think it stands at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101152	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have well noticed these 10% of landowners' fees without the right to hunt. I was the head of agriculture in Sisak-Moslavina County for 2.5 years. Only available from 37 joint hunting sites. After that, I was the mayor, too, it was my portfolio. I don't remember anyone ever asking for that money back, and that was 50% at the time. Today, 10% of the order is put in here. It's so small an amount that it's better not to have them here than to put only order in order to justify it as a good will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101154	The answer of the esteemed representative Luc_Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101155	Thank you. Your Honor, I'm interested in the fact that you've been acting like such a public servant, if you've ever referred citizens to their rights. I believe that public authorities must direct citizens to their right, so they will realize it. And I have also said that the implementing rules which have been laid down that you will receive this compensation only if you apply, that this law and the will of the legislator are thereby derivated. Because if the legislator has determined that 10% goes to the user and the owner of the land, then it must be carried out on the ground. Therefore, local authorities must respect the decisions of central or legislative authorities rather than derogate them by means of implementing acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101156	The next debate will be the respected representative Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, I would refer to my first reading debate. In fact, in the part where my observations at the time were not implemented in this final bill. I'll start with this more constructive part. In the end, I need to wash you off about one thing. First and foremost then, what I am saying are the proposals sent by the Associations for the Protection of Nature BIOM, the Croatian Society for the Protection of Birds and WF Adria. So the angle of view that I represent here is very clear. It's a corner of nature protection, and then I was proposing four things. The second of which referred to the fact, although the principle was banned by a lead shotgun on marsh habitats, is not defined as a violation. This stems from the fact that sanctions are not prescribed in the law itself, and this is basically a prerequisite that something in reality is treated and carried out as a violation. Since 2010 the inspectors have not actually given any punishment for this, and now we can wonder if because of the fact that I can't prescribe punishment because it's not prescribed or because there really wasn't any hunting with lead shotgun, I think that without getting into the assessment I think it's actually a probability that we can assess it, both you and I. Yes, I know what that colleague is probably saying right now, and that is that this will be prescribed under the law that was before, but the result is the same. So, here I'm really asking you that it's a small passage that can be added to the law to say that in swamp habitats it's forbidden, forbidden to use lead shotgun and then under a legal act of some kind or already here to prescribe sanctions for it, it's simply crucial. The second thing, so the thing I was talking about was the fish hunt. So in one article of the law, you prescribe that fishing is prohibited, but then in Article 11(6), if I am not mistaken, it says that hunting is still possible under certain circumstances. I mean, that actually derivates the nature of this previous article, how it's forbidden if it's actually allowed sometimes. I mean, it's just not known if the game is even grown on ponds and these associations that sent these bill proposals in their field work, and I think you know there's a lot of it, they didn't even notice barriers that could clearly separate the farmed feathered game from, say, wild birds that come to these ponds and eventually on the ponds during the shell, they suffer a number of protected species. That's why I think, they're proposing and I totally agree with them that being without exception should actually be banned from hunting without exception for breeding sites. Also, another thing that was proposed then refers to data from the Central Hunting Record. So, you say some data will be available but some will not be available because of commercial, protection of commercial interests, however, if the gamer is defined as a common resource which, as a public good belonging to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, should then come before protecting the commercial interests of one's. In that sense, access to all data or to the public of all data from the Central Hunting Register should be some principle that we are guided by, I really don't see how much data I don't know about how much we're planning to capture, how much we could really violate someone's commercial interests, I think it's less important than it is much more important that if the gamer is a public good in the Republic that its citizens are then entitled to access, they should have the right to access to all the information that is public goods and its management. Finally, the transparency of this register and other hunting-economic plans is a prerequisite for establishing, on an independent basis, whether the hunt takes place in accordance with the laws and assessments of the acceptability of the Natura 2000 Ecological Network. So, I'm asking you here to keep these things even though you didn't put them now to change your mind about them in the future. And in the end, it's not polite to liquefy and I don't like it, I don't want you to take it wrong, but I have to remind you that when I told you about the great crow that you couldn't define him as a hunting species, how similar you were to your colleague, Marti Luc-Polanc earlier, you said that that wasn't so and that it wasn't read, I referred you to the directive at the time, and I'm glad to see that in this bill, actually, after I had the impression that the European Commission had hit you on the fingers about it, that you actually realized that I was right when I warned you about it. So perhaps in the future even though it comes from the opposition order, I think it simply stands in your text if we warn you of something that is a legal gain and the Republic of Croatia which can be read which is not some intelligence but, in fact, a nomotechnic bar should be a mistake, then perhaps in the debate itself, it should be a little more concrete to approach such comments, and not to say that you know that you are not the right one, so it is not so. Here, I don't think the crown would have fallen off your head if you'd done a little differently then. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101158	We have one replica, a respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101159	I thank the Vice President, here's my colleague Glavasevic. I'm going to refer to your exposure and ironing, and here's the fact that you're exulting for the reason that the great crow has been removed from the game list, but I would not agree that he's been growing on the ponds and trust me, none of the hunters are in the interest of this crow being a game hunt, but the fact that this great crow in recent years, not in recent years, but decades, has been doing really great damage. The emphasis would be placed not only on ponds where commercial production is but also on those waters, open water, especially I was speaking in an individual debate of small depth, indigenous endemic species have no opportunity to find natural, natural shelter and where this great crow is doing huge damage. I agree that it may be necessary to ban the hunt for a great crow because we have seen that the hunt does not eradicate it, but the new ones are coming, but we must be aware that in the future we will have to find a way to reduce its number and reduce the damage otherwise we will not be able to look into our fishermen' eyes and sports companies' eyes. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101160	Thank you. The response of the respected representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101161	Thank you. I thank my colleague for this observation, noting that I really didn't like this one any more, if anything, then I regret that political dialogue is sometimes so barren and poor in our country. But as for the great crow, I mean, you need to separate the recognition of the problem from what is possible or impossible to do. If the directive says it is not possible to declare it a species, it is not possible to declare it a species. Then we need to look for a solution that's different. So my observation and then and now it was simply a reference to that fact. So, without exception, or without any fence, the colleague of the Queen said the same thing as you can, therefore, be a crow of great vermin sometimes, but that doesn't mean that we can break something the directive tells us to do, which we adopted at the end of the day. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101162	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101163	Thank you, dear Vice President. I'm sorry that this debate isn't with more actors involved in it, that we're more discussing this hunting problem and this law that's in this article. 79th most disputed. The Croatian Hunting Union is listed here as the organisation with which the consultations were conducted and on which basis it is also written this bill. The Croatian Hunting Union is an impressive organization, organised in which members are powerful educated people who, behold, have managed to fight to single out a law to be so in their will and in their favor. I wish agriculture had one such organization as the Croatian Hunting Union, and I would also like the promoter of the association from the agriculture sector also to call for consultations on the making of this bill, to hear their opinions, to respect their opinions, and I think that their opinions would be far stronger than what I've been saying here today. Because the damage that will be done to agriculture, agricultural production is far greater than the benefits that will be achieved, we are talking about material benefits for the Republic of Croatia through the hunting sector because today we have not recorded all the commercial hunting, all the tourism that goes through this sector because a lot of it is in some gray zone. I'm sorry that some of the MPs misunderstood me. I didn't come here to discuss who knows how much about agriculture because it's less important at this point here than who understands what agricultural production seems to be through a law like this today. He's arguing, and he'll probably adopt himself as one on Wednesday. We don't realize that every job in agriculture opens almost 2 jobs in the economy, generates economics, and in this way we're going to drive a lot of people out of this business. I don't know how my colleague Pupovac, who unfortunately isn't here, will explain to his voters why he will raise his hand for such a law if he raises, why many MPs who agree with what I've discussed, unfortunately, can't make it public, including his colleague Djakic, who unfortunately has to read what they write to him, but I believe that even some things he doesn't understand because he talked about exorcising savages from the crops. So I'd like you to try a colleague named Djakic to drive wild pigs out of a 15-hectare board of corn. Well, it's not tanks and tanks, so you can't even find them with an increase in that part, and just when the crops come to that stage that game can hide in them, it's just impossible to do it that way. But in this law that apparently suits all hunters, the fact is, it's not like that. Hunting associations that mainly master common hunting sites, meaning county ones, are made up of small people with low incomes, taking care of their hunting sites, socializing. However, in their hunting grounds the damage is caused by game from major national hunting grounds, which are hunting authorities or legal persons or natural persons. They can afford luxury because they have commercial cash, they have a big economic, hunting economic base, they have expensive game, and through that part they can profit by mastering such a hunting ground. However, this game that is doing damage in common hunting grounds will lead to hunting associations due to their end and destruction because they will not be able to withstand the burden of anything related to these pressures and the damages associated with the game. What is interesting about these claims of compensation, says that within 7 days, the damage has to be addressed by written means by hunting authority. Then the hunting authority is obliged to address him within 7 days. Answer. After the expiry of those deadlines set out in these articles, the damage shall be due within 30 days to propose a hunting authorisation to the conclusion of the Agreement. Based on what? Then it should simply be written in this law to make it a court security evidence. Who is it that can also give one correction that will be credible during the trial. After those 30 days, we've spent 2.5 months here, so that's half the vegetation of a crop. What about the damages that don't seem at the end of the vegetation? Who will determine these damages? This shows that the whole story is written so that the damage has no time or real instruments to remove its damage to the extent that it is worth at least as much as it is. And if hunting is the first branch of the economy in Croatia, then that's what it takes to say, and agriculture is the last, so that all of us who deal in agriculture, we know what we're on, and not that we're investing in production, we don't know the price of how much we're going to sell it, and then we're still fighting this factor. I know very few of my colleagues who have driven out the damage they have done to them. Well, it's clear to all of us that a savage will always do some damage. And we're not against that there are neither hunting associations nor poachers, but the damage has to be compensated adequately for what has been done since these people are going to fail if they don't get adequate damage. We're just talking about it here, there's always been some damage, but in recent years the compensation for that damage has simply been impossible. We have people who have 1800 ha where 200 ha destroyed their wild boar. 200 ha total damage. So do you know how much that means for a company 200 ha of total damage? They've been in court for years. For years, they have miles and miles of wire, electric shepherds, they have workers who only do this job and still can't defend themselves from it. That's all I'm talking about. It is one of the biggest problems of this law, but also this lobby called the Croatian Hunting Union. I'm sorry to have to talk about it as a hunter, and as a member of the Croatian Hunting Union, but it's true. We can't subdue everything to someone's pleasure, we need to understand that people live on something. All right, the vehicles are solved. Collect the cars of those who have money to buy expensive cars. They'll get compensation if they have any damage from the savages. But what about those who invest in agriculture, every hectare is at least 5,000 kn. And if you didn't take it back and at least earn a crumb, you can't survive, in that area it's going to be agricultural production. Then let's say clearly we don't need agriculture, people go to cities, go where you're going, let's have hunting grounds and hunt here. So we know where we're at. I'm not saying this just for my own sake, I personally have no harm in some of my crops but these are rare areas where there's no harm from a wild pig. The feral pig has crossed, and no one will clearly admit that the number of wild pigs cannot be reduced by a rifle. There's no way how many wild boars there are especially in years when there's good food and we know that this year the jury gave birth well, that the climate is good and that the year after, there will be a problem with the wild pig again. I appeal to you to move this one and put it into third reading and to change this article in 79, to make it fairer, it can never be 100% fair, let's make it fairer, so that all other people are satisfied, not just those who have big hunting grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101164	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101165	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, well, you gave me the inspiration to mention today the part concerning the problems of invasive alochton savages compared to the indigenous game, of course I'm talking about Cres where at this moment 5 more feral pigs than sheep and despite numerous requests, the requirements of observations and first reading and between two readings, we welcomed the new Law on Islands that did not respect any of the remarks that came from Krk and Cres about the island of Cres, on the island of Krk, which only shows that this lobby that you spoke of and prevailed there and did not respect the interests of the people living from agriculture, from the oatmeal on the island of Krk, in Lošinj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101166	The answer of the esteemed representative Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101167	Thank you. Dear colleague, here we can say that the wild boar is the same as the seafood because she started swimming in the Adriatic and then doing the great damage you mentioned. I only thought of one more thing I forgot. Today, through the debate, the fox and the fox fight were stretched out and the fox was destroyed as if it were the biggest problem in hunting and living in the Republic of Croatia. The fox is even a useful animal as far as agriculture is concerned, because it destroys some pests and even some coke, but that's the price of it. The problem is already a nail that we haven't talked much about today, a nail that destroys and a fox, which destroys the deer game, which simply forced the fox to come to cities and populated villages because it simply has to run before the nail. I didn't see anything in this law special about the coals and the problems that had arisen with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101168	Thank you very much. And the next individual will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101169	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, at the end of this debate of the Hunting Act or at the end, it should be mentioned once again that hunting is in the tradition of our regions and our people and that almost 65,000 hunters in Croatia and that they are both nature keepers and that they love hunting and that they care about gamers, but of course they want and that recreation is also a potential economic branch, especially hunting tourism where Croatia was known as a hunting destination and in this law some improvements are made in terms of a better, simpler flow of gun hunters, dogs and savages not beyond what is here, I welcome, however, that they are organised into hunting associations and that in this way they work in their own area, there is a need to distinguish county hunting sites and domestic hunting associations and state hunting sites where most often renters or Croatian forests or private companies are related private owners. And that certainly what is in practice and on the ground, and related to the damages in agricultural cultures, there were more problems right next to the borders of national hunting grounds, where it borders with agricultural areas and that through that part there must be a better and better-quality solution. This law should have been a tool for real hunting, to achieve a real economic branch and to be satisfied both hunters and hunting associations and agricultural producers and ecological associations, associations dealing with nature protection, charterers of ponds, counties and the Croatian Hunting Union itself. However, the general assessment is, and I also said on the board, that there are a lot of dissatisfaction with this law, so it can be interpreted that the ministry has hit, if a lot of dissatisfaction, the law seems to have hit the purpose and goal, but there are a lot of these details that we have discussed today where it is not in a good way and it is not sufficiently well solved certain areas. My colleague Lenart has already mentioned the damage to the agricultural areas, I will tell you based on the experience of Brod-Posavina County, that you have in certain municipalities such as... where we have also had protests of citizens, where simply agricultural producers along the edge with a national hunting ground, leave their orchards, vineyards and agricultural areas because they simply can no longer defend themselves against the damage to agricultural cultures because in a number of ways it has been tried to reach an agreement, and the county has been involved in organising through different meetings an agreement between the poachers and landowners, however, no agreement has been reached, the court, the court is still going on, the damage to agricultural cultures has not been compensated, and that is enough to say that we have not already prescribed this article in what way it will be dealt with in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a good thing that a policy has been solved for damages against driving on game or game on vehicles, thus protecting domestic hunting associations from bankruptcy which many have experienced because of but certainly is not a good thing that has not been solved and related to the damage to agricultural cultures. We have a situation that the law provides that the damage must be more than 50% of the total production per an average yield and income per technology unit. Whether a sublegal act will define what a technological unit is, who will determine that technological unit especially when we know that a large number of agricultural producers, small OPGs have 30 parcels scattered along the hunting line. It is easy where state agricultural land is, where not some agricultural food combination bordered with hunting grounds, there will be easy arrangements and protection against the damage of gamers, here where agricultural areas are not well solved. We have a situation so far that the owner of the land has to submit a request within 7 days, after 7 days he must be answered by the poacher, must be found on the plot, determine the damage, but most often they do not agree because you must understand and the owner of the land because it is not only income and contribution but it is also his property. If a year, two is owned, has the right to rebel, not to touch his property, and they emotionally experience it and generally do not agree and end up in court with then the owner of the land must provide court proof of the height of the damage, perform the court's expert and prove this long-term process. In my opinion and according to the HSS, it should be better worked out, which is why my colleague suggested we go into third reading, let's say one of the proposals, so we have a hunting inspector, we have a farm inspector. Why not, at the request of the injured, come out one and the other inspector, the owner of the hunting grounds, the owner of the land and the representative of the regional self-government and make an assessment of the damage and the time limit until the damage has to be compensated? Here's one quality, quick solution or what they had through the insurance policy, although we can see that no more insurance houses will provide damage to the gamer's agricultural land, if they won't, I think this might be a practical solution for us not to argue with hunters and landowners because I don't think it's in this law and we're not in the interest either. We have to protect our agricultural producers because all those measures that are prescribed that it must be implemented, it mainly implements, but from the technical characteristics of its land there is usually no great success because these are small scattered parcels, because the gamer breaks his shepherd, because someone takes his battery from the shepherds, etc., you know that from the practice of what happens on the ground, it just doesn't work. And in particular, it hurts the injustice of our agricultural producers and in the municipality of Stara Gradiška and the surroundings of Okucan, Lipika and Pakrac where our agricultural producers have never received damages because the poacher changed the name, changed the owner, remained in the lease even though it was even a court order on the basis of the inspector's proposal to break up the lease contract, the lease contract was extended. There is no trust in the system and that is why agricultural producers are so bitter that this has been allowed so far from the level of the ministry. I hope that in this law that this practice will change and that all those who break the law relating to the Hunting Law and damages to agricultural producers will immediately be terminated contracts and the same proceedings will be initiated for damages under official duty rather than by an agricultural producer who has no money to sue, to conduct litigation and most often give up and to give up production. Also, I have already mentioned that unsatisfactory representatives from sports and fishing associations, representatives or owners or charterers of freshwater ponds have not been paid for 2, 3 years because they have not been compensated for the damages of fishing birds, which are millions of amounts, partly due to an administrative error, I hope that this will be corrected and that they will be paid because they cannot do business without it. I can't do business, these are huge damages and the fact that in the first reading was cormorant and hunting for game, now it's not, I understand the pressure of the European Commission and the people who are dealing with nature protection, but these representatives of sports fishing associations who see certain species disappearing because corromorones are doing damage, and especially it's a big damage on freshwater ponds, and it just needs to be paid by someone. If we want to have freshwater fishing, we have to preserve those jobs, then we have to pay those people for those damages, and they're not paid. Hunting associations are also dissatisfied because, you have stated here in the law that a new hunting ground of 500 hectares or more, private owner or land, forests can apply for the establishment of a hunting ground. How he will establish a hunting ground when all the land is already divided into state and county hunting grounds. So someone has to give up their work of hunting. If someone invested in that hunting ground, 10, 15, 20 years, so who's going to give up 500 acres of that hunting ground and what right to take away that hunting ground? I think you answered my first reading that in agreement between the current poacher and the future founder of the hunting grounds, the ministry will establish a hunting ground. Well, it's never gonna come to that deal. Because he won't agree to it. Who's going to order them? The Ministry? Why? For who? For whom is this article written, tell me by name and last name, who is it for to establish a hunting ground? And then in the 7th article of that 15th paragraph of paragraphs 1 and 3 where you talk about it, you say that these owners of 500 acres and more can join together and set up a larger hunting ground. And why couldn't 10 agricultural producers with 50 hectares join together and set up a 500-hectare hunting ground? Why didn't you let that happen? That domicile people in S.H.I.E.L.D. or somewhere where they have their own private plots can set up hunting grounds and hunt. That's not gonna happen. And for these big ones, you got it. And who is this, the name and last name of which these hunting grounds will be founded? I know the County Hunting Union was against it! I asked them to send me an amendment - everyone's silent. Someone who's obviously powerful enough to get that hunting ground. Let's ask, here, publicly, who's the one for whom it's being prepared? And I'd like to mention again the increase in revenues for the county. You've lowered their powers, but also their obligations. They'll have higher expenses, and you've cut their incomes. We were going to make an amendment to make these revenues 30% of the rent, and the ministry remains 30%, 30% of the finance ministry enough to finance policies and other jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101170	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the motionary, the final secretary of state at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Zeljko Kraljevicak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101171	Let me finally, after more than 4 hours of quality and exhaustive debates thank all those who participated and contributed to the fact that the Croatian public and all of us in the highest quality way consider who is in fact the real and volume of the work and obligations and the severity of the law itself. Today we have a lot of European and Croatian regulations that regulate environmental protection. We have a lot of laws that define other rights to use and property itself. And that part that is part of the cultural heritage that we have today in the Republic of Croatia. This law is indeed written with the aim of creating one new foundation, one new basis that we can quality-edit all of these space-sharing factors, which suffer certain damages and which have certain rights and obligations. When we faced a real problem about the sustainability of hunting in the Republic of Croatia, and these are all the poachers who due to, I will say less quality regulated regulations and court practices have today come into the position that they do not want to do this job. And our most important job through this law is to regulate the management and protection of savages. But at the same time, provide everyone who shares that space so that they can carry out their duties. We faced the problem of having 2 million car owners on one side who today, or who up to a few months ago, didn't know what they'd do if they suffered damage on some dark night, ran into a savage. Today, a colleague at the beginning of the debate, sir, a parliamentary representative, said that we are paying for the damages of public, taxpayers. That's not true. I'd like to correct that assumption. All that we can invest in hunting, in hunting protection are the funds that we collect from a hunting lease for name, hunting rights and concessions. These are the funds paid by poachers and hunting associations as compensation for the right to use that space. Unfortunately, this is the framework that we have and with which we can address these many problems that you have talked about today in the most qualitative way. And certainly that all of you who spoke today about the importance of protecting the owners of the agricultural areas, our producers who live off it. Who simply single out these market conditions today, with less technology in a rural area where we have problems in the market for food products with plasma, to survive that agriculture. We talked about how important it was to help them. But your debate was focused on their problems and the damage they were caused to solve the poachers and pay just for the hunting associations and the tenants' rights of the hunt. And the second part of the debate was how we should protect the tenants of that small hunting association who are poor. On the other hand, on the third hand, we have all the necessary obligations to regulate when it comes to the protection of nature and obligations that we must invest in the resolution and implementation of these directives in the protection of our nature. And anyone who pointed out any problem is, and rightly so. But this is precisely the law that we have created the necessary preconditions for the practice we have so far in the field of hunting to be arranged in a way that is very clear to prescribe procedures, which means the rights and obligations of all those who use this space. And if we all respect the rules, the way we've prepared them here today, let's make sure we have the results. To protect manufacturers, which we do not consider to be an additional obligation to report damage within seven days which we do not consider to be an additional obligation to report within 7 days that they have suffered damage. When, by the right of a good master, every farmer of the agricultural land comes out and goes to his plot to see if he has grown weeds whether a disease or a pest has occurred, whether it has been rained down, we do not consider that he has additional separations. But if he noticed that the damage had occurred and that he had reported it to the poacher in time so he helped himself and the poacher. That's how we run the mechanisms we have. And the main mechanism is that we've transferred all the powers to the county for speeding up the process itself. That the counties in a real short period of time, within a day, two can issue extra stamps. That I can issue additional solutions and thus prevent damage from being reduced. We today cannot single out so many financial resources without them in the budget if we do not directly control the damages and risks of damage. That means we have to reduce the number of states. This means that our inspections must be monitored when hunting grounds and plans are carried out. And if more animals appear, the population in that space, to intervene to reduce it to that number that simply belongs to the parent fund of that hunting ground and that reflects the natural wealth of the habitat itself. By reducing the population of several measures in control and control of the implementation of what we predicted in the Law to execute the Lon-economic foundations. The sharing of risks to all factors in this area that are simply linked to hunting and agricultural production and creating good foundations to change court practice. If you have prescribed a procedure in which the obligation of the poachers and owners of agricultural areas is very clear, then you have ensured the possibility that, based on other positive regulations, guilt can be found and that these processes do not go further. When we talked about private hunting grounds, Mr Djakic was here closest to finding the best solution. We'd like to have circular production in a way that every farmer of agricultural land is both a concessionary or a tenant of hunting rights. And to be responsible for the damage that occurs on its agricultural surfaces. But I was talking about some traditional chronological heritage we have. Where we have hunting associations, where we are the area that today's hunting grounds are formed hunting grounds. Someone lords these hunting grounds and today give it to one man as it was a proposal, a private man, the owner of the hunting grounds. On the other hand, it was also thought that without the consent of the poachers, it could not be given to a private person to have the right to rent money on his private hunting grounds. Whether he consumes it himself or he gives it to someone else in the lease it's his right. But we have to start with something that has never existed in Croatia before. And that's the term private hunting ground. It's a hunting ground for the owners of these agricultural areas. To just maybe prove how big the problem is in this part, Mr. Vlaovic, as you pointed out yourself that today in Croatia we have about 500,000 ha of private forests and that we have somewhere between 400 and 600,000 owners or these private forest owners. So what it would be like now to arrange for 600 500 thousand ha of private forest hunting grounds when we have a few hundred, maybe a million particles and so many of the same owners. When we talk about part of the amendment Art. 31. In the income structure should first say one thing which so far has not been discussed here in both readings and this is the issue of the county's incomes they had. A colleague said he was the head and deputy mayor, and so was I, one of the best. I know how important it is for that income to end up in the county. But at the same time, the counties of all these years had income where the hunting ground was established on state land. And that was the county's income. We don't think the county's doing it, now these provisions are being denied for something they had. The State or the Ministry of Agriculture has so far had only 10% of its income. But all they saw was that some of the activities that the county had to do so far had been done and worked with great effort but we had no results. And this is the fact that so far the county has been able to finance insurance policies on agricultural crops and on traffic damage. But where there is a great risk, there simply all the funds of the county budget were not enough to cover that risk. But the worst thing is to lose a laureate in that space, and that's what started today as a process in Croatia. If you lose the poacher then for all traffic damage and all the damage to agricultural cultures will be borne by the founder of the hunting grounds, which is County or for state hunting grounds is the Budget of the Republic of Croatia. Just aware of all these consequences of inaction, or perhaps now in this applicable Law, which simply passed after 10 or 15 years and no longer provides adequate solutions, we had to pass a Law that must give a very clear message. And that is, to regulate the area of hunting, we arrange all the necessary procedures to preserve both game and nature and poachers, and most of all to preserve the owners of agricultural areas in such a way that we can prescribe the procedure and give them the opportunity on the one hand to receive the right of hunting as owners of their land and to keep their crops and on the other hand to arrange for them to be able to be very clear and transparently guaranteed that they will be compensated for the damage. It's easier to recover, pay for the damage that occurred in 7 or 10 days than when the damage occurs for 6 months or the whole vegetation. And that's just one part of the prevention we want to introduce into practice. About whose record it's going to be, so you know that we've predicted that hunting associations have their own commissions, that local self-government units have damage assessment commissions. Surely any evidence that exists between the two partners is good evidence if they want to agree, if they do not want to agree, then neither the case law nor the first-degree verdicts give results, and we were to avoid exactly that kind of situation. And that's why we decided that, through the change in income structure, the Ministry of Agriculture is now charging 50% of the funds with a very clear intention to focus all resources on ensuring the risks created in the hunting grounds. I think we've solved the good model of insurance damage on the roads, preserved our fellow citizens and relieved the judiciary that it doesn't have to conduct long-term procedures that don't give results, and that through the current activities of implementing this law, and that's why I'm asking you to really consider the important consequences of adopting this law, which is to reduce the risk. If we reduce the risk and establish procedures, speed up decision-making and action-making on the ground, we will reduce financial expenditure, and then these financial expenditures will also be eligible for insurance through companies that are willing to enter such a package. We need to measure the technical result, we need to see that through the policy and premiums we get a sustainable amount that we don't have to have the practice we've had in recent years, which is that all insurance companies in one hunting area are changing, because the poacher can no longer financially monitor his obligations. And so I thank you in the end for a truly comprehensive debate, you have helped us in the first reading, to really recognize the most important segments of this law that we want to regulate in the interest of all who are using.../incomprehensible/... space, and above all for Croatian hunting, for all our agricultural producers and according to and for those obligations that we have made when we become a member of the European Union, this is our framework law at this moment gives a good basis and assumptions, and we will make sure that this is not the only law that determines this area, that through all the laws that are now coming into the process we will make sure that the provisions of this law become part of the provisions of these laws that directly affect the part of this space and this content that is presented through the law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101172	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101173	Thank you very much, dear secretary of state, that you were one of the best CEOs, and perhaps the deputy mayor, but then that regional self-government was making decisions with its own decisions that joint county hunting sites would get local hunting associations, and most often at the starting prices of the bounty, just to preserve these hunting associations because these hunters defended Croatia with their rifles and then it's time to go out in their garden for hunting because of what we did, and all of those funds from the poaching that were the County's income again after the public call when the landowners didn't report through a public invitation to assign to organisations for construction of hunting facilities, procurement.../incomprehensible/... and procurement of savages etc., co-financing of insurance policies and therefore we proposed an increase of not 10 but 30% for the county because you have now imposed additional obligations on them. I think it makes sense for the ministry to stay 30%, the finance ministry 30%, and the county's 30%, and everyone's gonna be around here somewhere. And that hunting will go forward and that's our goal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101174	Answer, Your Honor's Secretary of State, all right. This would lead to a debate on this subject, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101175	Final proposal of the Hunting Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 339, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the government submitted amendments. In accordance with Article 199 of the Treaty on the The Rules of Procedure on amendments submitted must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please vote. I find that most votes, 101 for, 15 abstentions and 2 against, have made a decision that we will conduct a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the representative of the proposer, the Honorable Željko Kraljejka, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture to explain the amendments submitted, there are 2, so please explain both amendments immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101176	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we will be clear about the 2 amendments proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The first amendment is referred to in Article 21(7), the proposed supplementary provisions shall be further regulated and harmonised in such a way as to combine the conditions laid down in criminal and criminal areas and to comply with the conditions to be met by the authorising officer transposing the hunting law with the conditions to be met by the recipient of the hunting rights under the provisions of Article 22(1), subparagraph 3 or it is proposed that no infringements be committed or criminal offences for the offences of illegal hunting. The second amendment was amended in Article 47 for reasons of clarity relating to the granting of consent to the game protection programme governing the protection and hunting of game on the surfaces on which the establishment of the hunting grounds is prohibited and the same proposed amendments show what happens when the Ministry's consent to the programme is omitted or rejected and against which acts of the Ministry may be initiated by an administrative dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101177	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. So I'm voting on the first amendment of the government, please let's vote. I find that with most votes, 76 for, 26 abstentions and 11 against the first amendment of the government and it becomes an integral part of the final bill. Now I am voting on the second amendment of the government, please let's vote. I find that he has received the required number of votes, 73 for, 27 he is abstentioned and 10 against and so the first amendment of the government has been accepted and he becomes an integral part of the final bill. We now move to a decision on the other amendments submitted by MP Alen Prelec, the club of representatives of HSS, the club of representatives of HDZ, the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA and representative Bojan Glavasevic. The review of the amendment was submitted by electronic means, once again I ask the Secretary of State, the Honorable Željko Kraljejski to be shown about the amendments. We're going to the first Alen Preleca representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101178	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the grounds that the minimum area of 500 ha of the need for the establishment of hunting grounds, open hunting grounds on land owned by legal and natural persons, is prescribed for the purpose of ensuring quality management of the hunting grounds on those surfaces and also allows owners of such areas of private hunting grounds to carry out measures on their own land to protect the occurrence of damages on agricultural crops. It is also unnecessary to prescribe the need for the consent of poachers related to the establishment of a private hunting ground on areas where a hunting ground has already been established since the procedure for establishing a private hunting ground is prescribed by the provisions of Article 16 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101179	Here you go, Comrade Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101180	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry you didn't accept this amendment of mine, first of all, I think we should be looking for a poacher so far to give consent to a new hunting ground because in this case, it's reducing the hunting ground, and I think that would be something that would compromise all that together. I'm sorry you didn't accept and I'm asking for a vote regarding this amendment of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101181	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to the second amendment of the Living Wall and the Power Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101182	... hunting sites are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which ensures the right to hunt land owned by natural legal persons. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It is not necessary to seek the consent of the owner, because on those surfaces only the right to hunt is entrusted to the law, which does not encroach on the right of ownership of each person.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101183	It's obvious, colleague Sincic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101184	Thank you, Chairman. We do not accept your explanation, the right of ownership should not be demoted or should be broken down as little as possible not only in this law but elsewhere. Your measures that we want to change by this amendment mean restricting the right to move landowners on his own land. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101185	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number three of the HSS Representatives Clubs, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101186	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendments to the allocations of funds collected from concession fees and the lease of hunting rights in Article 31 of the Law of the Ministry of Agriculture to units of regional or regional self-government have provided financial resources for the implementation of the law and the financing of measures laid down by this law and adopted acts, including the provision of hunting grounds, the protection and conservation of non-contracted hunting grounds, the compensation for game damages in non-contracted hunting sites, the execution of invitations to tender for hunting, promiscuity and the establishment of hunting measures and the implementation of measures to prevent game damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101187	It's an obvious colleague of Lenart's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101188	Thank you. We didn't expect the government to accept one HSS amendment, and I believe that this is taking almost all the funding from the districts for development and their hunting grounds, and I'm surprised the county community didn't respond to it, and I'm surprised that my mayor, Sisak Moslavina County, Žinić, has not responded either, although I know that the hunter is also organizing a hunting ball. In this way, the County is left without a certain part of the money they definitely need, and their obligation to implement hunting measures has been reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101189	So you're asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101190	We're looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101191	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment number five now because it's an amendment number. 4. withdrawn. It is the amendment of MP Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101192	The amendment is not accepted. The position of the promoter is that the provisions of the item in question correctly regulate the content of hunting for economic plans related to the management of the hunting grounds available to the public. All data from the Economic Plan Hunting Guidelines shall be made available to the public, except for those data for which the hunting producer of the economic base had financial expenditure. For example. These are data for climate, for rainfall, for forest temperature, for the biology of individual animals that are simply spent by the creator himself and part of the copyright, and all other data related to the plans, the numerous state of game, the shooting amount, the parent fund is available by the proposal of this law to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101193	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101194	Thank you, Mr. President. I am sorry that you did not accept this amendment because I believe that if the gamer is a public good, and it is, then indeed all the management data, including those you do not actually want to make publicly available, should be publicly available to Croatian citizens. So I don't think it can really be a commercial interest in public interest. If these data are not controversial, I mean why don't you make them available. It's very simple, here, I'm sorry you didn't, that you didn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101195	Are you asking for a vote? Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We're going to Amendment No. Six representatives of Allen Preleca.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101196	The amendment is not accepted. The ministry is unable to carry out the direct training of hunters, as explained by the applicant. Trusting in hunting training to the Croatian Hunting Union as a legal person entrusted with other public powers, we consider it acceptable precisely from the proposal's explanation that it is a sensitive issue involving firearms management, but which we consider to be the Croatian Hunting Union respecting its long-term existence and its action to improve hunting, extremely competent to implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101197	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101198	I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101199	Thank you, so let's go to Amendment No. 7th Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101200	The amendment is not accepted. The obligation of hunting authorities or responsible persons to carry out the hunt and all other hunting participants shall be to ensure the safe implementation and compliance with all the security conditions for the uninterrupted pursuit of the hunt. The other provisions of the Hunting Act provide for areas in which the use of hunting weapons is permitted, as well as the conditions and means of the use of hunting weapons, conditions and means of hunting, are further prescribed by following implementing rules, and, when drawing up new regulations, the provisions in question will be duly taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101201	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101202	Thank you. You were talking about uninterrupted hunting. What, though, about the uninterrupted enjoyment of ownership rights? Our amendment states, therefore, that the hunting authority is obliged to warn the owners of the land, therefore, on which hunting is carried out before the hunt itself begins. Again, we're going to degrade property rights, so you can work on someone else's land without even asking yourself, it's not acceptable. And another thing, if agricultural work is done on that ground, we still give priority to the owner and his work, rather than the money. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101203	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Eight of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101204	The amendment is not accepted. According to the provisions of Art. 79, century 2 in authorised operations and procedures to prevent the damage from savages that are obliged to take the damage, among other things, is the use of mechanical, electrical and chemical safeguards which, at the request of the damagees, is obliged to provide a hunting authorisation. By prescribed provision, the fishing authorisation authorities shall be required to provide farmers with protective means to prevent the damage from savages. This means that anyone who is a damageor may request from hunting authorisation a type of chemical agent that is in accordance with environmental certificates to apply to their organic production. In the event that such funds do not exist on the market, other mechanical and electrical appliances may then be requested to prevent damage to agricultural cultures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101205	Thank you. I think it is clear to everyone that it is necessary to ensure uninterrupted work and working conditions for farmers, especially those dealing with organic farming. If one surface contamination occurs, then we know it takes a long period of time to obtain certificates and keep the surface clean. Only one contamination could disrupt a whole series of status and funding, so I ask that it be further highlighted in this way by this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101206	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He did not receive the required number of votes, we are going to the latest, 9th Amendment of Representative Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101207	The amendment is not accepted. The final proposal for a law on hunting and infringement provisions of Article 92(1), point 21, which reads as follows: hunting or allowing game hunting on marsh habitats, using lead-sack charges is punishable. In accordance with the provisions of the regulations of the sublaw which are laid down in the way of the use of hunting weapons and ammunition, and which prohibits the use of lead ash in marsh habitats and which we call upon infringing provisions, we believe that we have qualityd this way, we have proposed an amendment to you under our final draft law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101208	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101209	Thank you, Mr. President, again. I'm sorry you didn't accept the amendment, because if there's no sanction for any offense, then it's not really a violation. Then, since 2010, when this is prescribed, or when hunting is banned by lead shotgun, the inspectors have not had a single case reported that they have reported someone for it. I mean, and why would he if there wasn't a sanction for something like that? You could have put it in the law, nothing terrible would have happened, except here, one thing would have been more effective. I don't mean to sound rude, but if something's forbidden, and it's not really prohibited, then is there any urgency to actually ban it? Then remove it completely, or properly forbid it. Here, I don't see the point then. I'm sorry you didn't appreciate this. This is not a question of some kind of worldview or some kind of politics, this is simply a matter of consistency if you have forbidden something that must be sanctioned if that ban is broken. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101210	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also thank the Secretary of State. Neither did this amendment get the required number of votes before the vote, the HSS Representatives' Club. Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101211	I thank the Honorable President, the HSS Club is looking for a break to consult on the vote on this law. Since we asked for this law to go into third reading, because it is far worse than the previous law, a law that does not have any instruments that would force hunting societies to pay compensation to farmers, because there are no more insurance policies that are mandatory to contribute to the contract. It is commendable that you have solved the rush of savages on vehicles through insurance, but farmers will be damaged in this way and will have, far more trouble trying to exorcise the damage caused by the savage on their crops. This law has been done badly and for small hunting associations which, due to the lack of insurance, will have to be managed in a variety of ways to pay for damages, which will not be able to be a major problem for them and those landowners without the right to hunt on whose common hunting grounds are established. The only thing that went well here was the big state hunting grounds where the tenants or the natural person or the legal person who, well, will simply not be forced to pay in any way the damage, because the law did not even put that unless the damage was settled on agricultural crops, abolished the concession from one of the hunters. So here I also appeal to the opposition to simply leave the assembly and not to attend the adoption of such a bad law for most hunters in small associations, but also for farmers who feed game, because there is always a rash behind the combines and that will suffer the greatest damage, and we know in what state agricultural production is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101212	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am giving a break from ten minutes to 13:09 minutes, and we will proceed with the vote. It's the 13th.09 o'clock. CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:09 Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so that we can proceed with the vote. I ask all MPs and MPs to take their seats so we can approach the vote. Okay. Here we go, so it cracks. Okay. Here I am voting the final draft law on hunting. Please, let's vote. I find that for the majority of 75 votes "yes", 13 "abstained" and 19 votes "against" the Hunting Act was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101214	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the International Institutional Cooperation Projects of the European Union and Technical Assistance Projects, second reading, P.Z. Number 388 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Foreign Policy. If the president wishes to give an additional explanation, I assume that, a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs Andeja Metelko-Zgombic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101215	President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, allow me to present to you the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Projects of the International Institutional Cooperation of the European Union and Technical Assistance Projects. International institutional cooperation projects include twing and taiex European Commission instruments, hence this twing, which strengthens the administrative capacity of third countries over a longer period of time and the taiex are short-term aid projects up to 5 days. In addition, there are technical assistance projects relating to other forms of cooperation that the European Union and Member States provide assistance to third countries in order to improve, improve the administration and adopt standards that exist in the legal acquis of the European Union. In these technical assistance projects they are financed from the European Union funds, as well as from the budget of individual Member States as well as from grants. The purpose of this law is simply to equate and regulate the provision of such assistance, the participation of the Republic of Croatia in such projects. These instruments were also used by the Republic of Croatia in its pre-accession process and now the Republic of Croatia as the last country to enter the European Union and which has the most recent experience has special comparative advantages in providing such assistance and transfer of knowledge and experience from the area of acquisition and implementation of the acquis. By participating in such projects of the Republic of Croatia, its institutions and Croatian experts actively promote their own, promote their own quality and advantages and membership and in the EU's end line of value. The main objective of this law is to regulate in a unique way the participation and rights and obligations of Croatian institutions participating in these projects as well as Croatian experts themselves. At this point, there is no single legal framework and by adopting this law, we believe that it will significantly improve and enable the participation of Croatian institutions and Croatian experts in such programmes. I would say this, introduce order, system and transparency in providing such assistance, participation in such projects, and in some ways Croatia will become more visible as Croatian experts. The bill formulates itself in a way that, to the least possible extent, norms the participation of Croatian institutions and Croatian experts, provisions have been incorporated that have proved to be very important, important, that they need to be regulated in one unique way. The interest in participation of Croatian experts in third countries is extremely high and this is a good opportunity for Croatian knowledge and Croatian experience to be well presented to third countries. So far since Croatia is a member of the EU, Croatian institutions have participated in the 21 twing project in 8 beneficiary countries and within... As many as 1,000 Croatian experts participated, there were 135 study visits from representatives of other Croatian institutions to learn about the way Croatia coordinated with the legal gain and fasted the results. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The benefits and advantages of such a law and the very participation of Croatia in its experts in these projects are both political and financial. From political permission only to draw attention to the strengthening of existing friendly partnership relations, the way for new modes of co-operation with other countries is paved. Croatian experts, the Republic of Croatia, more visible in these third countries and themselves, are strengthening the capacities of the Croatian administration, public and civil servants who, through participation in such projects, gain additional experience and knowledge themselves. When it comes to financial benefits, this is a good opportunity for Croatian institutions and Croatian experts to return money from the EU budget through participation in these projects, because participation does not require any Croatian co-financing, but participation is financed from EU funds. The benefits are so much that through participation in such projects and the possibility of other cooperation with those third countries in which this assistance is provided and the law itself specifically states that when Croatian experts and Croatian institutions participate in these projects, they will take particular care and promote the interests and policies of the Republic of Croatia in the countries in which they operate and that will be a good indicator that only a country that complies with European standards, which implements reforms, can progress in some integration process. Finally, by participating in projects and Croatian public service experts will not only raise their own quality but will also receive a certain financial compensation for what we believe, and allow for the retention of experts in the Croatian state administration and administration. Following all of this, we estimate that the adoption of this law will really make participation of the Republic of Croatia, its institutions and Croatian experts more efficient, more frequent, and in some ways Croatia and its experts will be able to make easier use of EU funds for this purpose. Following this, we propose that this House adopt the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the EU's international institutional cooperation projects and technical assistance projects. Here's your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101216	Thank you very much. Whether the rapporteurs want to, and, we have an excuse for one replica of the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with an associate. So here I will take advantage of the occasion and say that I took part in a twinning project between HZJZ and the Trimbos Institute in the Netherlands, it was called providing optimal health care for people with mental health problems and the consequences of all this is actually the beginning of the development of psychiatry in the community within the Republic, all of which allows us to take further steps, a 3B project that includes Serbia, Montenegro and BiH where Croatia actively participates through the twing project in improving the psychia in the community in our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101218	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate and the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club will speak for the Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101219	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, and I welcome the secretary of state, thank you for the detailed explanation of this bill, the final now proposed law governing the participation of Croatian institutions and Croatian experts in EU projects with other Member States with countries preparing for EU membership or with countries from the European neighbourhood, both the eastern and southern EU neighbourhood. In this final draft of the law, in fact, there are some minor changes to the first reading, largely not contentable, although there are, as far as I understand, recommendations from the first reading and from some conclusions of the Legislative Committee. However, it has largely not changed too much, and we believe that this bill will also enjoy broad support, as was the case with first reading. Of course, we all know that even before the adoption of this law, the Republic of Croatia is actively involved in cooperation projects, especially in Southeast Europe. We had many of these examples even before we became a member of the EU. While we were still in the process of accession negotiations with the EU. For example. The translation of the acquis has been granted to other Southeast European countries, and this has been a concrete form of assistance to these countries. Of course, we may be the most active in BiH that has not even started accession negotiations yet, but in meeting the questionnaires it received at the end of 2016, our experts immediately joined it. There are a number of such examples and also a number of bilateral agreements that the Republic of Croatia has concluded with the countries that are in the process of joining the EU. The question here could be raised whether this matter should be regulated at the legal level, whether it might have been possible to avoid it, that may be over-indulgence, go with some other act, perhaps some government decision. However, what I think is indisputable, which is that this area must in some way be institutionally regulated and the proposal that the government is now referring to the final proposal does so. So, with clearly defined roles of various authorities of the state administration. The rights of officials participating in these projects shall be laid down. It's all arranged by this bill. It is precisely determined that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs will be a national contact point for projects of international institutional co-operation. It sets out how information from the European Commission will be collated and what the decision-making process on participation in certain projects will be like. Therefore, the whole area is being arranged and it was simply necessary to do so in order to uniformise already existing practice. As with Twinning as an EU instrument for institutional co-operation, between public administration authorities, and in the case of the Tajeks as a short-term technical assistance instrument, the Republic of Croatia could indeed benefit from the transfer of knowledge to other countries in the application and implementation of the EU acquis. And besides forming bilateral relations through such projects, the Republic of Croatia is also getting a much better insight and impact in developing the process in the neighbouring region. I think so much that the declassified criticisms that can sometimes be heard at the expense of Croatian citizens who participate in such projects, advise or have done so before, advise countries that are now in the process of joining the EU. On the contrary, it actually strengthens our positions. Other countries, e.g. Hungary is working intensively, has experts in the cabinets, thus strengthening and affecting these countries. So sometimes in our public debate, it's out of sight, and it shouldn't be like that. In addition, relations with other EU members who implement joint projects are strengthened and, as pointed out in the context of this law, these forms of cooperation also lead to the creation of long-term links between institutions that prove to be very important in everyday work. Of course, we must not ignore the motivation of our professional staff in the professional sense, even in that financial sense, so, the staff who participate in either the twinning or the taix project. Finally, it must also be stressed that by taking over these EU cooperation projects, funds are withdrawn from the European budget, so, past and beyond our envelopes. The European budget can use funds to pay Croatian experts and cover the costs of Croatian institutions to transfer knowledge to countries, e.g. Southeast Europe. Better knowledge of this area by our experts, the lack of some important language barriers in most cases, all this allows for simpler work in all levels of public administration of candidate countries. And the very fact that the Republic of Croatia was the last country to complete successful accession negotiations, therefore, has more fresh experience in this process, increases the competitiveness of our institutions and our experts in taking over these projects. So much of this bill in a very concrete way contributes to strengthening the position of the Republic of Croatia within the EU, but also to the impact in the neighbouring region of Southeast Europe, and therefore the HDZ club will support this final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101220	Thank you very much. Next club of MPs... in the name of which the honourable representative Vesna Pusic will speak. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. I see that this law has caused interest in a relatively narrow round of MPs, but it is not a condition that man was foreign minister to be interested in this, it is, by my deep conviction, one of the best ways to promote Croatia and create positive long-term relations is this kind of cooperation. So projects that help candidates and potential candidates to join the European Union on one hand. But it does not have to apply solely to countries that are candidates for membership in the European Union, as the whole accession process of the European Union is largely conceived as some kind of leading state-building process or institution-building. And let's say a North African country like Morocco has used a whole series of solutions from the European Union's European processes from countries that become Member States without ambition to become members of the European Union but with a desire to regulate institutional infrastructure, especially as close as possible to co-operation with the European Union countries. Therefore, this is something that is actually a potentially more extreme export product that Croatia has. And that's knowledge combined with practical experience. Croatia also started this kind of cooperation and, of course, before becoming a Member State of the European Union and after becoming a member. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs formed an institution which we called the center of excellence that gathered people who participated in the negotiations in Croatia or the implementation of what was agreed in the negotiations so as not to lose that type of intellectual capital. Because, as you know, Croatia is one of only two thoughts of a country in which people outside to say the rope of state administrations were also involved, so not just people working in ministries. Of course, most of them were these people, but they used what I think was absolutely useful for a whole series of reasons, people from the academic community from the Institute of Commerce from different spheres of activity, who had specific expertise in certain areas. And it is very important to keep these people in communication in some way, keep them on the cup so that they do not lose that kind of knowledge and that they do not lose their interest in the whole process of the functioning of the country in the European Union. Because it's not quite as simple as that. We see this by many laws that come to us here that sometimes tell us that they are harmonising with European directives and we read them a little bit and we see that they may not actually be but are something tenth. Or that it seems to us that perhaps in a better way it could be brought into line with European directives. That is why it is useful for us ourselves without saying for the profiling of one, how to say the civilized, smart image of Croatia in the world and in our immediate environment but also beyond. That we grow this type of intellectual capital to say and keep and build on it a picture of Croatia in the world. This Law was absolutely necessary and I am very glad that we have come to this stage in which it will now be adopted, because no matter what we have done before, we have worked on this kind of cooperation. De facto we had to invent and invent different variants so that we people who weren't neither the military nor the police, for the military and the police had it legally settled so that we could direct them to possibly something longer, especially the problem, for a little longer, to participate in somewhat longer projects in other countries. So, let's say, as I know, water protection experts or experts for, I don't know, social care organisations, so an absolute civilian, so to speak, that we could instruct not only on a one-time basis, but on a fact-finding basis the way such service or institutions operate to participate in the implementation and evaluation of the organisation of such a service. So for civilians, it's always been difficult for us. How these people pay what status they have, how they're protected, in general how they function. And that's why I think it's very good, regardless of what when it looks abstract, it's a very specific and concrete thing and I'd say it has a positive effect on and picture of itself and especially a picture of us outside of our country. It affects if we are active, present and successful in such things. And this Law will enable de facto without some let's say improvisation or imaginations are functioning by our experts in this kind of projects of international cooperation, therefore funded by Europe or combined by the European Union and the state to so say the recipient of that type of service. It's also good, it's de facto and so far it's practically been but now it's formalized that there's a coordinating body at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia, it's called here, so we've called it a center of excellence, here it's called a national contact point through which then it's coordinated, whether it's running for individual projects, whether it's accepting projects and delegating projects to individual ministries, depending on the subject it's about. Based on practical experience, I would recommend that it also be accessed, I don't know if it's necessary to regulate it by law, I'm also, I'm not a big friend of reregulation, but it would certainly be good to make it in this process, or a list of people who have done this job well from different professions. Because you have people who may be very good at their profession but are not good at transferring these knowledge, so in working under such conditions. You have people who are great at it, who just have a sense of transfering knowledge and such people should in my opinion gather somehow in one place have their biographies, occasionally contact them to know that when it comes to, I don't know about organising a social service or about something from, specific from agriculture we have a man who is able to do this job or at least advise and recommend someone who would be good at it. By compiling such a list and such a list of quality experts that make sense to this kind of work, we are doing ourselves a potentially one service because these are the people we can use when in certain situations they were in the state administration or they were in some, I know, public service that is being financed from a budget like the academic community, such as different associations or chambers, which are gathering people who know something about certain areas. So the creation of such a list I think would be of long-term benefit for one purpose as well as for this other purpose. There are two things we have observations here, they're technical, and we've submitted amendments to that. So two comments, one refers to Article 17, which defines the conditions under which what is called a long-term expert, so a person who goes to work on such a single project for a long time. Conditions under which he can return to his old place. In order to get anyone of any quality and any purpose to go to do such a job, you must allow that person to return to his old job when he finishes his job regardless of what the old job was. Article 17(6) states that this person may return to his old place of employment but is then said if he cannot return to his place of work from which he is addressed he will be deployed to an appropriate second place of work for which he meets the prescribed conditions. It's a little cat in a bag as we all know who we're taking part in real life, so for which there are prescribed conditions, there can be a completely marginal place and a place that can even have the same pay but there's no sure the same conditions. And it can be a way to decouraging, to discourage quality people from participating in that kind of project. And to use that to promote the country, it really has to be quality people. Because if you screw up once, twice, three times, no one will ever want you again. Therefore, the amendment goes in that direction to add some type here with the consent of a person who has been sent as a long-term expert on a project. In other words, you can't have a man without his consent, possibly pushed into some seal somewhere after he comes back from such a job because like I said, it'll only discourage people from participating in it. The second remark applies to Article 19 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And that's exactly what the secretary of state mentioned here. It is my opinion that it is not wise to put into law the body of public administration or project manager, long-term expert, and the short-term expert involved in the project represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So what they need to represent is the ultimate criterion of the profession. Because our experts have to compete with Dutch, German, all of them by the quality of what they bring. It is absolutely logical and normal, even if the intensity, if a man does his job in a country, it is absolutely in the interest of the Republic of Croatia because it represents it in the first-class light, it is recommended by the Republic of Croatia for each of the next projects. So what experts are doing according to the top criteria of the profession in this case is their stay and participation in the project interest of the Republic of Croatia. We have given an amendment that thus modifies this formulation, not because they would think that these people would not work in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, but we think that to participate in this sharp competition, such a formulation can only harm, and that the best way is both best and best quality and most successful will work in the interest of the Republic if they work well. So if they do the best in that profession and at the highest levels of the profession within which they perform. So we recommend that these amendments be considered because they simply think that it contributes to that purpose, which is the purpose of this law, and that purpose is certainly positive and the GLAS and HSU Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101222	Thank you very much. We will now move to individual debates and here will be the honourable representative of Miro Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we have heard a lot from the promoters, so on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, from counterparts Stier and Mrs Pusic, a lot of things in this final bill. I wouldn't go into a lot of details, it's one technical law, which is like such a positive, because you should achieve what? What is necessary in Croatia, which is efficiency. We in Croatia need to strengthen the efficiency of state structures, including on the plan of providing technical assistance. Of course, in the judiciary, other segments, the judiciary has been very current these days in view of the protest in Vukovar, but in general this is a topic which is crucial for Croatia to strengthen Croatian institutions, the efficiency of Croatian institutions. So in this plan, we welcome this. I agree with my colleague Stier, yes, of course, the question is whether it was supposed to be the law, maybe we could have done it differently, is this less important now, it is important to make ourselves aware of the necessity of strengthening institutions and increasing efficiency. And we'll see in a few years, how effective it is on this plan. How many besides some stories in, said counterpart Pusic in the circles of "experts" people who are under foreign policy, how much Croatia manages to provide technical assistance to countries that are... for EU membership, or the countries of the neighbourhood of the south or east, we will see this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My impression is unfortunately, I only criticize myself, that we talk a lot, and we're not that efficient. So the first thing, it seems to me, which is very important is the thought of strengthening efficiency, which is why I welcome again on my behalf as a member of the HDZ Club for the adoption of such a law. The other thing that is somehow related to this law is that we may have been able to use this technical assistance in the past in some segments and better use this technical assistance that we are now going to need to provide in some countries that are candidates for EU accession, or countries in the southern neighbourhood or eastern neighbourhood. Especially in the economy. So this technical assistance refers to the economy, agriculture, internal security and environmental protection. Our economy is even more dependent on imports after joining the EU. We've increased exports, we're boasting, that's good, but we've increased imports more than exports. Especially since there is a colleague, Kleman, in the area of food and drink, we doubled imports. Of course because of tourism, but every other day we listen to stories from the former Yugoslavia, that we must be a country, that will produce food, that will sell, I don't know, whether it's food, to tourists in Dalmatia, in Primorje, in Istria or elsewhere, but we don't. Therefore, this is, the adoption of this law may be a small appeal to us, and our capacities, when it comes to exports, about strengthening Croatian companies on an international basis, because our companies, when they look at internationalisation, our businesses compared to the EU, are at the lowest branches. Because we may not have used enough technical assistance opportunities, which they have provided us, and are still providing countries in the EU, which have joined us before us in the EU. Or the countries they founded, founded the EU, then the European Community. So to conclude a positive thing is a good thing especially when it comes to our direct neighbourhood, BIH, Serbia, Montenegro, but also to southern Macedonia, Kosovo, Albania, there's really something we can show, we can be useful, but I would also say, we don't have to say that it's really an interest of the Republic of Croatia. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is those countries and in this direct neighbourhood to provide that assistance is also good for the Republic of Croatia. Because when you look at the brochures a little bit, these few "older" EU member states, I've read it a little bit, they rise up, how they help and how it's in the interest of their system and their economy. So let's be like that, let's get rid of some complexes, let's not think that we're gonna save the whole world, we are supposed to, of course, help other countries, we're a little author, but first of all we care about ourselves and we want to strengthen ourselves. If we're strong and strong, if we're effective, we can help if we're weak, we can't help anyone. I also thank you one more time, and I support this law on my behalf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101224	Thank you. We have multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you mentioned here that it was less important if this was law or something. I think it still needs to be taken care of, that this should be something else, a regulation, that is, if we want to be effective and as you said, then this kind of matter would be, there would be no need to pass the law, but it could also be passed by a certain regulation. It is logical, however, that the Parliament boasts about the production of the Law, but it seems to me that we have come to this stage that we are being over-normated, to produce too many laws, laws that are often conflicting in certain provisions, and that the time has come for us to create a particular body that will deal with the reduction of these contradictions within the laws produced to resolve these own blockades that we produce.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101226	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101227	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Tudjman, I will be very happy to form with you an informal working group that will think about how to rationalise the number of laws in the Republic of Croatia, which is your idea, which is otherwise your idea, so I don't want to be, whether, an intellectual thief, we need some kind of guillotine design in that good sense, means when it comes to the number of laws in the Republic of Croatia, there are fewer of them, there is absolutely agree with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101228	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101229	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Kovac, you emphasized how the Member States of the European Union, and so did Croatia, when they enter these assistance programmes, then they do so, of course, to help that receiving country and help, but also in line with their own national interests. I think that we need to further raise awareness of the fact that our experts are entering the public administration system, so the Ministry, the state administration of those countries, which are of course vital interest to us, that we have influence in this area, and in this respect we should still be aware of the importance that, when these people return to the Republic of Croatia later, that this expertise, and the links they have achieved, these communication channels, we should keep, we should network and thus strengthen our communication with those countries, but also our influence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101230	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have also heard from Mrs Pusic that we remember how some others have helped us, within these twinning projects, so that some of these relationships are being nurtured today, it is positive, and we should also have those people, who will help and who will assist in these projects, also animate and, of course, stimulate institutionally that these links with these countries and after they have stopped their engagements. That's how you build a state, that's how you maintain relationships, so you have stronger relations with other countries in the world, on that plan we're still a little thin if we compare a little with some other countries that have a longer tradition, but I'm a long-term optimist that we're going to change that a little bit for the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101232	The next replica of the respected representative, Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just before you said we would not save the whole world safely, but I would have paraphrased "Americana first, Croatia first." We definitely have to take a lot more risks around some of our phenomena in society and deal with these problems. You also listed exports, you cited tourism, that I think, definitely, through a tourist offer, we can call it conditionally said, internal exports, increase. All the time we've been listening to stories about connecting Green and Blue Croatia, there's a lot of room for progress, and I think we're just at the beginning. Several projects and during my stay at the ministry have been launched, but we have not yet seen the realization, I hope we will see in the future. There is definitely a lot more courage to set foot in these challenges because by realising these projects, we will all benefit greatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101234	The next replicas of the respected representative Vesna Pusic, oh excuse me, the reply of the respected representative Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As counterpart Kleman said absolutely would, these are essentially implies, what when Donald Trump said "Americana First", so listen, so I guess logically that Americans, America, are first in place. So in Croatia, all of us, especially those who are here, in the Parliament, we have sworn, we have the Constitution in the first place, so we have Croatia in the first place. That's understood, so I absolutely share that thought, Mr. Kleman. And the other thing, look, we really need to be much more efficient, I've been talking about efficiency, going to pieces, talking less. George Bernard Shaw, what did he say? "He who can, he does. Whoever can't, that surrenders." And we have a chance to do something, something to do for this country, let's get to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101236	The next replica of the respected representative Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101237	Thank you... Actually. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But a replica into two things. From personal experience for this we need the Law, there may be plenty of places where we don't need it, but for this we need the Law, because it is one of the most important things, that the Parliament participates in this, that it is not some regulation, provision, regulation, but that the Parliament supports that kind of activity. And secondly, it refers to promoting Croatian interests. Well, of course, it is, in my opinion, the smartest and most efficient long-term way of promoting Croatian interests, is to export quality intelligence, so quality help to someone to advance their institutions. The only question is whether this expression verbis should be written in the Law, to promote Croatian interests, because someone will be glad to take now an expert who, as he advises on water management, will promote Croatian interests or will take the hope of the Netherlands. S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S-S.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101238	The answer of the esteemed representative of Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101239	Mr. President, here it is. We agree with Mrs Pusic that it implies that we are fighting for Croatian interests, there should not be any special writing, I agree with you. But, unfortunately, it's at least my experience, there's not enough maturity yet, then there's a lot to write, we haven't reached one level when it's meant to be, but I'm glad that we agree that all those who work for our country or who represent Croatia in one way or another, that spread Croatian interests, that's basically banal, in our case, maybe not yet, and it's really time for us to start exporting our sports minds a little bit, and even on this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101240	Now, on behalf of the motionary, something will say to the respected secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101241	Here, thank you. I would really like to thank you for this debate and for the given views, opinions, comments and I think that we can all agree that this framework, as proposed, is indeed and should be welcomed and will contribute to the provision of legal, technical and other assistance by Croatian institutions and Croatian experts in the frameworks of the assistance of the European Union. When it comes to the legal framework alone, perhaps just to say that when we were working on this draft, we were thinking about which legal act would be appropriate and then it was concluded that it was really necessary for this to be a legal framework because we wanted to cover this law and in a unique way to regulate the participation of institutions and experts, not only from the public service but also from the public service, and as stated in Article 2(1), points 2. So the idea was to cover a wide range of people, a wide circle of institutions and Croatian experts, and therefore it was necessary to regulate it by legal act at the level of the law. We agree with that comment that, of course, in the implementation of this law, and the truth is it already seems, it will be necessary to continue to work on the list of Croatian experts and on a specific feed back in which each individual expert will participate in a programme, and to which extent the excellence of his work can be assessed. This already exists, so there is a list of experts as well as their résumés and will continue to work on it, and only so will Croatia's power, and Croatian institutions rightly respond to the requirements, when we report to the competition, and of course we will strengthen our competitiveness. When it comes to amendments, we will look at them, but perhaps only in advance when it comes to long-term experts, they are experts who are more than 60 working days behind the job and by law they can be up to two years, and then when they enter into this sphere of labour-resistance, they are already applying certain general rules that apply to the public. And when it comes to top experts, that is to say that excellence is the one that, I would say it is really understood, and it is mentioned in that same article, paragraph 1, we will look at the proposed amendments, then the Government will determine them. Here, one more time I really appreciate the debate. I was pleased to hear that opposition representatives, and the ruling parties support this law, especially those who have special experience and knowledge in this area, may well be able to assess the value of this law. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101242	We have one replica of Agent Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101243	Thank you very much, Vice-President, the Honorable State Secretary, so in pre-accession time through technical assistance, we have used the services of many experts from the European Union and we must admit that they have killed, except that they have passed on their knowledge to us, but they have recorded the situation in the Republic of Croatia, our production resources, our market and now we see that they are successful in exporting their products to the Republic of Croatia. And they need to be congratulated on it, but they need to learn from it. Well, here's my question: how much we use our network of ambassadors and people employed in the embassy, are we really guided by the excellence that we delegate, because the impression is often heard, in the conversation with the owners that they work too little in the service of promoting the economy of Croatia and Croatia's products? Here, what are you doing in that direction and is there anything that can be fixed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101244	The reply of the respected State Secretary Zgomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101245	This law will be a framework for participation of Croatian experts and, as stated in the legal framework itself, they should be, since civil servants, public officials, work in institutions in which they have public authority. Their participation in these programmes and projects implies that it appears in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. There were also comments from other MPs, it's true, and you yourself said that going to some third countries gets to know their structure, get to know the management layer of people, get to know relationships, get a good insight into how it works. Our experts thus help these third countries transform, implement reforms in some way, strengthen and ties that are good and for further political co-operation and for economic co-operation We also have the economic activities of our embassies that would be complementary. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101246	Thank you very much. We will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are obtained. The following item is not ready for discussion because the home working body has not been discussed, and the proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) 2018/302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 February 2018 on the resolution of the issue of unjustified geographical blocking and other forms of discrimination on the internal market on the basis of nationality, place of residence or place of business established clients and amending Regulation (EC) 2006/2004 and (EU) 2017/2394 and Directive 2009/22/EC, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 458.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101247	Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the EU's international institutional cooperation projects and technical assistance project, second reading of P.Z.E. No.388 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Voice and HSU, I would like the representative of the proposed State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Andrej Metelko Zgombic, to be shown about the amendment submitted. There are two amendments, I apologize, first is Amendment No. 1. Voice and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101248	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, Amendment 1. Namely, the Law on civil servants has already regulated the situation when a civil servant goes to certain projects, even has arranged to stay at work and when returning, returns to the same workplace, and under certain conditions to an appropriate workplace. We have put the same solution into this bill and we believe that this proposal fits into the existing legal framework and that it should not be changed. We remain with what the Government has proposed in the final proposal of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101249	Thank you, the obvious co-worker of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101250	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary of this amendment, we actually wanted to clarify the fact that when people go back to ensure that they can return to the same workplace with the desire that the more quality experts really represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia, that it is of interest to leave and not to leave and do such jobs, so please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101251	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No.2. The same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101252	Nor amendments No.2. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. In particular, Article 19 of the proposed Law in paragraph 1 already provides that Croatian experts who go to these projects are obliged to carry out these tasks in a professional manner and in accordance with EU rules. In this respect, the more the final draft of the law states how these tasks should be carried out, the very following rules of the profession, and we do not consider that there is a need in particular in Article 19(2) to add once more that they are mandatory to comply with the top criteria. Similarly, we believe that the statement in paragraph 2 is correct and when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is understood that Croatian experts, when they operate within these projects, act in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Practice has shown that it is good to make such a rule that implies that it is still good to do so directly and prescribed in the Law itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101253	Thank you, pal Dark-Taritash's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101254	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, this amendment is on the trail that the interest of experts, Croatian experts, to represent the interest of the Republic of Croatia, to be of the highest quality, to have their best quality of knowledge in favour of, of course, the Republic of Croatia in all the frameworks represented, and precisely because of the practice we went with such an amendment and we believe that this amendment would not in one way harm but would improve the statement of the law, so we are extremely sorry that you did not have an understanding of it and I ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101255	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. And I thank the Secretary of State. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to vote on the final draft law implementing the EU's international institutional cooperation projects and technical assistance projects. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 119 votes for and 6 abstentions have been passed by the Law on the implementation of projects of the international institutional cooperation of the European Union and technical assistance projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101256	As I said, since it is not ready to discuss it today, we will discuss the following point, which is: - The proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing a Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child is proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on the basis of Articles 44, 87 and 161. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and Article 6. The law of reward for promoting the rights of a child. The Government delivered an opinion, the applicant submitted an amendment based on Article 202 before the start of the debate. The Rules of Procedure shall become an integral part of the proposal for a decision. Does the president wish to further explain the proposal that, the Honored Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101257	I thank the Vice-President, here is a very short one on the basis of the provisions of Article 44(2) and Article 87(1). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and of Article 6(2) The Law on Prizes for the promotion of the rights of the child, the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament has just submitted a proposal for a decision as previously stated. So the Law on the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child is prescribed that the Republic of Croatia grants a reward for promoting the rights of the child for exceptional achievements in the protection of the welfare of the rights and interests of children. The prize is awarded as a reward for life's work and as an annual prize. Each year one prize can be awarded for life's work and up to three annual awards, and is awarded in the form of special recognition and in money. The awards shall be awarded on 20 November each year as a reminder of the date of adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child at the General Assembly meeting of the UN General Assembly. The provision of Article 6 of the Law stipulates that the award is awarded by the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child appointed by the Croatian Parliament at a time of 2 years. The Committee makes up 5 people of famous public workers who deal with issues related to the rights of the child, and in the Croatian Assembly, they are proposed by the parent working body or a specific committee that I represent here. The term of office of the current members of the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child continues until 6 October 2019 and since Mrs Diana Topčić-Rosenberg, a member of the Committee for the Prize, referred to the Committee for Family, Youth and Sport as a parent working body to resign from membership of the Committee for Awards, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision amending the Decision establishing the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child in a way that, instead of Mrs Diana Topčić, we appoint Mrs Ivana Jedjut Boric. The Committee also accepted the statement made in the opinion of the Government which proposes to delete point 2 as unnecessary because the mandate of all members of the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child is predetermined by the very decision which is why we have made the amendment, as the Vice-President stated at the outset, and I ask you to accept the same thing as the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101258	Thank you, if the Prime Minister wishes to further explain the opinion, yes, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Mrs Margareta Mađeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101259	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, distinguished MPs and MPs, 6 October 2017, the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child was established, as one of the elected members of the Committee of Mrs. Diana Topčić Rosenberg referred to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport as the home working body of the Croatian Parliament to resign on board, the parent committee proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Decision amending the Decision establishing the Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child in a way that, instead of the previous board member Diana Topčić Rosenberg, a new member of Ivana Jedjut Boric was appointed. On this basis, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Proposal for a Decision establishing a Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101260	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Your Honor. Here is the decision proposed to the Croatian Parliament by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, so the decision to amend the Decision establishing the Committee for the Prize for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, given that one of the members of the Committee of Mrs Diana Topčić Rosenberg has sent a request for resolution to the Committee. The amendment proposed that Mrs Ivana Jedjut Boric be appointed as a member of the committee instead. As we have already heard, the government has given its opinion supporting the decision to amend the Decision establishing the Committee on the Prize and Promotion of the Rights of the Child, however, the Government has therefore warned that point 2 of the decision should be deleted. And here we see the motioner and gave the amendment to which point 2 of the decision is deleted since, that the mandate of the board members, or the work of the committee, is prescribed by the previous decision. In view of the above, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this amendment and the addition of this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101262	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. I would like to conclude today's work, we will see each other again at 9:30 tomorrow, and the first item will be the Declaration on Amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 378 and Final proposal of the Health Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 379. Have a good afternoon. The session was interrupted at 16:27 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-29-0.u101263	Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing a Committee for the Promotion of the Rights of the Child, is proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, the debate is closed. I am voting on that proposal. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 79 votes for the ZA, a decision has been taken to amend the Decision establishing a committee for the promotion of child rights in the text as proposed by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. We're moving on now with the agenda. Just a few information, colleague Maras, and then we'll hear from you. We would now discuss the report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2017. Then if we have time for the report of the Executive Immunity Commission, we have one request for the removal of immunity. Then we'd have a debate, clubbing, free speech at 1:00. At 13.30 is the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and at 15.00 we would then discuss the proposal for a decision to set up the Investigation Commission for Agrokor, at 15.00 hours so that you can plan. By then, we should have done all these other points and the Presidency of the Parliament. Here you go, colleague Maras.
