ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83178	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:46 AM]] I can't hear myself. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Local, Regional, Regional Self-Government. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by Agent Veljko Kajtazi. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Please, Goran Maric, Minister of State Property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed MPs and MPs. Here, we have before us the Law on Governance of held property in a second reading. In the first reading of the debate, 26 memories were held this year, where I promised, that all suggestions, which are lifelike, implementing, which will improve the law, that we will accept them, many of these suggestions we have accepted, you can see it in the final proposal of the law. Over the past century, Croatia has suffered, several ownership historical conversions and confiscation and abductions and nationalisation and return, and repossessment, and years of isolation and aggression against the Republic of Croatia have been in view of the historical context, confusion, youth, and for the status and fate of state property, unarranged and even executed. And at that time, better say, a storm of kidnapping and release. And today, here we are, 28 years after the independence of the Republic of Croatia, still in the Republic of Croatia, we have areas where we have no land books at all. And where we have land books, still, a large number of properties are listed as social property, or as general reward property. Although, all that was happening seemed spontaneous, simply well-intentioned, when it came to state property, much was complicated. And for Croatia as a country with young experience, independence, the property was a great stone of temptation, but also a path, a sinking. It determined the nature of the later outbreak, the current situation, and the current relationship in society. One philosopher wrote a long time ago that society and people would start acting reasonablely, only when they had exhausted other possibilities. Here, it's finally time for reasonable treatment of state property. Finally, it is time for the solution of one era to be not the problems of the next era. And many of the problems we have today have been solutions to previous times. And it's no problem when someone doesn't see a solution, the problem is when you don't see a problem. And that is why this final bill of law is the result of the perception of the problem and the answer to the problems of managing state property. He is the new legal framework for the activation of abandoned assets, he is a tool to foster economic activity, he is a tool for demographic impulses, he will give wings to capital, he will stimulate the entrepreneurial spirit and morality and he will affect the growth of entrepreneurial optimism. It is prepared by a verifiable approach not to be indeterminate, not to be a collapsing of hypernormatism, but to serve real needs and real life. The public debate was almost a year ago, first reading in January and today, here, after 4 months. After first reading, second reading. As I said, all well-intentioned life-form suggestions, we've put in a final proposal. The most important changes in the second reading, compared to the first reading, were that the Ministry of State Property, manages and mountaineering homes, where no legal framework was envisaged, was intended for the management of mountainous homes. This is what we now foreseeed by this law, that it is the Ministry of State Property, and the information works, only one institution has in Croatia, a list if it is correct, a list of all mountainous homes, all mountainous houses, it is the Croatian mountaineering alliance, which I held a meeting some day and which will help us greatly in the management of mountainous homes and houses, and there is no record of mountain homes in any ministry. Of course, the consequences, unsettled relations with mountaineering users, this bill will not affect them, disrupt relations and the historical tradition of the Croatian mountaineering alliance, mountaineering societies, but will legally regulate clearer relations with the users of these homes. In the first reading, there were a lot of suggestions and discussions on the subject of allowing for the assignment of a unit of local self-government of real estate for the implementation of housing programmes and social promotion of housing. I remember Mr. Agent Ante Sanader saying that to many others. Here, we have put this bill and this possibility into the legal framework. Also, the remark was not solved for 28 years by the land deposit problem. In fact, many cities, municipalities, paid compensations for confiscated assets to natural persons over real estates that entered the core capital of companies and cities and municipalities that had no contact with this process, were the only ones who had financial difficulties. So there are municipalities and cities that have even paid several times the amount of their annual budget, and this bill allows for their compensation to units of local self-government for the damage they have suffered and the compensation they have paid at the request of the Republic of Croatia. It is also one newspaper that is an extended council of the Board of Directors of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales in a way that now the Minister of Justice is a member of the Administrative Council of the Centre for Reconstruction and Sales and a representative of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. There have been little misunderstandings in the public that some are just waiting for circumstances so that they can write negatively about the ministry and the management of state property because, due to the change in direction, many relations in society have been disrupted and ceases to use lawlessly and without compensation that has been founded for 28 years. Then they even called me that I made it possible for the President of the Republic of Croatia to have a member at the Board of Directors at the Restructure and Sales Centre who really didn't have anything, I don't know where they could draw such a conclusion. Most of the attention and debates in the first reading were the topics when units of local self-government sold land to natural and legal persons in good faith because at that time they were convinced that they were owners of the property. It later turned out that the owner of this property was the owner of the Republic of Croatia and the first reading provided that the unit of local self-government which gained property benefit on the basis of these purchase contracts of the Republic of Croatia would pay compensation within 20 years. Many MPs also objected to such a solution that the local self-government unit should not because they were also registered as owners of the property in question or had documents based on which they were convinced that they were owners. This proposal, in the second reading of the final bill, will not have to restore the benefits that have been obtained by selling this land or property, and sometimes they have been created at dozens of disputes over such transactions, because of such purchase contracts, many apartments have been built on such land, many apartment owners cannot be registered as owners, and this final proposal of the law solves hundreds of such cases, while at the same time the local self-government unit that they have already spent for other purposes will not have to return the bankruptcy benefits of the Republic of Croatia. In the final proposal, the newspaper said that the markets, too, we also heard in the debate that we did not put ex-legate markets to become units of local self-government, so now the markets will be like this with an ex-legation of ownership of cities and municipalities. The key solutions normally passed by the law, only briefly, where it will benefit most for the Republic of Croatia's budget that the ministry will manage the properties where the camps are no matter where they are located. So far, four institutions have managed camps, it was the Ministry of State Property, Ministry of Tourism, Croatian Forests and local self-government units. Significant revenues from the state budget will increase. The tourism ministry manages 75 camps, the Ministry of State Property with 14 camps. Total income in 2017 was reached 19 million kuna for 75 camps of 14.4 million square meters. On 13 camps, the state property ministry made revenue in the past year, a million and 200 thousand kuna for 600,000 square meters in the area of camps. In previous years, the Ministry of State Property has not achieved a single kuna of revenue for the management of 14 camps, and in 2016, only 107 thousand, and in the 12th month following the establishment of the established Ministry of State Property, and in 2017, it has already reached 3 million and 200 thousand. If prices were applied, the Ministry of State Property only agreed one contract on a 100,000 square-square-square-sized camp, and it was for that camp that titled that the minister manages state property as well as his country's own property, and that he gives invaluable camps and property. The information works, that 100,000 squares camp was rented at 4 months for 2 million and 200 thousand kuna. The total price reached is 22 kuna per metre square. If the price were applied to all camps in Croatia then the income would be 330 million kuna, not 23 million kuna as much as it is now. 14 times higher prices were reached on the one camp, which agreed on the price of the Ministry of State Property for 4 months 14 times than at all other camps in the Republic of Croatia, no one mentioned these 74 + 13 but only that camp contracted by the Ministry of State Property, 14 times the price of all the others combined. And you can imagine what interest it is then when only by this price in 4 months would we have 300 million kunas in higher revenues in the state budget compared to the prices that have been achieved for years. For this reason, campsites are a great potential and the activation and establishment of ownership of camps, long-term solutions used by camps, will benefit the most from companies themselves and the state budget but this is also the biggest incentive for the development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. This law will allow the sale of apartments and garages to the persons who use them. I'm ashamed to announce the incomes of apartments and garages. They're almost gone and in 100 years, the rent we're paying, now that we've got income to rent these apartments and garages, we couldn't get the value of those garages back. Then economists know what it means and what it means to launch such an asset. This law prevents subletting or technical cooperation contracts from being negotiated, so far it has been a rule. It is almost as if one who has purchased space has never used space, it has always been leased or contracted on technical cooperation and avoided the legal framework, now it is clearly defined and cannot be misused. The right of ownership is recognised for buyers who bought real estate in a public tender from units of local self-government, that is, for the part where units of local self-government will not have to recover the benefits of the Republic of Croatia. The units of local self-government are transferred to the property of ex-lega over real estates which were in nature until 31.12.2017. were schools, homes of health, hospitals, kindergartens, cemetery, morgues, monuments, parks, squares, playgrounds, sports-recreation facilities, sports playgrounds, social homes, firehouses, memorial homes and markets. The law allows for a property function for which property-legal relations such as former resorts on the Croatian coast that have failed for 28 years and which are dangerous, pose a danger to health and the environment. Every law should be life-threatening, enforceable, clear, should express general aspirations, must promote the benefits of all, must correspond to the interests of the nation. And that's exactly who he is. He has passed the procedure as a rare law in the Croatian Parliament so far. Most importantly, he is not the law as I pointed out in the first reading, not the law of encrypted intent, not party law, not the law of interested groups or brotherhood, or cartels. This is the law that respected the spirit of the people, which created the property. This is a law that has respected the spirit of time and circumstances in which we live, it is simple, balanced, strong and healthy and therefore I ask the representatives to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83180	Thank you very much, Minister. We've got 12 replicas on his display. First is colleague Glasnović Zeljko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83181	Dear Mr. Maric. I've heard some words I've never heard in the House before from the ministries, it's nationalization, confiscation, and it's the core of all our problems about it being kept quiet here, quieted by some titijugends, heirs of the party and constantly descending smoke curtains. That's why 5% of the land is arranged here, that's why Benkovac doesn't have any land books at all, that's why there's chaos in the catastro and it all started in '45. A year. It's a silence. Until it's settled, it's nothing. Here's a quick question, what about the property of SUBNOR, the union, the socialist youth, the KPH? Do the people in this House who have taken possession of themselves in Zagreb, from Split to Zagreb, want to identify themselves, locate themselves, close themselves, and wish to take possession of what they have stolen? I know some of that kind of character, and since I haven't worked for the Secret Service, I'm not going to talk about it right now, I'm following you on the walk, if I have to kick some ass, I'm at my disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83182	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83183	Thank you very much, Mr. Glasnović. This Law on State Property Management is only enforceable in accordance with other laws, and we face great difficulties in applying our law because, for example, when we withdraw the issue of payment or the claim to return to the property of illegally populated property, these proceedings last for 10 years and nothing happens. There are also those who register property on companies and on natural persons and that property is not theirs. Here we are three days ago, I think I delivered a request to one of the state's attorneys to have the E.R. take all activities to get the property that was registered to a company that didn't enter the core capital, enrollment in the Republic of Croatia. It's 5,000 squares up the coast at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83184	Thank you, Mr. Maric, thank you. The next replica of my colleague Tomislav Zhagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83185	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, here's listening to you I came to the conclusion and especially in the last part when you said that surely the citizens of the Republic of Croatia didn't get anything, let me put it this way on the muppets, they all created it. Today, what we call state property was once social property, and it was created by the work of our people. And I agree with you that these 27 years have gone in one direction so that from the Croatian Privatisation Fund through the State Office for State Property Management can only be understood how to transfer state property to private hands in a more non-transparent way. We can't get away from that. This law is, in my opinion, even too soft. If you succeed in one part, which is the creation of a database, the creation of an information system in which not only a list of assets will be visible but its actual value, then you will succeed. But I'm afraid it won't be easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83186	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83187	I'm not an idealist. I'm a realist. But if the Ministry of State Assets makes 10% possible in the next three, four years, it will be such a terrible impact on the state budget that billions will account for revenues in the state budget. And as for transparency, here's the thing. Never in 28 years has such a contest been announced in such a transparent and clear way. And this is the only way the Department of State and I work with their associates. As far as the complaint is concerned, 1325 complaints have gone to return to property illegally used since 2014-2018, no proceedings have been returned and no real estate has been returned. This law solves this because other institutions do not function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83188	Thank you. Next is counterpart Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83189	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. By listening to your discussion, it could indeed be concluded that we have honey and milk flowing or that honey and milk will flow, and everyone's mouth is full of financial, functional and spatial decentralisation, and it is precisely this law that should lead to spatial decentralisation that does not lead to it. The right to resolve or brake further economic development of the Republic of Croatia is unsettled property-legal relations primarily with the Republic of Croatia, starting with units of local self-government, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, farmers and all citizens. And instead of being revolutionary, if you had handed over to the units of local self-government all building land that was covered by construction lines until 24.7.2011 owned, we would have to go back to the centralization model where the heads of the local self-government unit have to move you by the sleeve to get what, or land to develop all according to strategies... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83190	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83191	Your Honor, I'm not a revolutionary. I have enough years, knowledge and experience not to be a revolutionary in this period but to think clearly about what is in the interest of not only one microlocation, one municipality or one individual but in the interest of the Croatian people and the Croatian state. To hear what the mayors of a small town say. I was also recently in Osijek and Rijeka and Split and Zagreb. They certainly accept this Law and cannot agree with your findings that the existing law is much better for local self-government units than this Law. This Law is a huge step in relation to local self-government units than it is existing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83192	Thank you. Next replica, Lalovac Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, there's only one short perhaps technical question. You said this law would try to solve the piled up all these problems that are part of our past and there you were talking about the activation of abandoned property and resorts. I come from a place like this where there's a lot of these resorts that are owned by neighbouring countries, and that's where we said for the last time that it doesn't get in the way of ownership, and that's what I mean by a good message to them. However, to fully clarify here when you rent such assets, means, a long lease, whether such companies will also mean, which they own, they are able to report to international competitions. So, is there going to be an international competition, is there going to be a tender that these companies that own them can contact themselves because that's how you allow them if they can't come here now to sell that property or sell it because there's still a ban on availability, that they report and that's how you solve that problem? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83194	Thank you, fellow Lalovac. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83195	Dear Representative Lalovac, you know best the range and reach of this solution because you are from a place that has 17 such properties. Among them is an abandoned hotel with 250 rooms, which cannot be recognized today that it was once a hotel. The head of the municipality... Your place is looking forward to the application of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just one brief correction, not the property of those who are users, they're not owners. We had three options. Or continue like this, which is inadmissible that after 28 years that it continues to be so omitted and ruined or sold, and no property-legal relationship has been settled, then it can't be sold. The only solution is the lease, doesn't affect property when the property is founded, when it's... He's in possession, he's got refurbished real estate, he's got property benefits the moment he... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] register as owner and may be competed users of the former in a contest to be publicly announced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83196	Thank you, Mr. Maric. Next fellow Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83197	Thank you very much. Minister, you said you were in bigger cities. Yes, you were in Split and the military Dračevac, which was destroyed maximum, and that is exactly how the government refers. So in 2009, while Mayor Kuret was, and Prime Minister Sanader gave the military to the city of Split. And now you've just repeated it in 2018. It's just that it creates perception, and the military is destroyed. Also, are you familiar with perhaps the peninsula of Osjeva in Makarska, which is owned by the state, 22 hectares that will be concreteized. Did you know, and did, with the Castelan greenhouses where there could have been a dozen acres of production. You're talking about good wishes. Your only wish here... 7 million kuna, you've been increased by the power of signature, and good wishes are paid for by way of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83198	Thanks, buddy Bull. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83199	Dear Representative Bulj, there is no repeat case... Because now one part of the military is donated to the city of Split, and one part of the military is donated to the archdiocese of the Split Macarska, as it is in line with the spatial plan and they have a deadline until which they have to redefine that space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the fact that someone used to give and someone didn't take advantage of it, that's their problem, but this is what we're dealing with right now. And it's not repeating... As for the maritime goods of the Ministry of State Property, it does not manage maritime goods, but I agree that maritime well-being is one of the most valuable assets of the Republic of Croatia and that it would have to be adopted, amend the Law on the Sea Good to know who manages the Maritime Committee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the Castelan greenhouses, I've been informed that the Committee of Believers was yesterday and the Ministry of State Property has... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83200	Thank you, Mr. Maric, thank you. A colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83201	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister. It's about state property management, really one very sensitive business, a job that's been trying to get rid of for years, it's actually, I'd say, silver, which has an RH, which it doesn't manage properly. However, my question concerns you with mountaineering homes, between the two readings is in the Law in accordance with Article. 3. On the basis of intervention, i.e. observations were included mountainous homes, which were built on state land, and did not convert and convert anything else, either in the forest or on agriculture, and the parcels needed for the regular use of these mountaineering homes will be established. What happened to the mountain houses? Does it mean that not everyone in social property conversion has gone to something else, they will need to establish a plot that serves for regular use, which was the reason for mountaineering homes to be entered and pronounced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83202	Thank you MPs, before answering, respected MPs and MPs, it is our honor to welcome his Excellency, Mr Ciao Ge Ming, Vice-President of the Permanent Committee of the National Congress of the People's Republic of China, who is visiting members of the delegation on a working visit to the Republic of Croatia, so let us welcome them... Thank you very much, we continue with our reply to the replica, here you go, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83203	The esteemed MPs, Mr. Taritash, and between the first and second readings, we noticed that there were mountainous homes, which no one had managed. They had contracts for mountaineering homes, with institutions or legal entities that did not own or had no contracts with anyone and of course we had to install that to manage it, otherwise it would continue to be so without the legal basis of use. This will only allow mountaineering homes to be managed more efficiently, in the longer term and to be able to be better equipped with them. But if we know that we do not know the list or there is a register of mountaineering homes, except in the Croatian Mountain Alliance, which we got from them the other day, at the meeting, then it just shows what kind of relationship it was to this property for 28 years. We want that property to be managed effectively, because it is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83204	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of the Slaven Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83205	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, I agree with your consideration, that the state property, all these years, has been disastrously managed, there is actually no insight into the scope of that property, so of course that's the basic thing. I believe that with this law, you mean to bring order into this area, however, it will certainly be at that stage of centralization, therefore, insight into the state, create one great power and I wonder if you believe that the law provides for enough mechanisms, some public control, because I personally have no problem with you, but we know that in Croatian history we had people who were in positions who did not trust much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83206	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83207	Representative Dobrović, often mentions some excessive powers of the ministers. The powers of the state property minister are neither contrary nor greater than other ministers, and only for the sake of examples, the directors of many agencies have more authority than the minister of state property. So what is the authority that gives the minister, that the abandoned, destroyed property, which damages and costs the Republic of Croatia announces a public tender and that the commission and associates order, that the authorised judicial expert carry out an assessment by law and publish a public tender? Is that some kind of power? It's a responsibility. I am not afraid of responsibility, and I want everything that has been destroyed, abandoned or kidnapped, to try to further work and to make functional use of it so that state property can benefit everyone in Croatia, the entire Croatian state, and most entrepreneurship, the economy and the state budget. If I'm going to do that, well, it's not possible to accomplish everything, because there's so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83208	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Next colleague of the Vesligai Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83209	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, well, what I can say is that surely this law represents a certain step I will say in managing state property, where I have an observation, is that it is not given that clear and concrete one signal to determine what property is of strategic state interest, and what property would be transferred to units of local self-government to units of local self-government, to units of regional self-government. For what? Because it has shown that municipalities, cities, counties are much more efficient in managing it. I welcome a certain step, but I express one doubt as to how much this law will be what you said to the ministers in your debate, life-long and enforceable. It's a crucial matter and a crucial question of this law. I have a lot of reservations about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83210	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83211	Your Honor, counsel. Circumstances are more complicated than they seem at first sight and who is not deeply immersed in this problem. And who deep down in the problem needs a decade of experience and knowledge to determine what it is, so that he can come up with an appropriate proposal. And in real reading here when we were listening and reviewing all the phonograms from both the SDP and the Most and the HDZ Club, except for the criticism that it was too much power or that it would not win results, that it was too ambitious, I didn't notice anything that you suggested what should be put into the law to make the law better. But as far as local self-government units are concerned, and when you say they're better managed, I'd disagree. You have cities and municipalities and I meet them every day, I visit every county and they don't even have a record of the property the cities run.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83212	Thank you. Next replica, Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83213	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. Here I have listened carefully to every word of yours and read this law, many times mentioning units of local self-government and I must tell you that I like this law, it is in any case a step forward, but I will be skeptical about the enforceability of this law and whether it will be implemented. I speak for myself, and I also believe in the name of all the mayors and mayors who brought to AUDIO in DUDDI and the ministry a hundred kilos of paper and requests, but literally not all of them are sinking together and nothing has happened. Here's as I've known in the last nine years, and there are people with experience who haven't done anything in the last 15 and 20 years. This law is good, I will say good for the law when I see it being implemented, not to pass the law with every new leader who comes to the head of such an important body without implementing anything. Here's to it, I've actually brought hundreds of kilos of requests to AUDIO, DUDDI to the Ministry, and I haven't received any real estate that my citizens have built.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83214	Thank you, Comrade Prelec. Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83215	Your Honor, counsel. I know that there are tons of requests for an item, and I even know that many of those tons that have been brought no longer exist, I can't even find them, but we have to face it. It is precisely this law that proposes how to get out of these solutions. Will it apply? It will be the first day after the vote next Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83216	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83217	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. The establishment of this ministry makes it clear that order of economic exploitation is in motion, especially by adopting this new law that it will be even more and much better. What is state property, we know well, are shares, business stakes, these are properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, owned by the Ministry of Security, other institutions and other legal entities. When putting particularly real estate into economic function on the basis of the sale of privatisation or in some other way, can the path to the outcome of all necessary permits be shortened because investors often give up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83218	Thank you. Before answering, let us welcome the students “Verna” who are also with us today. Well, hello and welcome. The answer to the line, please, Mr. Maric. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83219	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Kirin, I'm glad you understood the essence of this law. I understand the ambience of the Croatian Parliament, I have spent a lot of time here, but it is one thing to talk about the law here, and the other is when I meet with the mayors and the mayors, so when you hear what they say about the law and when there are no cameras. There is no one who does not praise him, there is no one who has not said thank God that this law is coming, thank God this is a law that brings much to our city and to our community and no community harms, no city is hurt but only benefits. But I understand that and that she wants to take advantage of a little political stage that's legitimate and I understand that kind of policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83220	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83221	Your Honor, Vice President. Minister Maric, you are right when you say that the Croatian judiciary and the DORH are the main brakes of complete case resolution, especially when it comes to the lack of documentation and data on cadastral particles. Why is that, I cite the case of Renat Majnaric where there is great abuse in his case. He says: “In order for an individual to recover the land that was taken from him thanks to the network of criminals from municipal courts, grantshops, catastra... circles must launch expensive and long-term private lawsuits, and on the fact that counterfeiting of court seals is a competent state attorney’s office deafens himself and is not interested in disclosing the prosecution of perpetrators. The best evidence of corruption and counterfeiting and forgeries in the judiciary, the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia, for a solution that deprives foreigners of land from '86. the year." So everything in this book is written, it needs to be read and there will be a lot of solutions on all cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83222	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83223	Representative Culej, it took nine years for a court to launch an exercise in order to return real estate to the Republic of Croatia because it was illegally used for 20 years by one user. Nine years on purpose, and when it was a powerful verdict, if it hadn't been for the Ministry of State Assets and a direct call, the question would have happened today. Based on what is someone listed as the owner of a company if it's not real estate? I'm based on nothing. It couldn't be registered and many were registered. And here's the one that we were just saying about the case that we started the return request. It's registered against the law. I'd like to know who he is who did it and whose proposal, whose address and whose incentive he did it on, because he has no legal basis to do it. But we're bound to fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83224	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Tulio Demetlika, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83225	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. I want to look back at that part of your opening statement where you were talking about camps. You said that camps are a great potential, that they will significantly increase the revenues of the Republic of Croatia and that you are sorry that 25 years have practically not been used. However, I would like to draw attention to this and I would like to respect your willingness to address the problem of this land used as car camps, but it should be said that tourism companies that are certainly willing to invest and invest in the restoration of these camps in order to raise competitiveness and quality, that local self-government units in the areas where these camps are located must also invest in infrastructure to monitor the rise of this competitiveness and quality of the entire activity, the entire destination. And that's why I think through the rulebook we should take care of the distribution of that income that's planned 100% for the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83226	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83227	Thank you very much. Representative Demetlika, in the procedure and already the working group had the first meeting to amend the Law on Campings and Tourism Land so that this law would be resolved finally, and this is an assumption, this law is a premise for resolving the problem because this law now provides that the Ministry of State Property is managing the camps. Camps are really too valuable for the Republic of Croatia. 15 million square feet of land. Most of them are by the coast, the most precious coast that is Florida Europe. And that is the potential that must be used not only for the state budget but also to enable investment for campers because they are blocked. They'd invest, I can't invest. We are in the announcement of this law, it will go in the direction that long-term can be used to buy or buy this camp in order to enable and create a presumption of long-term investment and financing of car camps and tourist activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83228	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83229	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I appreciate that you have accepted the fullness of our suggestion, which concerns, in particular, Article 68. In fact, by eradicating the provisions of Article 68, you have shown an understanding of the problem based on which not all units of local self - government that have worked specifically over the past 25 years have been punished, taking action where investments have been realised and where new jobs have been created. I will be free to take the liberty of saying that by erasing the provisions of Article 68, you have finally introduced a new standard, which is to appreciate the work. The work of all those who have said, in the last 25 years, that is why my congratulations, not only to you, but to your associates for listening to our suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83230	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83231	Thank you very much. Representative Sponza, it is only in accordance with the promise of the State Department to consider all rational, sober proposals, life-saving proposals, which will help implement this law and it is one of those ideas that we have respected as 95% respected the remarks that were made in the first reading without the horizon on which we came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83232	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Marija Jelkovac, Chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, Darinko Kosor, Chairman of the Committee on Economy and Tulio Demetlika, Chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. No, great, that way we can open up a debate and start a debate on behalf of the clubs. The first application is on behalf of the club MOST independent lists, an application from counterpart Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83233	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Before the very analysis of the draft law in my address, I will look at state property and governance in general how it is implemented in the area of the Republic of Croatia. State property isn't just land, there's state-owned companies, companies. According to FINA's annual financial report register, in 2016, Croatia had 1149 companies in majority state ownership scattered across all economic sectors. The worrying fact is that this number is the largest in the last 10 years and that only a year earlier, means in parallel in 2016, 2015, Croatia had 1064 companies and only 85 companies in majority state ownership. Of the total number of companies in 2017, more than 600 companies are controlled by the general government but in the majority ownership of the unit of local and regional self-government and of the majority ownership of the companies operating, managed by the central state, 49 of them are classified as a company of strategic interest or under special state interest although the difference between those two categories is indeed unclear. The gross profit of companies owned by the state from 2005 to 2016 amounted to €29.5 billion cumulatively. However, more than half of that amount is generated by HEP, INA. INA also noted the biggest loss in the period from 2013-2015. The lower results of most of the government-owned portfolio indicate the need for further audit and for the determination of their future in the government portfolio. On the other hand, 20 of the biggest losers in the state portfolio in the short term since 2008-2016 achieved a cumulative loss of 16.8 billion kuna. It particularly highlights Petrochemy, all members of the HZ group, and the Rijeka-Zagreb highway. In particular, it concerns the fact that the government has not collected the planned amount of profits in the budget for one year, and there is a constant difference between the payment of profits in the state budget after the government's decision and the actual profits paid. That difference was also over a billion kuna in some years. Part of normal responsibility lies with the government itself, which made budget payments decisions too late, after companies had already made a decision on the distribution of profits and closed annual balance sheets. In other cases, businesses independently pay less than government decisions without any explanation, and some are completely free of deposits in a budget such as Croatia's lottery. The revenues from the payment of state-owned companies is an unstable source of revenue from the state budget when we see one range that oscillates only 117 million kunas in 2007 to 1.3 billion kuna in 2009. The state still plays a leading role in the market through its shares in all major companies that are not controlled on the stock market and are not market-valued and the state as the owner participates in a large number of different economic sectors and does not show a clear strategy that we have seen in these previously listed figures. We can say that the prevailing strategy in state-owned enterprises can be described by amending an old Roman principle, divide and rule. Thus, after parliamentary and local elections, companies are divided among the winning parties that effectively become the rulers of these companies. As its kind of hunting ground, the hunt is open until the next election. The parties shall set up the administrations of undertakings or people out of trust or members of their own parties, making business and decision-making in state-owned enterprises subject to full political control. It's the same state property. State-owned enterprises are therefore the largest source of tangible political economic power by the ministries, especially considering that the expenditures of state-owned enterprises are higher than the expenditure of the state budget and at the same time less transparent. As for the analysis of the bill, Minister Maric announced an increase in revenues, i.e. the law will bring 1.4 billion kuna into the state budget this year. It's unclear how, it's unclear what strategy if we know that the state property management strategy expired last year. We hope the Minister's announcements come true. In the law itself, which should be extremely clean and technically and by definition, there are general terms, vague phrases, not all clear rules that should be defined by far until the last point. As for concrete comments on the articles. Article 11(2) provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, on the basis of the powers laid down in specific rules, have the exclusive power to dispose of the property referred to in Article 2. 3. of this Act and when it is not provided for by this Act if it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Now we have to ask ourselves a question which is a special interest in the Republic of Croatia. Where this is clearly defined, so that the text of this article itself acts as a kind of rhetorical question in a law that should not be unclear. Article 16 states that state assets are managed in accordance with the principles of economicism in order to achieve the economic, infrastructure, social and other clear goals of the Republic of Croatia. That's exactly the mention of those general phrases of economics because there's a question of what it is? Is that in the account of profit, loss, cost, which are the basic parameters that would really say that management was economical? Article 18 The Croatian Parliament shall adopt a State Property Management Strategy for a period of 7 years on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What date will the strategy be adopted, what about the last strategy, or what about this year if we know that the strategy from the former term has expired? The annual management plan for next year shall be adopted by 30 November of the current year, based on Article 19(2) of the annual management plan for next year, until 30 November of the current year. It means 2019 will be a plan by the end of November of this year. If the plan is to be made, and I don't know what projections result in an increase in revenue of 1.4 billion kuna if we know the plan isn't there. Article 20 The government of the Republic of Croatia reports once a year to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the annual management plan for state property until September 30th of the current year for the previous year. This means that we will know whether this Law that we adopt in 2018 works. No appeal is allowed against the CERP solution, but an administrative procedure can be initiated. Why a complaint is not allowed against the CERP solution is also a vague, vague response. The Centre shall be financed from the own funds of that asset from other sources. It is not explained what makes up its own resources, whether there are fees, what amount of compensation, what size of fees. However, there is one thing in the Law that says that a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and who has a pre-graduate, graduate university study, specialist, graduate, professional studies, can be appointed to the Director and Deputy Director of the Centre, at least 10 years of work experience after having completed his studies in the acquired professional preparation. It's that general phrase that we've been saying, because the one that's being prepared here can be a doctor, can be a doctor, can be a veterinarian, doesn't have to be a legal or economic profession at all. So it's so generally set up, we really don't know which professions can be the future person, one of the most important agencies. The administrative board of the centre has 9 members and makes it among other representatives of representative associations, trade unions, several levels without voting rights and representatives of representative employers' associations of several levels without voting rights. Why without the right to vote? We see that the intensity and increase of the members is good, but I think this is just one act of transparency in the new bill. And another item, Art. 29. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the decision on the availability of shares and shares of legal persons of special interest to the Republic of Croatia, whose estimated value is lower or equal to or equal to HRK 7,5 million and by the minister. We used to have in the existing law, that the minister could decide up to a million kunas, now we raise that figure to 7.5 million kn. I personally trust Minister Maric, but what will be behind him? Which one will be the next minister? Furthermore, I will also look back at my presentation, as I said in the opening statement of the prime minister's proposal, we believe that unresolved property legal relations, are the impediment to further economic development of the Republic of Croatia and exactly the largest number of complicated property legal relations, both entrepreneurs and craftsmen and farmers, including local self-government units, have management with the Republic of Croatia. We believe that the right to resolve property legal relations between the Republic of Croatia and the local self-government unit should be provided for by the donation of construction land to cities and municipalities, which on 24.7.2011 was undisputed within the construction area, as this would allow for the availability of construction land, in accordance with the applicable spatial planning documentation. It is not normal for mayors and mayors, their citizens, their entrepreneurs, craftsmen, citizens, to bring spatial plans, elected representatives of citizens to verify the monetary city councils, but it is only a dead letter on paper, because in construction lines, the unrewarded part, most of the land is managed by the state of Croatia and then, in fact, because of this situation, where it is not the property of the local self-government unit that enters into long-term disputes, unsettled property legal relations, so it is no wonder, when you look at the area, here, specifically from the Dalmatian mountain that we come from, that there are no larger entrepreneurs, when there are no areas where they would invest, or, the entrepreneur has to enter into a relationship in the country over 4 to 5 years of resolution that kind of property legal relations. For the same money, he can go to some neighboring country. This is not inconclusive, as it wishes to be imposed, because the basis of the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction enables land to be parceled in accordance with the boundaries of the construction area, whether valid or previously applicable spatial plans. So that these two laws can clearly distinguish the construction area from outside construction, which would allow for the resolution of property legal relations. There are a few other things in the law itself, which are truly undefined, which is an article, which says that direct sales can reach land, state land, can come towards a person who is in law to his illegally built structure, but does not say, what value of a particle, can come directly to a contract. In particular, individual citizens can protect, retail, 50 m from the sea their building, a 30 square house and according to the valid spatial plan, can ask the state to directly accommodate over 4000 square meters, if the spatial plan, and the city, respectively, allows it. So no maximum and minimum amounts are defined. The minister is clear to know that management of camps, hotels and golf courses goes into the portfolio of the Ministry of State Property. All the money that comes from selling that land goes to the state budget, and we mayors, mayors, units of local self-government, we'll have to build a municipal infrastructure, to these camps, to the hotel, to the golf course. The question arises from what? The value of the municipal contribution is often much less than the value of the infrastructure works, and normally if this were to be left to local self-government units and the income to be sold to that land, this infrastructure could be made easier. Similarly, you have a thing in the city, the old town, where we have a big investment in tourism, where the mayor can't build an access road to the camp, and there's no way, because there's not enough fiscal capacity, the state will be arriving by selling land, but the mayor, the mayor won't have enough money to build an access road. So we really believe that this is a law that should be significantly more sophisticated and revolutionary if we want to solve much easier property legal relations between not only the local self-government units of Croatia, but also between all those people who want to invest in Croatia, first of all entrepreneurs, because let's not forget that entrepreneurs are those who are opening up new sustainable jobs, precisely because of new sustainable jobs people can stay in Croatia, not over 150 people from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83234	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List Club is represented by Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83235	Dear Vice President, I thank you. Honorable ministers with associates. My colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the IDS Club, PGS, I want to point out at the beginning that the adoption of the new Law on State Property Management was necessary, since the current law or so far state property management was at a level far below what we as a state must seek, and that is primarily a quality legal framework that allows faster economic growth and development. On behalf of IDS, PGS, I must repeat to RI that we are constantly stressing the importance of adopting this law and the importance of effective management and putting into function of unused state property. I would also like to express my satisfaction that the proposal between the two readings accepted some of our suggestions, suggestions that came from our club by the Association of Cities, Association of municipalities, community of counties, units of local self-government as well as other parliamentary representatives. In particular, it is important that the applicant gave up the disputed Article 68 or its disputed provisions which were particularly unacceptable for local self-government units during the period between the two readings. Persevering on such provisions as were proposed would put us in a position to punish those cities and municipalities that have actively worked and built over the past 25 years. In that sense, I would like to believe that when this law is passed and we will enter into force to conclude this story once and for all and that it will not be repeated in the future that someone will remember that the cities and municipalities could ask for the money they acquired by selling the properties that were registered as their property in the land books. However, when I talk about the problem of property relations and mutual claims between the state and the units of local self-government, there is one problem that we have not solved by this law, but we have delayed it, and the promoter simply ignored it when it came to the drafting of the law on state property management. It is land that was within the construction area during 1990 and 1991, which was considered by long-standing court and administrative practice to own cities and municipalities. In recent years, however, judicial decisions have emerged, which, after more than 20 years, have begun to be treated as agricultural land owned by a state that creates legal uncertainty and raises a number of issues with potential consequences and damages for all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia. We at the IDS Club, the PGS, the RI think that when this law was passed, it was necessary to settle this issue in order to resolve it in a clear and unequivocal manner. Regardless of how we have received the answer, this issue will be resolved by the Law on Tourist Land and other building land not estimated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Because now we have a situation which is subject to various interpretations leading to unnecessary and expensive court disputes between the state and local units that no one who seeks an effective public administration should be in the interest, since both the state and the cities and municipalities spend their resources and to dispute each other in courts. I would also like to point out that in the programme of the Presidency of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, which will chair from May to November 2018 as one of the four priorities of its Presidency, Croatia has set decentralisation in the context of strengthening local administrations and self-government. This is another reason why this law needed much stronger and more thoroughly to move towards decentralisation, and this is unfortunately lagging behind. The municipalities and cities often speak, as well as the regional self-government that they are the bearers of economic development in our country. With this law you can just give cities, municipalities, regional self-government more freedom, more trust, I will tell more air to be as effective as possible, that their innovative projects can be realised as soon as possible. Efficient management of state assets creates a new value for the community, and thus ensures the prosperity of cities, municipalities, counties and thus the entire state. The proposed legal solution was once again not brave enough to allow local and regional self-government units to manage property owned by the state, but not to mention, which are not of strategic importance and interest to the state. This means that the state will continue to implement the procedures of putting unused assets into office, and representatives of local self-government as well as interested investors will still have to run to Zagreb and wait for solutions of state bureaucracy from Zagreb. It is necessary that property is given to the management and availability of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in whose area that property is located or to carry out decentralisation of State-owned assets which this final bill did not provide. So I will repeat what I said and at first reading, that what is not of strategic importance for the state should be transferred and given to the management of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. I believe that long-term practice of abandoning decentralisation in situations where it can be applied is not good at all. Every time it is possible to apply decentralisation in some law, it is unfortunately missing. This law only partially allowed real estate to be made available for the benefit of units of local and regional (regional) self-government without compensation and in cases where cities and municipalities make a request for which the law does not prescribe a time limit for giving a reply, and in addition, no criteria are laid down on the basis of which the competent ministry will decide on the requirements, I am talking about Article 45. Such behaviour is not completely transparent and I believe that the applicant should certainly have prescribed a time limit for giving answers as well as clear and unambiguous criteria. We are therefore interested in when the Ministry's work report will arrive on this body at the Assembly that how many pending cases there are in the ministry and how long the average time-consuming process is going to take. Because we believe that in the ministry, what we have heard is a large number of cases accumulated, and I think that ministry should have been resolved in a way that some jobs are left to local and regional self-government. It would also refer to the provision of Article 8 requiring units of local self-government to make and make a spatial delivery plan to the ministry decisions on a spatial plan with a call for the ministry to submit a request for the development of the plan, which can only further slow down the process of making them. In the end, I would conclude that this bill is only a small step forward, but certainly insufficient. In view of the fact that the past law has been a deterrent for putting into service the non-use of state property, I welcome the adoption of a new law, but note that we will give our final court on this law when we vote, bearing in mind that our club will submit amendments in the direction of further improving this law to be a modern law in order to be at the side of developed European countries when we talk about decentralisation of state-owned real estate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83236	Thank you. Next debate, colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Minister with his associates. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the Final Proposal of the Law on State Property Management and since the second reading is that we have already supported this bill in our first reading. I can only say that the final draft of the law was largely respected by the Government or the Resolute Ministry, followed the suggestions, proposals and remarks of a number of actors who participated through the overall process of law making, and in particular we appreciate the suggestions, proposals and remarks sent by parliamentary representatives and individual clubs here during the debate on first reading. It is clear that the activation of state assets is a prerequisite for the economic development of the state, and then, clearly, the collection of public finances in terms of better budgeting. We have heard it during the presentation of the Minister this morning, and also before, how much and how much resources could be made in the state budget if only 10% of the provisions of this law that prescribe the regulation of state property management could be made to the state budget. We therefore give full support to the Minister to implement not only the law in 10%, which would mean a great deal for the revenue side of the state budget, but rather that this law, which we think of in the club, was extremely well designed where procedures were shortened, both in the resolution ministry before in the central state office or in the agencies in which the State property was being treated, so these proceedings will significantly speed up the activation of state property because the procedures, powers were CERP, either its bodies, or any other public bodies in whose jurisdiction it is dealing with state property. This fact of shortening procedures will contribute to the activation of state-owned assets, and this acceleration of the activation of state-owned assets has a basis in the new provisions that are extremely good for me. As we have already participated in the debate in the first reading, however, it may also be necessary to specify the key solutions that have already been highlighted in the first reading or proposal of the law when defining the concept of state property where the status of camps is finally resolved, regardless of whether they are on building land, whether they are on agricultural land or on forest land, so that the Ministry of State Property manages them in the future. The issue of a large number of unsolved properties, I read somewhere when we're talking about this unactivated state property that it's 330 former military premises located on over 50 million square meters of land, that it's 3470 building land of a total area of 429 million square meters, that it's 3860 business spaces of which 930 are empty, that it's 210 illegally used, of 80 camps, thousands of apartments, garages, etc., etc. So this is an extremely valuable property that this law now allows for its activation, and then, by defining certain provisions, it needs to be shown that this can indeed be accelerated. For example, in Article 41, where it is said that housing will be sold to the persons who use it, if it is the person in uninterrupted peaceful possession. Mr. Minister, I would just say here that in relation to the first reading, it seems to me that in a certain way we have complicated this article 41, and that the continuous peaceful property was a definition that would allow the ministry to act more easily in solving and available to these properties better than the one that is now in the law that speaks of legal property for example for more than 5 years. Furthermore, what is also very important is that the law prescribes that the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are leased or leased, and that the tenants cannot be subletted and that lease or lease contracts are terminated if the property is given to the third person for the use of what is very good, thus making it tighter, more quality available to the entire state property. What is particularly important, what is pointed out, is that it solves the problem of acquiring ownership of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, which natural persons have acquired from units of local self-government. Such persons shall be granted the right of ownership if they have bought the property in competition. That's what we said during the first reading that it's good, so now it's defined in the second reading. Such fees and those resources that the units of local self-government have received and if they have sold to third parties in a public tender, more units of local self-government under this law do not need to compensate the Republic of Croatia for what is clearly very important for all units of local self-government. It is good that you appreciated, it is very good, on several occasions in the first reading we mentioned that the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia on 1 January 2017 were in the nature of the school, the homes of health, hospitals and other institutions whose founders were units of local or regional self-government, ex-legation based on this law, becoming the property of the unit of local or regional self-government used by them, and that you, as a matter of fact, extended the time limit in which data should be provided to the Ministry to give a tabular statement not from 31 January 2018, but from 31 January 2019, because I was saying it on several occasions knowing the procedure followed by this law of the unit of local self-government that they could deliver a document similar to the issue of a tabular statement, that they would not actually be able to realise them, and on that side I believe that this is very well. and it's important and will allow local self-government units to handle it. The law allows it to be placed in property functions for which property-legal relations such as former resorts on the Croatian coast have not been resolved for years which have failed in a way that these properties will be able to be leased in the long term, which will eventually put those properties into office. I think that this will allow you many units of local self-government across the Adriatic, especially in my constituency, and it will certainly be worth a lot because it will enable you to arrange these resorts and these facilities abandoned, it will enable employment, it will enable investment etc., etc., so that it is a great solution for me because for years, this problem is taking place, these objects are devastated, they are usually in the centres of tourist resorts and settlements, yap often empty and that activation is very, very important and the procedure itself is as we can see, very simplified. What is still changed in relation to the first reading is the possibility of putting into the responsibility of managing mountaineering homes, there we, as well as the club, will give an amendment to include houses and other facilities, and not just mountaineering homes, because when it is prescribed in Article 3 of State property, then all possible types of real estate or objects that appear in reality should be specified in this article where the concepts of state property are defined, in particular. It is good to introduce itself, it was our proposal of the club, the obligation of legal persons of interest to the Republic of Croatia on a regular annual basis to report to the Ministry, and when it comes to plans of quarterly, semi-annual and financial reports with a one-year plan, etc., where these legal persons remain, they are persons of particular interest to leave these reports to the Ministry, and other legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia, and it is very important that whoever owns or manages, that they are regularly familiar with the financial operations and otherwise with the business of legal persons, whether they are of particular interest to other legal persons who are partly owned by the Republic of Croatia. The amendment refers to the composition of the CERRP Management Council where you have introduced the Minister of Justice and the representative of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia so that the President of the Office of the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is further strengthened the position of the CERRP itself and its Governing Council. I think that was also a word, we welcome, I think that all units of local self-government are satisfied for which all of the purpose can be donated to the units of local self-government and what is the purpose, can be the purpose of land for which the purpose of state land, state property is passed on, given to units of local self-government without compensation, and are then clearly included in the housing programme as well as socially stimulating housing, which is, in addition to the already existing opportunities to donate land or real estate, very, very, very important. We also welcome the fact that units of local self-government should not deprive the Republic of Croatia if they have the basis of a public tender owned by the Republic of Croatia for what they have received and now they do not need to forward them or depriving the Republic of Croatia, this would be good because this would mean a significant burden on local self-government units which they could not really carry out. I especially want to welcome, this will also come up with the approval of local self-government units especially in Hvar, and local self-government units in Split-Dalmatia County, it seems to me that it was Baska Voda, then I think that it was also Makarska that was obliged to damage former landowners who and who have compensated for the land that went into conversion and who took over the hotel houses or their owners. They now have the right to claim compensation from the Republic of Croatia for what was really not an obligation, and we have repeatedly argued, it was not the obligation of units of local self-government to compensate owners, and that these owners paid the RH property they had taken over from companies, so it is very important and it is good. So, most of the time, Mr. Minister, you've respected the remarks that we raised during the debate itself, you've respected the specific requirements of the local self-government units because this is how we relieve them of the potential financial obligations that would have been made if we hadn't come with this final bill, it's very important. Further donation was made to these same units of local self-government or state-owned property for the purposes of which are very important and in terms of demographic reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, whenever it comes to social care, housing, or when it comes to encouraging housing. So, mostly all those remarks that we proposed during the debate are adopted. The HDZ advocates' club will make several amendments by the end of the debate. I hope that the government will adopt them and, therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, we support the adoption of this Law which we will clearly, during the vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83238	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83239	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The HDS Club, HSLS and HDSSB will support this Final Bill proposal because we supported this same proposal in our first reading. In view of the fact that between the first and second readings, a number of remarks and proposals made were adopted, apparently, that he would still experience some of these presentations in the amendment section today. There's no reason not to support this bill. I will say that I wish this law had been passed before it was 10 years and over because then and personally in its business, it would have been much easier to solve some of the problems that we have been struggling with and which this law now prevents and practically solves in advance. Of course, I'm talking about this relationship between state and local self-government, I'm talking about the ratio of real estate to local self-government units by the state. There is always a lot of talk here about this particular problem and there have been a lot of objections and suggestions, views that it would be best if local self-government were to overwrite all those assets that are not of strategic interest to the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is located in the area of the local self-government unit. A little bit of an analysis and thinking about it and linking it to practice, I don't think it would be right after all, and in fact some units of local self-government would be damaged in some way. Why? Namely, when this property was created as social property, it was a different territorial structure in the Republic of Croatia than it is today. Today in a new territorial structure, this one since '93. In the year, some units of local self-government have the privilege of having some facilities in their area that were then owned by former municipalities, while some units that were formed by former municipalities do not have such properties in their area. So they're practically in that part damaged. I think this Law in this final part has done a lot towards local self-government of positive shifts and that units of local self-government should not be satisfied, but, in fact, accept such a bill and act on it in order to make what of those automations that are set out in article. 71. The law was taken over as soon as possible by those social facilities and properties that could be granted to them automatically by this Act, and in the second part to take advantage of the possibilities of this Law to use, for certain other needs they have in their field, the ability to donate land which, in this case, will be dealt with significantly faster, more effectively and easily. The second section mentioning the management of shares and shares and the establishment of representatives in management bodies of legal persons of interest to the Republic of Croatia states that each resolution ministry will propose from its portfolio, depending on the legal person representing those management bodies. I'm not sure that's the best solution because I think after that, the Ministry of State Assets is not in principle what should be answered if it's not well managed by these government stakes. And it will eventually be responsible. Thank you, Minister. This, in a positive sense, was also a suggestion of thinking. So if you say so okay, well... Here, we've solved this dilemma, now I don't have that dilemma anymore, but I'd like to say a few sentences about the overall state of society. [[You can't hear it.]] Did we, in this created political hysteria in a society created mostly in this room, create out of this assembly the preconditions for the implementation of this Law? Do we, in creating this political hysteria, allow the Ministry to implement this Law? Because we have a situation that the worst thing is when a body of state, a minister or government or anyone else makes a decision and when that decision begins to be implemented. At the same time, such a decision is being attacked. At the same time, mud was thrown at her before there was any chance of seeing the effects of such a decision at all. And, of course, everything stops, everything stops, and most of it doesn't have results, and then again, they follow up in that same political hysteria why something hasn't been done. In the discussion of the first reading of this Law, I was just talking about the courage of making decisions. Today, a real man acting as minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia must be foolishly brave to make decisions, especially decisions concerning some real estate, shares or something else owned by the Republic of Croatia. Because right now, he's risking the attack, he's risking the attack right now. And I'm asking all of us and I are asking ourselves if we're thinking about doing really good to this country, to this society when we're doing that in a way that we're trying to get political points together. This Ministry is now, and it will be even more under special increase in this section because it's about real estate. And when this law goes into effect, it will speed up the availability of real estate and other shares where the state has ownership and it is certain, Mr. Minister, that you will have to prepare yourself well for this political hysteria that always appears and is very persistent, and you are, in the extreme case of that, to endure all of this and to get to the implementation of this Act and to put as much of the property owned by the Republic of Croatia into office as possible, but of course also the processing of those ownership shares in various companies. I believe this law will have a lot of support. It will be voted upon and I believe that it will result in the 3.4 years, as you said in the opening statement, to launch, to solve, and to do a good job at least 10% of what the Republic has and what it has, and to prepare those 90% well to do so in the next phase and to become operational not only to fill the state budget, but to put this property into operation in order to create new jobs, create a better atmosphere and overall development of the Republic of Croatia. With these arguments and arguments, I repeat, our club accepts this bill although I'm not sure it was in that article, I think it was an art, just one second, it's a peaceful property and a legal property term. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance I think it's okay. And in art, it seems to me 70 or 71 mentions a peaceful property and giving a lease to those who are in peaceful possession. In my opinion, a peaceful property could have been entered illegally, by force, literally so. And he's been in that property for five years, and now at the lease, if he's five years old, no one's ever touched him in it, he'll have the advantage of winning. Thank you very much, that's a suggestion, I'm just talking about having a personal dilemma here, if not, but it's okay. It's important that that part is removed too. Thank you very much, and we will support the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83240	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected Minister Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs and MPs, only here is a brief review of the previous presentation of this club of representatives Mr Pranic said that the payment of less than 1 billion kunas of companies was made. That fact itself doesn't have to be something bad in itself. It is bad if less than a billion kuna was paid, and there was no investment by companies that did not pay the profits. But if companies don't pay their profits into the budget, and that profit is invested then it's a multiplier effect on the state budget even better than that the profits themselves are paid. He said that Article 11(2) allows the Government to make available the properties beyond this law. But that's already prescribed by the Government Act, only an article in the Government Act is prescribed in this law, so it's nothing new, but all laws must be known in order to discuss this law in a quality way. He also criticised the terms of the CERRP director, and I wish he had directed that debate in the first reading or suggested an amendment or had proposed an amendment, certainly to consider the variant. He also mentioned the strategy, of course the strategy is in the works, but it cannot be published until the law is passed. First, it has to be the law to be a strategy. Mr. Demetlik said that all the proposals were accepted, most of their proposals, but that this is a small step. I think one who knows how to measure would never measure this in a small step but a much bigger step in such a tiny step. He says that this law of deadlines should be prescribed, so it is not a matter that the Ministry of State Property solves the administrative procedure so that deadlines are prescribed, but deadlines are not prescribed even when we ask local self-government units to deliver the documentation we need to solve their cases, and so often these expected deadlines are exceeded, both of them. The question has been asked how many cases there are with local self-government units. About 3,000 cases in the Ministry of State Assets of Unsolved Units of Local Self-Government. But after the new law, we will try to change the structure of the ministry because we are the smallest institution in the Republic of Croatia dealing with similar affairs, let alone that the ministry has less than 200 employees, and the amount of complexity of the work that I don't even talk about. Mr. Bacic mentioned the great potential of the military, but this potential will not be exploited until the spatial plans determine the plan in the former premises of the former military because there are still many that this is a special purpose space. This will certainly be accepted by the amendment that mountaineering homes and mountaineering houses because mountaineering homes are a narrow term and houses cover much wider. All amendments that are rational we will certainly consider them and most likely accept them. Just one example of potential, I spoke earlier in the opening presentation of 873 business spaces that have been trying to return to ownership of the Republic of Croatia for 6 years. This 873 business space has 70,000 square meters, the sued debt is 60 million and has a billion kuna value. How much potential this law could solve. Col. Hrg, you are not sure that the resolution ministry is the right solution, but the ministry is not the place where technical support is given, but where politics is being conducted, and here you know exactly where the responsibility is for which state institution and for which company. We at the Ministry and the Ministry of State Assets didn't even spend swearing on the PR, we personally, I, as a minister, have always been a minister with only facts and deeds. And as for the attack on decisions, they've also attacked every decision that opposes the current state of affairs is the object of the attack, but it won't discourage me because I know that morals always wave in opposition and politics when you're in power, and I say I'll do facts and deeds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83242	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83243	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maric, I have received a letter from 28 workers from the Bay of Slana Selce who are asking me to ask you a question, what happened to that facility that they say the Ministry of State Assets has handed over to the rent of the Prosperus Fund and in this way 28 people have lost their job on the road and they believe that it is a plea and that this decision, as they say the shameful decision of the commission, must be lifted as soon as possible so that these people can continue to work where they have spent their entire working life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83244	Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83245	Thank you very much, dear representative Jovanovic, on the replica. In the opening statement, I explained this case, I didn't notice you, so then I'll just look back because I don't have as much time as I've devoted to this case in the opening. The rent is paid for 4 months because the sale of the entire Adriatica Club has been disabled, and the price reached for that 4 months is 14 times higher than for any camp that has the Republic of Croatia. 75 camps run by the Ministry of Tourism and 14 camps run by the Ministry of State Property. The average price, although we should be paying three kunas because it is worth 2.7 kuna for all camps and 23 million kuna for all camps is achieved that this price we have established at the estimated value of the authorised court expert. We did not want to apply the price of the one applied otherwise to the camps because it would be too low a price. The authorised court expert has established the price, it is 14 times higher than all other prices and that the price applies to all camps would not be 23 million kuna per year but 330 million kuna of revenue in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83246	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is then GLAS and HSU on behalf of which they will speak the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83247	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, State Secretary, Associates. The second reading of the State Property Management Act is before us, and I, somehow, always begin the discussions in a way to praise the fact that the minister is here with us. So, we had in the debate a series of laws where ministers were not, have some ministers that we've never seen in the assembly to sit in defense of their law, you're not one of them, and I really think it's clear that when the minister comes and talks about his law, he says two facts. First, he keeps up with that law, and he keeps explaining and hearing what the parliamentary deputies will have to say, so he cares about the work he does and the second fact that he is constantly and what the MPs will say whether in the debate, in the first or second reading. The law on state property management is one of those laws that really challenge the public's attention and attention of all of us. What you said in your opening statement, and what we all witnessed, which is that there is state property, that state property is not being put into operation, that everyone with state property is actually being tortured. Local self-government units are being tortured, the state is struggling, and that all together, such a torment and agony lasts 27 years. And the question is, why? During that time we tried to pass the law like this, so the law like that, so we changed this option, so we changed that option, but the problem remained the same. I was one of those who sat on the side of the opposition and when there was a government appointment and actually a debate about having a new ministry, I was one of those who thought positively about this new ministry. My reasons were next. In this way, the Republic of Croatia speaks in favour of the fact that it finally wants one silver or gold or whatever you want to know which one we have and we don't put it adequately and we don't manage it properly, it shows that it cares, that it decided to put it into function and that it decided to get one economic effect and that it is the message that it is. However, as you always do in life, reality is in a certain way averted. It's almost almost a year and a half since the ministry and what's coming to me, which is that some shifts in the way in which the case is solved, in how the process is accelerated and in the way it's defined, have not happened. It's the same way we can pass the best law in the world, but if we don't do it right, they'll stay a dead letter on paper, why am I saying this? I kind of think that everyone should have a chance, have a chance to manage the resort, have a chance to make some step, have an opportunity to make some changes and I'm experiencing this law in that context. In order for him to be in some things better, he could, we must be honest, he solves some things and does the step in it. But very soon, however, we will see if this law really has effects and that depends first and foremost on people. First and foremost, it depends on the people who are working, who are implementing the law, and in this sense will then see if the Ministry of State Property is faster, whether it works faster, whether it's faster to deal with things that, in practice, I've met a lot of cases that looked very simple to me and who, regardless of what the body that manages the state property was called, have remained unsolved. What I read from this law as a improvement is next. Camping problem. My people, the camps are a problem, I'd say about the camps that I spent 48 hours in different meetings with the desire to get rid of the camps. And now a new model is being offered, so let's see if we can figure it out in that model. And when we talk about camps, then we need to know the next one. Compared to the development of tourism, camps are perfect. They don't change the space, not the conditions for the simple reason that it's a good camp the one retains the forest, retains the natural conditions because no one who deals with the camp will change it because the camp will be less worth it. Relatively fast investment can be achieved in terms of what you need to do. You from one season to the second season can make camp and very quickly you can have a flow of investment in terms of investment, in terms of economy, in terms of the state's interest. So if it's in our tourism, now that it's campers that are 4, 5 stars, it's no longer the sight we had 20 or 30 years ago, we're struggling with these camps. We have these camps in a way that we don't know whose land it is, so they don't pay anybody, so they pay someone, so there's a debate. Let's try and see, all the camps will now be in the Ministry of State Property and we'll see what happens. Equally, I think that a lot of colleagues who are either former or current mayors and mayors have talked about this change that has been introduced in a way that really municipalities and cities can manage and will get property, or indeed what schools, hospitals, fire departments are managing, and that I don't list what it's all about because it's simple if we want to carry out the slightest decentralisation, it's the minimum decentralisation. I am also reading the improvement that is in this law, which is evident and it is related to the desire to be more flowful and something better connected to the property that the owner does not know about and to try to put into office, so these are all those resorts and all those situations that they are. So there are some improvements, there are some traps. So we'll see how those traps react and what happens here. There is one chapter that neither in the debate nor in the right reading, nor in the other reading has caused any too much attention, which is a movement, a movement managed by the ministry, a movement that has been taken away, so that the ministry and the retired pension, are too expensive, whether storage or anything else can sell. I will state here an example, which you know, that there was an honorable man at the head of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and when he started the process against him, then, there was a state office, I was not wrong, but there also have colleagues who would certainly know, that they were taken away valuable horses, whose value was enormous. And then the problem was to feed those horses at all, what to do with them and everything. So I think this motion-related chapter is good. And now we come to all these traps. First of all, what you should always say, which is that in order for you to manage something, you need to know what you have. And while you're at it, you need to know what you have, and you need to know what the other one has and clean up your property, as our citizens know how to say 1/1. And here we come to a council story, told by some others sitting in this assembly, which we're talking about, and I'm afraid someone behind us will tell. And it's an unsettled cadastre, an unsettled garland, an unrecognizable property in an appropriate way, and it's a key problem for the state to manage its assets. And what would be a priority would be that the state should take care of its assets, the cadastre and the garland, if at least she knew what she was managing. Because they didn't have a number of cases, even when it was state property and even when it was the best possible intention, and when it tried to solve it, and then you get to the cadastra and the grantines and the discrepancies in 3 squares and everything goes back to squares. There are ways and methods that other countries have done and that's to be solved, we haven't solved it, and there's a problem and there's a problem that the state also has in managing its assets, that it needs to know what it has. They have to register, they have to record, and they have to coordinate the cadastre and the garland. You can have the most perfect computers in the world, you can have the most perfect computer programs in the world, but some things have to be done by man and have to be done on foot, other methods are gone, especially when it comes to what the minister was saying, about apartments, about citizens, about who and where you simply have to do it on foot, and we need to be aware of that. In the context of that, we will give amendments to the GLAS and HSU Club. I'm also in the first debate, and I'm going to do it again now, I'm talking about state property records, I'm talking about keeping a central register and in art. 55th says the ministry keeps records, the record is not a public register, so the ministry leads in a certain way. The rulebook says exactly what it does, but then the data will be run by the Central Register of State Property. And then I said something, it's kind of a way for you to, you know, at home, I don't know, have your own property and you know what you have, but about what and how manageable and what your neighbor actually has. It's just not good. Likewise, there is another new context, and it is about the public and the secrecy of the data. I usually think that state property should be public, that it must be publicly available, that everyone can see it, to see what it's about, for the simple reason, because there's just not a dispute that we have and what the state has, there isn't, does anyone get anything, doesn't guess, in that way you've actually absolutely thrown out all the cards. Because if you run something public, if everything is available to someone, if you say, so you could see, on that and that page, here and there, which is, that we rented, what is the amount of that rental, you solved a lot of problems and I'm sure it's a model that's incomparably better. And something that has always been shown on the Ministry's website you have a special page, on that page exactly you say, I rented it then, for so much and a series of obstacles will be solved. Of course, every law, which some elements of spatial planning, is stronger than me and I always have to refer to it, so I'm going to refer to myself now. You have an art. 8. In which you say, which says the decision to draw up a spatial plan should be delivered to the ministry, and then, given the decision to make, the ministry will submit its demands. I am absolutely sure, believe me with my long experience, that this provision is not good for you, and I will tell you what it is, every decision on making every plan, I see it in the City of Zagreb, where I am a representative in the City Assembly, they deliver to the Ministry of State Property Management, you have 556 municipalities plus City of Zagreb, each of you will now take that for a year, you will get, but when you write such a spatial plan, there is a spatial plan of the municipality and the city, there is a GUP for you there is an urban planning of the arrangement and there is a detailed plan for you. Believe me, when he reads and the law comes into force, everyone will... One article delivers to you, you'll be buried data, someone there will record put in the table and what's the effect, will not be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My experience has shown the following, when it comes to state property, when the spatial planner plans and we have to be honest, on state property, if we need some kind of greenery or somewhere, we're going to move the building area, then we're going to take it to the state, because the state doesn't even know about its property, and they know when they're working on a spatial plan, then we're going to plan it on state property, and that's the problem of construction we're going to solve with private plots. It would be incomparable to keep it only on the spatial plans of the construction of municipalities and cities because construction areas are defined there, to deliver a decision on the design and to give an opinion on it. Because here you see what's state and you see what's building, it's incomparably better because then the state manages its property in the spatial planning process. Making a decision doesn't mean anything, except being buried with papers, you'll have some reference to put it in and it's not an effect. It seems to me that this is incomparably better if you really want to manage state property, that is the process in which construction areas are determined, which determine the purpose and where you can react. In that context, we will really give amendments. You take these amendments not as amendments because someone on the side of the opposition wants to be very bad. If I wanted to be mean, I'd have had a different argument. This debate is just to have all the tools and elements to manage state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83248	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected minister, Dr. Maric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83249	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs, Mr. Dark-Taritash, I can't even understand your debate with the bad one. In fact, it's very content. That's why I felt the need and react immediately after your debate, only after your discussions because you were extremely contentious. It is logical that I am present while the bill is in discussion and at first reading today. So I don't think you find anything special because it's logical that the minister should defend his law. You said the acceleration of the case didn't happen, that it was your impression. I can tell you it can be at the level of the impression, but practice isn't like that. If you had any contact with the State Department, then you'd be convinced otherwise. If you want to check my findings, please contact the mayors, mayors and mayors of the municipalities and see what they think of the Ministry as more effective than ever. The city of Zagreb has solved more cases, according to the mayor of Zagreb in 6 months with the Ministry than in the previous 16 years with former institutions that have dealt with the same affairs. It's like that all over the Republic of Croatia. We've been preparing 50 cases with the city of Rijeka, and for 28 years, no one's talked about these items. And so we go from Dubrovnik to Slavonia. There's no county and city and municipality where we don't work and where we haven't solved the cases. We're even careful about equality, we've got an overview of how many cases we handle in the county, in the cities, in the municipalities, so there's no selective approach. Ask those who were in public competitions. Eight public tenders have been in the last few months, so many have been gone for the last 15 years. At the competition for, there were 500 bidders in one contest. More real estate and lease and sale contracts have been realised in 5 months than in the previous 10 years. When you talk about movement, I wish we hadn't fallen to be the ones to worry about it. But someone has to. These are movements that have been seized in criminal proceedings and, of course, if they are taken away in criminal proceedings and that if the time comes for the Ministry to sell it in a public tender, it is only logical. I'd be happier if it weren't for the Ministry of State Assets but for someone else to do it. I agree with you that we have unsettled garters and catastres, so we know what we have, but I'll just tell you how messy it is. No matter where the ownership of the Republic of Croatia is registered, we have a case a few days ago in the ownership list, the garter writes an excerpt of a business space of 132 squares. When an eyewitness was made, the measurement wasn't 132 but 91. Not to talk about others. It's a big mess. However, we inherited it. The Central Register Act is on e-consultation. All I'm gonna say about computers and a man is that a man is irreplaceable with all the computers. You said the register wasn't a public register. Yeah, but that doesn't mean it's not public, it's just a document that doesn't have the power of a public ID, but it's public and it doesn't keep our neighbor's records. We have a record of a ministry filled out by a central state register that runs all the notional forms of property. The central state registry will run all notional assets, not just what the Ministry of State Property is running. There will also be the Ministry of Agriculture, Agricultural Land, Croatian Water, Military Objects, Ministry of Administration, MUP, MORH, all property is in the Central State Register as is part of our property, and the Ministry of State Property has a special record with it. So that record is just one part of the register of state property. As far as spatial plans are concerned, it is not logical and we do not agree that the land owned by the Republic of Croatia is converted into green areas that were built, and the green surfaces of natural persons are turning into building land and management now on our remarks the Vukovar-Srijem County has accepted our proposal and we are cooperating, we regularly take note of spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83250	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83251	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm extremely pleased that you had the need and to explain this to me and I don't even doubt that cooperation with municipalities and cities is better than ever before. But I am told by citizens involved in legalisation procedures. You know that when there's something about legalization, I'm still getting e-mails in the law before and now it's about legalizing a building on state property to determine a plot that serves as a regular use and that it solves it before the office, among other things, now the ministry. I've heard from a dozen citizens who have been waiting since they've been legalized, delivering documentation and failing to solve it. And my remark on that was exclusive. I have not at all used my opportunity as a parliamentary representative to provide you with this information, but I will be very happy to provide the data of citizens who are the basis of the Law on Legalisation, even you have cases where part of their property was part of it, and in part the state and have failed to resolve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83252	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83253	Dear MPs, Dark-Taritash. We have these cases, of course, that after legalization, but while we're being provided with a solution on the condition of the building particle determination, we're going to assess it and we're doing it. It's just often we don't get everything they need to deliver. 6,000 items we have here speak to me by my assistant, and there are only four of us in the ministry who can do this job. Not when we ask for a new structure and an increase in the number of employees don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83254	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83255	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm glad you've reached out to the respected ministers in some way in the replica of counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash, she's said well and she's well noticed where there's a big, big problem, it's a mess of catastrophe and grantovna. I know it's not directly within your jurisdiction, but you are a member of the government, so I'd like to encourage you to talk to the government about this problem, and when you're talking to the Government about reforms all the time, I'd say that this is one real reform that we'd be able to tackle this problem and make a legal proposal that's no different from being revolutionary to get rid of it, and we have good experiences from our neighbours of Slovenians and Austrians who have solved it that way. So let's make one such reform with us catastra, grantovna, and fix this one crucial problem. And I believe that all citizens know about this problem, especially the leaders of the local self-government units, and you, as an ex-representer, who knows that there lies atrocity to our problems. Here's an incentive for something like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83256	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83257	Thank you very much. Well, of course, I don't think there's a serious man who's not aware of the problem of the cataster and the land books, and that's why we all feel the consequences. But far the greatest consequences are felt by the Ministry of State Property and Property of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the situation is concerned, it seems to me that the most valuable thing is what has been arranged by Austria-Hungarian, that we have very little and, of course, I will try everything from the scope of my relevance to get rid of it, but of course it is not my portfolio. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83258	Thank you. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Veschigay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83259	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's to the replica, I was encouraged by the Honored Ministers of your comment that you are solving a number of problems from Rijeka, Zagreb, Slavonia and since I come from Krapina-Zagorje County, and one of the biggest problems there is so-called. Kumrovek's dead capital, so it's the political school of the former SK, the NB fighter's home, and several other capital facilities that haven't actually been used for decades. I would like to know what your position is about this, and will the Ministry of State Property, together with the county, together with the Municipality of Kumrovec, contribute to solving this problem, given that it is about objects whose position is extremely important for the development of the whole area and for the development of the entire Krapina-Zagorje County? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83260	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83261	Thank you very much. I'm personally familiar with the problem in Kumrovec. We're currently doing the pitch and preparing the competition. However, the eye seems to be technically very simple work, so you published a tender for sale, donation, but so much precedes one such activity as a tender for sale or for hire or for award or donation that it is an extremely complex and professional job. The solution to property relations, parcels, detailed elaborates, see if it's about return of property, determining the status, and here in this case it's about to land and prepare the competition so that there will be two competitions for two properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83262	Thank you. And colleague Zeljko Glasnović as the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83263	Dear colleagues. It's not easy for you to work without the synergy of the ministries, but it's hard for you to do your homework until the end when we know that 5% of the land's books are digitized. You've had two Zadar and Požega pilots, and that's not over yet, they say it'll never be almost some. You have the Ministry of Agriculture Mr. Tolusic here said they spent 2.5 billion kuna on digitization. How do you manage that chaos? I wish you all the best. And on all these issues are the consequences of something, why don't these heads there recognize some who are heirs to that party that produced this chaos? And it is a slap in the face of the Croats that this party that the Croatian state must pay for that cube downstairs, that party that imposed on them the one-party system and of course they carried out the reform by '49. There were 50,000 companies, etc. and agricultural, everything is nationalized and confiscated. And these are the roots of everything... it's taboo topic... say here, and they won't admit it. They produced this chaos, little Stalin and his followers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83264	Thank you. However, Minister Maric will answer something. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83265	Thank you very much, Representative Glasnović. Of course, without harmonisation, synergy and common approach to solving the most complex problems, nothing can be solved. We have 10 major projects at the Ministry that we are working in cooperation with local self-government units. Here, there's... In Pula we have 3 out of 10, 3 biggest projects, in the city of Sibenik preparing a project... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government's decision goes next Thursday. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These projects are worth and provide investments of more than 10 billion kuna over the next 5 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83266	Thank you. Now we'll go to the next club, and that's the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83267	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Prejudice is very common, in fact, the exact fact that the state property is being mismanaged, that we are not taking good care of it and that in fact the state does not manage it well. The government earlier, or government earlier, and these, too, have now sought to change that fact. We started agencies, so it used to be state offices, and now we finally have the Ministry. We've passed laws and strategies before, but we haven't succeeded what we wanted, which is to better manage state property. This particular bill of law really has a lot of good solutions and even a colleague of Tulio who said it was a step, a small step, but I think it's a bigger step. But we don't have to measure it that much now. I think there are good solutions. What's a real danger to this law is that these solutions are not feasible, that they remain a dead letter on paper. That's what the Ministry can't allow. So, that those solutions that we have now installed, which are proposed, remain inconclusive. It's important to point out, that's what I said in my first reading that this bill has its basis in the government's programme. So, the government program that's... The Croatian Parliament at the beginning of its term of office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the government programme therefore contains that the government will make sure that the state property is activated, that it is managed better. And that is what this law aims to achieve, and it is important to point out that when the ministries work, they call for strategic and programming documents. And that should be the rule, not the exception. But that's a question for another debate now. There's a debate here on state property management. It is a question that also plagues the country, which is plagued by investors, who are plagued by public companies, which are the units of local self-government. I do not think that in the past few years there has been any calendar year that the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament has not held a thematic session on state property and that numerous conclusions and recommendations have been made at such thematic sessions, so it is no wonder that even a number of mayors, mayors who are also parliamentary representatives, are actively involved in this debate. One of the important things that this Law solves in a single article is that the properties that are now owned by the state, which are used by schools, homes of health and other institutions established by a local self-government unit, and what the units of local self-government do not use, that is, their institutions, therefore social homes of various, firehouses, that this will all legally pass into the ownership of units of local self-government. Anything local self-government units must do to become owners, therefore, shall submit a request to the competent ministry by 31.12.2019. This is a really great thing because here, I've been to the Ministry several times, lobbying, praying, asking to solve a question of a firehouse that is crucial to a municipality, and the state doesn't even know that this firehouse exists, but unfortunately there's always some paper missing, it's always a requirement to supplement itself. This would make it much easier. What is actually a danger, which I personally fear there, is precisely the issue of implementation. I'm afraid, knowing the situation on the ground, the situation in the land books, the situation in the cataster, the cataster records, and the capacity of the ministry itself, that this will be resolved for a long time, that it will be resolved slowly and that perhaps the Ministry will become a narrow throat, that too many paperwork will be sought, that some of the things bureaucratic that are now bothering us will not be able to escape, and I think that when the Law of Voting has to be calculated really to make it more operational. In addition to this problem, this Law solves the problem of thousands of our citizens who bought their own houses that they built on land that was once social, so it became a state or citizens bought from municipalities, so they bought either their own houses or bought building plots, built the family houses they live in, but they can't be registered as owners. I know a few cases like that. People have been talking to me. People have been trying to solve this problem for 10 years. So they're trying to become owners of houses where they live, and unfortunately, they still haven't made it. This law solves it with one move, and that's what really needs to be commended. Because these citizens, they can't even, if they have an OPG, for example, they can't report to various competitions, they can't apply to EU funds. It's simple, because they're not the owners of their houses, their facilities where they live. It is a good thing that in the second reading of the states, the requests for funds from the units of local self-government were denied. I'd like to commend that, and I think that's a good thing. This will also help citizens, but local self-government units will also help. It would be bad now if the state were asking for the payment of that money the municipalities had received. There are probably some mayors, mayors who have been knowingly selling plots, knowing that it is not municipal but state, however, we are punishing the municipality, not the mayor. And very often, these commissioners changed, those who were selling, were no longer chiefs and would actually get into the problem of the new chief, who wasn't really what they would say, eat, or smell onion. So this move and this solution should certainly be welcomed. As for state records of state property, counterpart Mrak Taritash also raised the issue in the first reading, so the Ministry of State Property keeps records and the register to run someone else. If I hadn't worked in the state administration, he'd have thought it was a paradox and he'd think the ministry didn't actually justify its name as the State Property Ministry. But this is what I think, and why not this solution, why not just this solution? Why should someone else, that some other part of the state administration doesn't run that register, that is, taking care of it, someone who has... who has the infrastructure, who has the capacity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What matters to the state is that it has a good orderly, transparent and functional register. Whether it's run by the ministry or any other body, I think it's totally irrelevant. The important thing is that the ministry has an absolute entry into that register. Because very often the ministries don't know what they have and what other ministries have, and we heard and know that the property that the State Department cares about is not really all state property, and the ministries don't even know what databases other state bodies have, and that although it seems one paradox is true and such databases, unfortunately, are not networked. What I find controversial, although I understand the legitimate interest of the state to activate the assets that are failing, which is not active, is property, which would be leased and which is subject to a succession, the text of the article amended and, in my opinion, quite for the better. I did so on the parliamentary board responsible for local self-government, questioned and questioned, little and criticized, but in relation to the first text, I think it is much better and that it clearly protects the interests and rights of owners, i.e. those who claim that property, and in fact enables the state to look for an investor, therefore, to activate that property, which is a state legitimate interest. However, caution works, and I have to ask the question once more for this speaker, to think about whether the state can have something that isn't hers. Because RH, it's not listed in the land books. What if tomorrow the tenant says he won't pay the rent if we come to a court dispute. I know of specific examples of some units of local self-government that were available 10 years ago and leased private property to citizens. In relation to the current text of the provision that regulates these issues, I also believe that the disputed definition, i.e., is the solution mentioned there, and I think the colleague Hrg said that, too, which speaks of peaceful possession. So, a peaceful property is a property that is the weakest quality and, in fact, already someone today, for the future, if you practically owned that property, you could acquire a peaceful property and then the question is the justification of his right, the first lease. I think it would be better and more justified if, in the provision, that one, a legal entity entitled to that property, therefore, one who, in fact, would be able to reach a bilateral agreement tomorrow, one that actually claims to be, to have a title holder, to give him the right to so, first lease, and certainly not to question the right of those entities to be adopted tomorrow, if such text and the law were to be adopted and the competition is to be opened tomorrow, so that these legal entities should be allowed to compete for that property to enter into a lease agreement with the state. This provision, once again, and I will point out better defined than in the first reading, is more protected by the ownership interest, and in my view remains a space for the investor and for some win win situation both for the investor and for the owner and for the state. What would take advantage of the opportunity at the end of the exhibition, now there is no minister, but I will leave it on his desk, so I would mention the apartments, which were previously owned by the Third May Shipyard, and which passed into state property, so there are people who still live in those apartments and have not bought those apartments and whose legal fate is very uncertain. The ministry is familiar with the problem and I appeal to both the minister and his associates to mount this problem and to find a solution in the short term to allow these people to make possible to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83268	Thank you very much. The next is the Club of Representatives is the national minority on behalf of whom the respected representative Veljko Kajtazi will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83269	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, I welcome the adoption of the Law on State Property Management and I welcome the Minister's efforts to bring order into the area of availability of state property, which has not been done so far. In a situation where our citizens enter state dwellings and spaces, we need to be particularly socially sensitive. But on the other hand, to record the number of real estates and how best we can use them for the benefit of our citizens. Although the potential of state property is one big issue that can be applied and for the benefit of many things, this way I especially want to look back at the well-being of citizens, and this is the social gain of citizens who are at risk of having a fundamental right, and that is the right to a home. In the process of available state property, I believe that your ministry must improve co-operation with local self-government units and that the state of all the properties it has and does not manage to maintain should hand over to local self-government units because at this very level we have a lot of problems that we are struggling with in the absence of the resolution of housing of the most vulnerable citizens. It is not necessary to leave the impression that some valuable or arranged objects are already known that our citizens are moving out of need into deroute areas that are in a terrible state and out of control. It is not only about spaces but it should be recalled that many have built buildings on locations owned by the state, and I would especially point out over 100 locations where Roma live and whose buildings are very often built on state land and with their own resources. If we ask why Roma settlements are in such a state, the answer should also be sought in these unresolved property legal relations that make it impossible for both tenants and local self-government units to assist them in terms of further infrastructure and all other investments. Unfortunately, in cases such as the Roma village of Kursanec, one of the already or Roma settlements in Slavonski Brod, there are open demands for the ministry of availability in favour of the local self-government unit that has not been resolved so far. I do not know for what reason it takes the ministry years for such processes to be completed even though we are all very well aware that the expectation of such decisions further prevents any progress in these settlements. Note, currently in force but the existing law provides that when justified and explained by reasons of economic progress, the social well-being of citizens and the unification of the economic and democratic development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, the ministry can have real estate in favour of the unit of local self-government. Why is it going so slow? Or why this doesn't seem to be because everyone doesn't know their responsibilities or interpret the law well enough. There may be a lack of political will, but it is certainly a fact that many people do not take Roma problems seriously, and this also confirms that these settlements have been there for years and decades. Political parties often enter the settlements, but as soon as the elections pass, they forget about the problems of the Roma community. In this regard, I consider the ministry as well as all other holders of activities in strategic documents written in order to improve the situation of the Roma. It is necessary to further commit and define their obligations more clearly. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall adopt various acts and strategic documents to improve the framework for addressing detected problems among others and operational programmes aimed at the activities of competent ministries and other bodies in relation to specific problems. In accordance with the operational programmes for national minorities, the Government of the Republic of Croatia carried out activities in the period 2017-2020 in accordance with the operational programmes for national minorities brought in last year 8 months for the period 2017-2020 with the aim of improving the organisation and legalisation of Roma settlements in the territory of the Roma national minority and in accordance with existing relevant legal provisions, the Law on Legalisation, the Law on the Community Economy and other applicable legal provisions shall implement legalisation, urbanisation and regulation of Roma settlements and the areas of the Republic of Romania, and shall support activities related to their further regulation through the Part-Corruption Fund for the Protection of the Environment and Energy Efficiency by considering the possibility of the release of compensation and legalisation of facilities for socially endangered members of the Roma national minority if they are the only properties owned or should do so. The holders of the activities described are the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund and the Agency for the Law of illegally built buildings in cooperation with units of local and regional self-government. I will take into account the implementation of written activities and responsibilities of the Ministry of State Property, which are often available to land and property on which Roma settlements are formed. This way, I would like to further improve the law by amending it in a way that specifically points out how defined purposes are described in Article 45 of the Law can be available in favour of units of local and regional self-government and for the purpose of implementing the operational programmes adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This facilitates the transfer of property and land in favour of units of local and regional self-government without compensation where this is justified and justified by reasons which are in accordance with those legislation and the proposed provisions of the State Property Management Act, which are in accordance with the proposed Article. The 45th highlights the social well-being of citizens and the unification of the economic and demographic development of all corners of HR. The government of the Republic of Croatia's operational programmes also brings in other areas, not only when we talk about the issue of minorities, so I believe that one of these bases would further extend the powers of the ministry and allow the same to react better and faster in cases such as outstanding property legal issues in the Roma violence in Kusanac or in Slavonski Brod, because the way we work so far has not been fast and high-quality enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83270	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Lalovac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83271	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. Here, today, we have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on State Property Management. This law also transposes the provisions of the Directive into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, so it has that E mark, meaning the European Parliament and the Council of 3 April 2014 on the freezing and confiscation of property benefit cases achieved by the criminal part of the EU, so that this part of the law implements one part of the acquis. So he had to come along and it's about that directive. So the final proposal of the Law on Management, the availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, contains certain changes in relation to the proposal, as well as the previous draft of the law, which were created as a result of still respecting certain views in the debate in the Croatian Parliament. In particular, the amendment in Art. 69 is essential. in which the provisions which prescribe the obligation to units of local and regional, regional self-government, the return of the financial resources that have been made on the basis of legal work, the availability of real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, is repeatedly stated here, and I think that this is a good step especially for those units of local self-government where it would actually be the application of the existing law, if it had been finally adopted, would have been a very big blow, a financial blow to their units budgets of local self-government. I think it's kind of helpful for local units not to carry out such a financial burden on their budgets. Here I would only, a little technical clarification, like to hear from the minister, or his colleagues. What is particularly specific about this law is that it is trying to get rid of the function of various properties because of unresolved property legal relations, especially regarding resorts, on the Croatian coast of other properties that have been blocked by unresolved issues of the former state's succession. So here's a very clear question, and that's why I've asked the Minister here and the Prime Minister to clarify this perhaps some technical things that can't actually be in the law, for the first part we got the answer, actually for, because it's not touching property, because I've been talking here the last time, this law has got a positive opinion and I believe the Ministry of Justice, certainly the State's Attorney's Office. It is precisely important because the debate in our neighbouring countries, that, now in Croatia, they are being kidnapped by some kind of property. So this here is very clear, important to say, that this property etc. It remains theirs, but there is certainly no right, that with such property, which, which is what the minister said, is not only a mockery on our coast, because you have objects where someone wants to build you have a hotel, built 5 stars and 4 stars of the hotel, next to it stands a mockery where no one can, so neither the municipality, no one can influence it and actually damage the tourism of that place. And certainly what the minister was saying, and it's dangerous for the citizens themselves who move there. However, it can only be a technical clarification of the minister, so that in fact, compared to the previous article 70 in the first reading which had only one item, you have now worked it out a little bit. 71st in the 4th sentence, technically, I'll just read it for a while, so the previous one called. Ugl. means until an appropriate international contract has been concluded, the Ministry shall be authorised to lease or to make available up to a maximum of 30 years of real estate, in the land library owned by the Republic of Croatia, to which the prohibition laid down in the Regulation on the availability and take over of the resources of certain legal persons in the territory of the Republic of Croatia applies. There are two legal frameworks from '92. And '94. In this first reading, however, the final proposal states, they do not have at all the two acts you are referring to, but are simply calling on the Anti-Fraud Regulation to be made available to the People's Journal 36 of '91. Here's just a little interpretation, which is why they're in the first, is that there's something essential and I'm saying, why are now, I see these two laws, which you're now exempt from, in relation to the current bill. Next, of course, I see that in the first reading it is also stated, that the lease of up to 30 years is quite written, the saying was 30. Here now, now in the new article. 71 is no longer referred to as 30 years. However, in the light of this article, the reasoning states that this is a 30-year lease. Well, just now I don't know, technically, if it was a lapus, if it's been left the same for 30 years because I see in the explanation you're writing, and in the article itself, you've now excluded that one. Well, it would be more logical if the article itself had already said that this was an annual lease, that it was quite specific to say. I say, we welcome that part anyway, because we think that these properties should be put into operation, they should be put into operation, but I say, just a few more of these technical details, maybe for those people who would like to report to those properties, that they know how a certain process is going to go. This is what's very important that you said that, now whether it's an international competition or it's going to be a competition where these companies will mean, for example. owners who are from BiH will be able to report to the tender, not to mention that their assets could not actually be obtained because there is a ban on having that property, that they cannot actually resell it on the market, because there is a ban in '92. years, so they don't say any other words, yeah, you don't give us a call, and this is good because you said that they can report to that competition, even moreover, let them report, restore their facilities, and when they get rid of certain property-legal relations, they're definitely in their facility, but it's important to say clearly that they can report, what's important here, means that they can report and that they can rent and actually dispose of that property. It's still very important to me about the funds invested. So, I think you've worked this out a little bit more detail now, and the tenant will say, hand over the property to the person who proves that the owner of the property is in accordance with the international contract, or the decision to exempt the availability ban. So, the tenant has the right to invest and is not obliged to hand over the property until the owner pays him a fee for the funds invested. Well, now, I'm just technically a little bit curious, so under what conditions someone here decides when some legal owner shows up after or when those bilateral contracts are settled, I'm wondering how they're going to decide that this one is going to say, well, I've invested a million euros, I don't know, two million, so technically whether there's going to be some kind of problem when they change that part of ownership, means how that part is going to be solved. Whether to settle for their net book value, on real investment, because you always have some kind of value assessment, I'm just technically interested in having someone come forward right now. Why does it matter to say that? If those who come in today and get it, they would report to the competitions that the Ministry will call, which I see here, you've defined in art. 4. I believe that this may be even more detailed there, but I think it is very important to say in which way their relations will later be arranged if there is a dispute, whether they will then come to the Ministry, because the Ministry has actually given a public tender to rent or go to courts. So, as it determines who's following it, how much money has been invested in these certain objects because, unfortunately, maybe some of those little things that aren't right now, but when there's some real and some kind of handovers I don't know, you've now given up the competition, someone's come, he's renovated the facility, and he's invested some amount of money that he knows that he's invested, and now he's got rid of this bilateral relationship, and now he needs to get into his, he's bound to hand over the property, and then I can't say what kind of new disputes between them, so I don't know what those documents are and who's gonna be in charge to answer that part of the question. Certainly, it is very important here to say that when it comes to these facilities, they will hardly be able to be financed through banks. Because they should always have to give you banks when you're giving you a certain facility, meaning one that's going to enter these long-term leases, they'll probably have to have their own funds to invest in that facility because it's simply big value facilities, mostly resorts, hotel facilities. Mostly for some of them you still need cash, you need money, and then now, the question is, for those who are going to enter, they'll probably have to have some other means of security because they won't be able to, maybe to answer me the same thing, whether the bank will be able to sign up as a stock for that kind of property. And now the question is, we've leased it, but if a bank is allowed to sign up on such a, uh, deposit over that property. So that's what I'm saying, maybe certain technical questions that we might be asking people who want to start answering certain tenders to know in advance because if you put it on the next line, we'll see here on what deadline, I see that it's now up to a certain deadline to know in advance what its conditions are. I say, I commend and support that you put into operation these facilities and there is no dispute there and I think it's good to do so because it's just going to benefit everyone, it's going to have a local community because someone's going to pay a certain communal fee, they're going to have locals because they're going to hire young people there, they're going to have Croatian tourism, they're going to have a total, what you're... and listed, impact on gross domestic product, tourism, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's going to be a whole positive effect, so we certainly welcome your intention to put into function. But perhaps these few more of these technical issues that I've asked here, let's see if there are still some doubts about the lease of such forms of property. And here also the same, maybe just an explanation because I'm not a lawyer, I'm more of an economist, so I don't know maybe this more detailed legal one. It says that, it will be leased for a certain time by the public tender until the conclusion of an international contract that will resolve property-legal relations on these properties or until the decision to exempt from the ban is made, so I'm only interested in who makes the decision, whether it's the Government or whether there are other documents that are clean to explain this part of the decision to me, means whether it's like some new moment here again I'm just saying, technically, to explain it to me a little bit, I'm saying now he's more elaborate than the previous article and those who are going to report and we're going to make it easier for them to make it easier for everyone who is able to put themselves into office. So that means after these certain answers, we will definitely take a certain position and say, there are a lot of positive things in this law specifically about the bill that properties owned by the Republic of Croatia that were in the nature of schools, homes of health, hospitals and other institutions that were founders of the unit of local self-government, education and others, meaning other objects that would be transferred to local self-government units. It seems to me that there was also talk here that maybe some apartments or some sort of what you said, garages etc., located at local and significant sites may be for certain units of local self-government, that in some different and easier way, you should also leave that part of the property to them because they'll probably know better, we should actually manage that part of the property better than when it's all actually centralized. I say I welcome these certain changes, and here I would only ask certain clarifications of these articles as I have said to the n club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83272	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Lalovac. On behalf of the promoter, Honorable Minister Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here are the honourable MPs, you've opened a few questions, so I felt the need to answer these questions immediately in order to have a more complete picture. In the debate already on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, there have been talks on this work, an amendment is being prepared that will be more clearly defined in Article 71, we will probably return to the first part where it is clearly seen that it is 30 years and leased, so there will be no doubt. There's no doubt about it. There's no doubt about it. There's no doubt about it. But there's no doubt that it won't work anymore, the rule that most times was veined, see visas, we came, we saw, we bought, we bought, we had to come, we saw, we paid, we bought. It's got to be paid. Whoever's got it, they're gonna rent it. The court expert will have no needs but to assess the value before the competition. So on the basis of the assessment of the court witch, there will be a public tender that will be open to everyone and former users. Let's not, please, use the term owners. There's no owner, there's no owner in land books, there's a former user, social property, general folk property, and so on. Whoever owned the resort, the former user was the Elektroprivreda BiH. When we have several power plants in BiH today, there is no telling who is the legal follower of the users. It doesn't get into anybody's property. So it can only be leased for up to 30 years, it won't be possible to break the contract before it expires and after the owner's determination, the owner gains all the benefits from the contract. And technically, it regulates a regulation that follows the law, but the law itself will already remove any ambiguity. So it doesn't get in the way of ownership, it enables activation, investment, everyone can participate, including users, former users of these properties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83274	I thank the Honorable Minister. We have replicas, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83275	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said in your statement that there are certain tenants of business premises who have not paid and that you have referred this to court proceedings, so it would be good to publish a register of those who have used state space to pay, let the public know who is unfair to fellow craftsmen and entrepreneurs because it is wrong for someone to pay all the obligations to this society and someone is using state space and does not pay. And secondly, there are a lot of craftsmen who closed their crafts because they couldn't pay for a set of rents, directors, etc. so that, together with the Ministry of Economy, there is a model of how to enable those craftsmen if there are no other interested in reopening their crafts, to pay the directors, because it is better for someone to use this space than to stand empty and that the cost is to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83276	I thank my colleague Vlaović. Answer, Your Honor, Minister Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83277	Thank you very much. I'd very much like to announce to anyone who owes anyone and first of all to the state. But unfortunately, some provisions prevent it. A new regulation on the protection of personal data prevents us. But that doesn't mean we won't take action against those. As for these other spaces that you said were empty, there's not a lot of empty space, but if they are, after the law comes into force, they won't be empty. That's why this law serves and without it, we can't activate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83278	I thank the esteemed Mr. Maric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I thank you for your answers. Maybe I'll just say this one I've set up for legislation, say if there are any fundamental differences because I'm saying, in the past law, you've been calling for one law, now in this into another, or... Is there any purely technical question to cover these properties themselves? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second question, you said there would be a certain judicial expert who would probably be evaluating, means that he would be doing the same assessment of that same court expert when this one comes out, because someone has to make an assessment of how much it's worth. That's what I asked him, he's going to have to get that property back, and he's going to need some money, a purely technical question. Will a certain artist come back and say watch when we were giving in a public tender it was worth a million, now that the new one is coming in this part now it's worth three million, or will that actually solve these issues that I asked you in that context? And the third question is, is it possible, and we know that there is a ban as there is a law here? Okay. [[Invadica Brkić: A colleague of Lalovac bring the place in.]] So there was a ban on whether it was possible to resell it in the last 20 years if it was a legal ban? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83280	Thank you. The answer of a fellow minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83281	Thank you very much. If it's been resold, and we know it's not a proper contract. Under that contract, no one can register as owner. So I'm calling again if someone like that decided not to buy them. As for the technical part, I said, we'll come back from the first-reading formulation and it'll all be clearer then. And the assessment of the court witch will not be necessary after the date of exit, because now the court expert will necessarily assess to determine the initial price for the sake of the public tender, and up to 30 years is sufficient to return the investment, so all that was invested by the user invested it and it will return through the time period of use. And the new owner, the founding of the new owner, gets all the benefits from that lease contract, and by the end of the contract he acquires the entire new real estate he's worth as much as anyone else built. And the one who invested in it returned the investment through use for a long period of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83282	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister Maric for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a respected colleague, Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83283	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. By listening to the first reading, and now we are starting to see a positive step in relation to the existing still existing Law on State Property Management. We supported the establishment of the ministry just knowing what the problems were and proved to be in practice that the current way of managing state property was not adequate, it was not satisfactory and it did not meet those objectives which are otherwise when we talk about the property comparing and the responsibility of the owner certainly did not respond adequately. What is visible from this law, and it is projected through the law itself, i.e. the government's policy is also read, above all, to make a complete record of state property, which unfortunately we have to establish that we do not have it. How, in what way is absolutely acceptable, however, we feel that it is important that we have finally here in the Assembly that we are available to everything owned by the Republic of Croatia, not only as regards those assets that this law speaks of but entirely. And I believe that as prescribed in the law, the central register will be able to access that data. What is also important is the way in which the assets are available and managed, the key principle of economicism, transparency, predictability, as well as sustainability that we must be aware of and critical of the previous and previous law, and I would dare say to the policies that were at the level of the Republic of Croatia in any case did not respond to these objectives. You can see a positive step in the relationship between the two readings, the second reading certainly better and the criticisms that we have and which the HNS club was talking about in the first reading are certainly mostly appreciated. First of all, it is much clearer that it is out of the concept of state property that is within the jurisdiction of this law and this ministry, and equally is what is not considered state property in this section. Article 8 has caused certain dilemmas, I find it completely justified, and I won't say normal because it's normal. It is not a problem for units of local self-government or regional in the adoption of spatial plans as we are obliged under certain laws to declare or send decisions to certain ministries why not state property? I don't think there's anything here that should be a problem. What is also very important to us at the HNS club is the Annual Property Management Plan which will certainly and only come to the Croatian Parliament where we will be able to draw the line and see how well we have planned, and that is, we will be able to deliver the result. The result of the work not only of the government, not only of the ministry, but also of detecting certain shortcomings that we have already detected in the very implementation of this law. Also, what I think is particularly important is the chapter 7 real estate management, the way it's managed. That is what I was saying in the introduction, however, it is far more precise and quality-defined here and the ministers have the support of the HNS Club for this financial amount of estimated asset value of 7.5 million. In the first debate, I said that it should be more for us. As a matter of principle, take responsibility for what you're doing, I don't see at all what should be controversial. Limit to a million kunas? Well, colleagues and colleagues, certain commissioners, mayors can work, with all due respect. What's the biggest step, that's art. 45. where both in previous years and coming before both audio and DUDI and now and before you, the requirements of local and regional self-government for state-owned properties mean whether they can realize their projects. It was mostly because no one came more or less with the request, although I believed in the history of negative examples, but it was mostly about the needs of local self-government to realise their projects but on state land, and we certainly support this spiritually, although it is different from our proposal for a law that we have sent amendments and additions to the Law on State Property Management still in 2015 and 2016 in principle, this is it. But in another way that I fully understand. Of course, as a liberal HNS party, it is for decentralisation and in this Law, in particular, there are certain elements in this article that indicate, and it is seen from the government's normative plan of activity, it is seen from both the main principles and the approach that this Government has, that it is going in this direction. I also understand why there is no single state property, and you are in the first reading and now and in the conversation that we have had, you have practically told me what I know, but of course I appreciate that certain capacities of local self-government are not at the level to be able to manage the basis of these laws, based on the principle in an adequate and quality way with the state property that would be given to them, assigned in terms of property. I therefore hope that by implementing decentralisation, and following that and last year, some laws have been passed that are just pointing to the beginnings of decentralisation, and I see in this Law, I believe that in the following periods, not too long, will go and in such a way that the Ministry will be disbursed and that with less people, it will be able to carry out certain tasks. Art. 71st, we also had observations there and I see that there has been some change. We absolutely support it because a large number of objects of such nature in local self-government are mostly a communal problem. That's one thing. The second thing, this property collapses, and that's where the expression of family silver was mentioned. Unfortunately, that silver has already rusted, but it has failed with the country's carelessness in an adequate way. What I would also like to point out, I believe that you are aware of this because I see that certain articles have also been foreseen, as the more quality way of applying this Law in its very implementation means, operating on it. What's a big problem and as far as state property itself is concerned, I believe that each of us knows at least one example. Whether he is given property on use or knows or wants to make a request, you have no documentation, you have no project documentation, you can't access construction permits, you can't access a valid permit, you have nothing to report or report, you have no project, you have no documentation necessary for that. It means I don't speak, cadastre and grantovna. You are aware of this problem not only as regards general but primarily state property. Unfortunately, it is the bureaucratic barrier that this Law cannot resolve. It is therefore an appeal to you and to the entire government to try to find a way. Do you think I'll mention a positive example that just came from HNS when we were in the previous government, two governments ago. Legalization law. It's a law that has its own deadline. Is it possible, but targeted exclusively for state property, to pass a similar law with the same, in a similar way that aims to grant and cadastrian middle state property so that it can be as some, let's also call it a pilot project, perhaps for setting up land books and for other and legal persons and practically the most for natural persons, because we as Croats own a lot of countries, which is otherwise an exception from other European countries. So here, and to you, try the rest of the departments, primarily the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the Ministry of Justice, try to find a way to sort out the grant and catastra. What I'd still like to point out, which is this, I know you and as a parliamentary representative I know your tenacity, I'm not going to say, what we usually say, stubbornness, when I draw something, I'm going to do it, but it's seen, from if you read more carefully, colleagues and colleagues, you can see it from this law. I know what I want, that's what I'm gonna do. I wish, Minister, to you and your team, and to all of us, that this law, through the circulatory period of 3 years, we would change, or, in a way, that certain assets should be transferred to local and regional self-government, to manage, to be able to decide to initiate the resolution of grant and catastra in the Republic. And finally, to succeed in that intention, which is to increase GDP which is the intensity of this law, as well as to increase the favourable business environment or the entrepreneurial climate, to come to a satisfactory level and one suggestion, one part of this law, of course, if other laws are dealt with through sublegal acts, otherwise here is more or less clear. When I was talking about principles, especially the principle of transparency, my suggestion, hard, whether you, if any of your associates, will not come under the glass, potential conflict of interest, because it's simply impossible in the Republic, out of so many residents, so many state-owned property, I've given myself the effort, so, the services have listed me as much property from apartments, business spaces, building land, garage, etc. that you won't get down to your ankle, I'll say, picturesquely, that you won't find yourself in some potential conflict of interest. Try to scout out, though all the mechanisms are, that there are no built-in laws, but here, in good faith, I want you to see more and to explore the possibilities well, to ensure yourself further. For reasons, from knowing you, I know you will not be, but we are witnessing in Croatia various cases, which have practically slowed down certain processes or aimed at destruction and slowing down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83284	I thank my esteemed colleague Batinić for this debate. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It's an injury. 238, since the spokesman, who spoke, was not telling the truth. Namely, at the vote of 11 November 2016, the HNS did not support the adoption of the law, which formed the Ministry of State Property Management, and today, at the beginning of its debate, Batinic found the opposite, or said that we supported it, which is an apparent untruth, and I think that because of such falseness, the same should be given a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83286	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. My fellow coat of arms, I agree that everyone in this House should be telling the truth, but if they did, there are many unspeakable lies. I'd just like to ask you to tell me in an article. 238, which article speaks and where the truth is mentioned. And since you're not mentioned, I don't think... Later on, my colleague, I don't think the injured Rules of Procedure, you, of course, have the right to request the opinion of the committee responsible, and in this way, we can solve this problem. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83287	Thank you. I'm not going to ask the Rules of Procedure Committee, I don't think there's any need here, but I'm going to ask you to comply with my article. 249th and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, since it is 1 hour now, allow me to present certain things on behalf of the SDP Club, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83288	I thank my colleague. And now you have violated the Rules of Procedure because you have an application to make the position of the club, which all other colleagues have submitted neatly, so I would ask you to provide us with that application in front of the SDP Club, to present the position of the club, and like everyone else, you will get that opportunity. Here's exactly 13.00 hours, based on art. In 249 and we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, here is my colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83289	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. In 238, a colleague of the coat of arms demeaning me, saying I wasn't telling the truth. I just want to remind him to take a phonogram and in his debate when there was a proposal on the establishment of the ministry, the HNS Club in principle supported the establishment of the ministry, we did not vote, for a decision, because the decision was integrated, not only on the structure, but also on activity, competence, etc. So in principle, we supported it, and I believe that a colleague of the coat of arms has hurt his rules of procedure, because he insults a representative to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83290	I thank my colleague Batinić. I understand your need to respond to your colleague Grbina, but I have opinions and opinions that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured and you two will settle this in at bilateral level. It's time to continue the debate on this agenda point. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, dear colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83292	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I find it sad and sad that after 27 years of independence from the Republic of Croatia, after the state property that we inherited from the former system and today we are discussing how our state property is failing, and how much of this property has failed in those 27 years since the tooth of time that was not in operation and how much this property has failed because of our famous Croatian privatisation, which even what was in function of state property has put out of service, ruined the economic operators and the property that has remained abandoned. The HSS believes that a quality State Property Act is a fair law that will deal with state property... A good economy is absolutely necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both non-functional state-owned assets and those in office, but especially companies that are 100 % state-owned in majority or where the Republic of Croatia is part state-owned are property that needs special care and needs a master. As Kutincan and Moslavcan, I am particularly in pain with Petrochemy Kutina in which the Republic of Croatia is a majority owner and which unfortunately is a pile of losses because the Republic of Croatia does not want to give the guarantee to Petrochemija at the bank that it can buy gas on the free market. That's why they lose 300-350 million kuna a year, and their loss is 146 million. Along with Petrokemija, there are many companies where there is bad availability, and where those who run such companies, administrations or directors have very good and high wages and all other benefits that go along with it. We are witnessing in a large number of municipalities and cities where state property falls, we have witnessed how many municipalities and cities have had to pray to the ministry or some other ministries for years and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to assign such property to them to function or offer it to local entrepreneurs or future investors for use for a certain amount of whether it is larger or smaller is irrelevant. Today we have a problem for young people, but not just young people. They are over 300 thousand who have left the Republic of Croatia because of their lack of work, which is due to low income, and there are many who no longer believe in this system of the Republic of Croatia as it is today, who went with their belly after bread, and perhaps some of them could have become entrepreneurs in these abandoned state buildings, halls because it's sad to see how many halls and buildings fail because no one is taking care of them and that we can't find a way to give them to someone in a transparent way to try to create some kind of business environment or apartment in such facilities. This final proposal for a law against first reading has certain improvements because the comments of first-readers are accepted to a certain extent in the first-reading debate, in particular what we are all up against, which is Article 68. The current Article 69 where the provisions prescribed by the city obligation have been deleted, the municipality shall repay the financial resources to the state of formerly available properties. This, as we warned local self-government units, would create major financial problems in view of their budgets. We certainly welcome that shift because it is at the best of all our citizens. However, what is important is that this Final Proposal of the State Property Management Act missed the transfer of property to the units of local self-government to manage it themselves as, of course, the one that is of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia should remain there, but the one that can be given to the management of the units of local self-government and located in their area should have been accelerated and improved by this way of managing that property. They received a partial possibility of making that property available without compensation, but without clearly certain criteria. And we know when there are no clear criteria in the Republic of Croatia for something that happens during that case. We didn't witness these situations once. Some units of local self-government and regional and regional self-government shared certain parts of state property with hand and cap, but they were mostly those of municipalities, cities or counties in which they dominate and which are given because they are nicer and smarter than others. But also in other municipalities and cities and counties where HDZ is not in power with partners are also our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay taxes, their taxes, their directors, the same should be treated without double standards. I could name certain examples here, but there'll probably be a later chance. It would be a much better solution if the law in its provisions unequivocally and clearly laid down the rights and obligations of all participants, to know clearly and which property is left to units of local self-government, or which land will pass into the ownership of units, which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. But how are we supposed to do all that when we still haven't listed all the state property after 27 years? After 27 years, the Republic of Croatia does not know what its property is or what its condition is. I don't know how long it takes, I guess, a whole century. This is how we have a law where our chiefs, mayors, will write demands, ask the Ministry of Property to assign them, the Prime Minister and some who will be "good" they may approve, and those who are not good or perhaps similar to them will be ignored. Unfortunately, we have witnessed how long these actions have lasted. In a year, two, five, some have never finished, never been assigned, and it still fails. There are also examples without clear provisions in Article 8 which states that the units of local and regional self-government are obliged to deliver a decision to the Ministry on a spatial plan with a call from the Ministry to submit requests for the establishment of the plan, and no deadline is prescribed. Why isn't the deadline prescribed? Is it because it can be stopped somewhere, and somewhere it can be accelerated? This law does not offer any solution for long-term accounting and ownership procedures. Of course, the minister defends that it will be resolved by other laws, but the fact is that this law should also offer certain solutions to facilitate the process. Furthermore, it is not possible to assign parts of state dwellings that stare empty to our Croatian wartime disableds and defenders that we know that, unfortunately, many of them still have not solved the housing issue. Aren't the apartments provided by the Croatian Defence Department also owned by the state? Yeah, well, then these apartments could offer to those who want to move in. We don't consider it a good solution, nor is it that the Resolute Ministry no longer runs the State Property Register, but you have transferred it to the Central State Register. This will at least put us in a position to walk us from the institution to the institution. I will repeat that we do not agree with the final proposal when it comes to decision-making and decision-making. The HSS believes that the minister has given himself too much authority, means the right to make up to 7.5 million kuna itself decisions on the fate of state property, especially in the context of the assessment of the authorised court expert, the reduction of the initial prices after the first and second rounds and after that if there are no interested, free or direct contracts to enter into a contract. This says that a large space opens up with possible guessing actions, we have already passed in history because whoever is at the source of information will find out that some properties have no interest in the price being none and that as such can qualityly agree with the minister and buy yourself into a function for a very small amount. The proposal of the HSS is not to go this way but to go after the first or second round of interests goes to public bidding so who gives more. If only one interested person appears and gives only one kuna then it is public and transparent and in such a way the availability cannot be objected to. In short, a quality and fair law is needed by the Republic of Croatia, we need quality records of 100 percent of the records that we know what this is about, we need transparent and responsible management of state property care. It is necessary to speed up the process in order to put as much assets into operation as possible, attract investment and save as much of the assets as possible from collapse, but to preserve and create new jobs and help some people not to have to run across Europe after bread. One more thing about state property, and even state land, in the end it refers even to agricultural state land is something called peaceful property. The possibility of forced entry, unlawful entry into state property or on state land opens up the possibility that, after the application, if the State's Attorney's Office does not react within 30 days, the person is considered to be in a peaceful possession, which also opens up a space for malfeasance and for the possibility of befitting some people to reach state property. The government will continue to allocate properties where they are similar to the authorities, unfortunately. Unfortunately, this proposal does not prevent the allocation of property by party convenience and belonging, but what else is expected here after this hotmail affair which is the last, after all these powerful emails, after the Agrokor affair where really Croatian people are sad when they watch what is happening, regardless of what some think the people are naive and do not understand what is going on here. I believe that the law should further improve, prevent any possibility of State property malversion and speed it up as much as possible. This is why this HSS club won't support this proposal unless it's finished and unfortunately we won't vote for it at the next vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83293	I thank my esteemed colleague, Leonard. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83294	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable representatives of the ministry. Here's a very important law on state property, on public good, on general good. The fact that this law shows that with a million kunas held by the minister of power and shares and movables and real estate now jump to 7.5 million kunas or million euros, which means another centralism, i.e. one option and smaller control over state property. I asked a basic question this morning and a key question about how it is mastered by state property, I mentioned the Osseva Peninsula in Makarska. He's not whole with the maritime good, he's part, the minister said it's a maritime good that he doesn't manage it, he's not the whole maritime good. The maritime well is several beaches and what is by the sea, but the peninsula is state property. I would once again say that you stand on the bumper and protect you as the heads of state property of that pearl peninsula with the most beautiful beaches, among the ten salaries in the world because the Macarans have collected five thousand signatures, it is known to the prime minister because his uncle is directly involved in the whole story by the prime minister. He knows that area where he was taking a bath, so take a vacation to protect Osebava from concreteization. It's a 22-hectare peninsula, it's our good, it's in the heart of Makarska one natural good, it's one pearl of the Adriatic. They work for someone boss. For who? I don't know. And local self-government is down where HDZ is in power, there is also the SDP that has given them support. In the county, I talked about this, everybody's quiet, they're all washing their hands, but it's mostly owned by the peninsula of the state. That's where we see her from this north side and the hotel. I ask you once again, five thousand signatures were, yesterday was a protest, the city council was half closed to the media, protect that space. I mentioned a number of unsolved situations. We're like the country that imports a lot of food, and the state owner... now in bankruptcy, the greenhouses in the Kaštelan greenhouse, there's dozens of acres of greenhouses that had the best products of the world's prized salad further suddenly it was purposely destroyed. What is the aim of the intention that workers did not charge, I hear that they could be charged from the part that is sold below, that is, by the very airport in Split on the other hand in Kašteli, that is. It is a huge resource and potential, I repeat the complete infrastructure of greenhouses where they were rewarded and were one of the largest exporters of vegetables in Croatia. At this point, it's collapsed, it's devasting a little bit, but to save itself. Who was interested in importing food without destroying it? Of course we'll have after and after the law, probably Monsantu and their lobbyists in the case of GMO products. It was healthy organic food in Kaštel. And they say it's another 15 times that the surface would be so that Croatia could export it. Here's another greenhouse, which you're familiar with, yesterday was it now in a bankruptcy procedure, but without state, this is about state property without state that problem cannot be solved because these lobbyists are... around food and import are too strong and because it was targeted they were destroyed so, one of the brands below Dalmatia and Croatia in food production, it was vegetable food, it was Kaštelan greenhouses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One more short. You can see it's centralized here. It is centralized for the reason that too much authority is given to one person. So so far, up to a million kunas and shares and real estate and movables have been decided by the minister, now it rises to a million euros or 7.5 million kunas. That's why I'm going to give the amendment, I've already given it, I'm going to refer it to the procedure because it simply turns out that this law is paved by good wishes, as the minister has described to us by the Split military Dračevac. In 2009, I also had photographs, I'm sorry I didn't bring it now, and Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, mayor of Split Kuret, assigned a military Dračevac to the city. A few days ago, Prime Minister Plenkovic in Split awarded the present mayor, Mr. Opari, the same facility with the difference that he gave part of the church, he says here. The only part that has already been given to the city in 2009 has now been given. Sanader. Normally, it's pre-election times or when there's some kind of crisis, then we're just giving the same surface. So as it is possible in one country that twice, and this same government, here in this case HDZ was in power and then Ivo Sanader was in power, we have people in parliament who were at that time. How can they make fun of citizens and state property in this way? In 2009, this military facility was preserved. Let's see what's wrong with the military. Broken windows, installations pulled out, it's a huge complex, I think 60 acres in Split itself. The damage to the damage. Someone would have to go to jail for this, if the problem was solved in 2009. I'd ask you to leave one more time and see if you can add up the damage to the military Dračevac. I know because I was a Croatian soldier in that army for years, so I know what a military-looking woman looked like, how a military was held, how well she was military, but twice the same thing to give. 2009 and now. And I ask you to see how much damage there is and who is responsible for the damage to the military Dračevac. So, Kaštelan greenhouses, military Dračevac, Osseva. It's state property. So now I've said a few of those examples that are expensive. And we won't talk about other military facilities in other areas. Also, a relationship to military facilities is very important. So, military surfaces that are along the coast, pay attention to that too and there someone throws their paws to make it as transparent as it has been so far, as is the case of Osjejav where it is directly involved who in Santa Barbara almost the entire family of Prime Minister Plenkovic, so it's hard to figure it out now. But I would ask you to save that natural wealth, that pearl of the Adriatic with the most beautiful beaches. Once again here, I told the minister this morning that the road to hell is paved with beautiful desires and I am therefore giving this amendment because it is centralized, we saw and parallel here the mayor and the commissioner, said colleague Pranjic of his remarks, that they are not satisfied, that this is centralized and therefore here, this one amendment, we hope that the other MPs will give other amendments, try to save what is to be saved in this Law. But it's a lot more important to do, not the same thing two, three times repeat. I can put it another way. It is also a major problem, mainly the Dalmatian Zagora and the island of Hvar. In 2005, the contract was signed that by 2008 it would be finished... Woodchuck. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But in 2000, not only is it not almost 2008 but in 2009 colleagues Bacic and colleagues then President Bebic open... Woodchuck, they've built five meters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's life-threatening because the road is no end, and down... There's a couple of trucks in the hole. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was there. A couple of trucks stand, a couple of trucks of these regrets, so a man the night he goes with... The sea flies down on the highway, on the highway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I want to tell you what they are inconclusive of these parts, but I promise the people enough, you know. And that's not good, numerous tunnels, bypasses, but every 3-4 years, it's still too much. At least it's every decade, but people do know they're forgetting about the information they've released on a daily basis, but here I expect we won't make fun of, play with our people. Once again, I will give the amendment to this amount, I expect fellow MPs to support it and that in this way I will also preserve you in the Ministry, and ministers from decisions that can be harmful because he decides for himself, better to decide in a way that is wider, that there are more people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83295	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, I really don't know why you're surprised, why Vojarna Dračevac is twice a day owned by the city of Split when here, and under the new law the records of state property are not a public register so the maltenes in this Act that should be the most transparent law we have an item that the records of state property are not a public register. You mean you can't in one place which is actually state property, which is property owned, the country's portfolio and the like. I agree with the paragraph of 7.5 million kuna that the minister may have, but there is another item in the article. 38. which says, if the real estate process is repeated because no valid offer has arrived in the first round of proceedings, the initial fee price may be reduced in relation to the price of the fee provided for in the first available procedure in accordance with the opinion of the authorised persons. But that doesn't mean what procedure. So you can sell in the first round real estate worth a million kunas, no one wants to buy it, the minority she can go to half a million kunas in the second procedure. There's absolutely no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83297	I thank my colleague Pranic. Answer. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83298	Well, yes, we don't have a public register or property owners of these companies in the Republic of Croatia to protect against corruption and encourage terrorism, while in the EU, our parliamentarians who are from the same political options vote. Therefore, it is not surprising, and it would have to be a public register would have to be a basic instrument to see which state property we have at our disposal and that we must transparently all citizens at any time see it from individuals, legal, legal persons who are interested in it. That's why I'm not surprised, and of course with this amendment of mine, I'm actually going to help ensure transparency because these are huge amounts of a million euros. 50 times a million euros is 50m euros. So it's huge money, and I believe that this amendment will be accepted by most MPs here solely for the sake of transparency and decentralisation of power, not to be so powerful for an individual in the hands because this law essentially only gives enormous power to an individual, and that is the minister that a huge amount, a huge value of real estate, shares and movable sea allocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83299	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83300	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I would like to replicate to my colleague Bulja, who is systematically here today at the Assembly session, and in recent days he has kept repeating one thing that military Dračevac is unnecessarily assigned twice to the city of Split, and he forgets the prominent fact that led to this. That the previous two mayors forgot to take the opportunity to bring in a military Dračevac purpose. So, they did not spend or build a parcel or anything else or normally, it was 5 years, and this military was not translated for a purpose and there was nothing left but to go back to the government for a decision and therefore this Croatian government made it and we practically, now the prospects are opening up for us to withdraw 20m euros from European funds and create a number of jobs. So stop planting, spread things like that that absolutely don't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83301	I thank my colleague, Peter Skoric. Answer. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83302	My colleague Škorić, you really every time, tomorrow I will bring a big picture of Sanader, Kuret and a big title, the mayor of formerly awarded military state property to Dračevac city of Split. You're telling me I'm lying and cheating. And the whole public, very simply, google, you'll see 2009. Well, it's not a lie. Who's responsible for the damage? All the time... You and Kerum weren't very bad relations at the time when he was mayor in Split. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're not in the county bad with him now or in town. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the same bike. You know how you get... They're allotting the marine well-being. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't tell the truth. In 2009, the city of Split was given the meaning, it was publicly assigned to the government's meeting and now again. And now again. Where's he got that? So you mock the people of Split and the people. I know what, who's going to pay for the damage to Peter? Who will pay for the damage to everyone destroyed in that barracks in the buildings...../The speakers speak out loud....
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83303	We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83304	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We are facing today's proposal for a law on state property management. I think it's one of the most important laws because functional, rational and effective management of state assets is very important for each country because the state that manages its assets in this way has actually dead capital. This Law and the Minister with a team working on this Law have shown in fact that it is in their interest to place state property in a better way and more efficient than it has ever been before, to encourage and develop units of local self-government by acting as state property in favour of units of local and regional self-government, and we see it best through Article 45. Laws and through art. 70. In fact, Article 45 of the proposed Law states that the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia may be made available to the same authorities without compensation for the purpose of putting these properties into operation of economic progress, because of some social needs or demographic progress, but above all because of the launch of certain investment projects, because we all know very well that neither today nor anyone, in particular the units of local and regional self-government that want to develop in their own area, are planning projects but cannot start them without first solving property-legal relations, nor can they withdraw funds from the EU funds without it. The second article also contributes to the position of state property in favour of units of local and regional self-government is art. 70th, in the first reading of Art. 69. In fact, those properties which, under certain specific regulations, should be owned by units of local or regional self-government or its institutions. It will, in fact, become after the entry into force of this Law. It is about schools, health homes, markets, firehouses, homes that were simply built by our fellow citizens and in numerous areas affected by the war and where the missing documentation today is difficult in certain regular procedures and to prove that these homes are registered as the property of those who invested in them, primarily local and regional self-government units. So I think that in this way, a number of procedures will be shortened, the judiciary will be relieved, and that is indeed a good approach to sharpening what should be done in fact because all of these ex-legislative properties have been entered by law enforcement at one point and that is now so factually created. Furthermore, I believe that the new Article 68 of the Law has also been very positive where compensation to units of local and regional self-government that paid land compensation to natural persons was taken from them during the Yugoslav communist rule, which, by force of the law, became the property of the Republic of Croatia, in favour of units of local self-government in value to the total amount of compensation paid for the seized land, thus making compensation to units of local and regional self-government. What I would also like to emphasise is that effective management of state property is not possible without a good property register. Of course, any owner, let's take our leave if we don't know what we're dealing with, we can't take good care of it. So I'm also counting on the Ministry to take care of it. We see that some newspapers are being introduced in this law, and I think we'll have better records in the future than we've had before. I also think it's a positive step in the law that allows for faster decision-making on the availability of state property. So far, we've had a commission institute that ends with this law. I believe that precisely because of what many and the leaders of the units of local and regional self-government have complained about when they are either in the donation or in the replacement of real estate, etc. and any other availability waited a few years for the problem to be solved, I think this way these procedures will be further accelerated and it is good to pursue more efficient procedures. I believe that the proposed amount is the limit amount to decide whether it is the minister who decides or the government is realistic in relation to the estimates that today are those properties which they have because I believe that the value of the property of a million kuna is the amount that is truly minimal. I must point out that this is really not a matter of transparency because there is still a public tender and an assessment of an independent real estate expert, only at the end of that formal decision after the entire tender procedure is carried out by the minister when it comes to assessing real estate up to 7.5 million kuna. I want to say that I hope that real governance of state property in the future will be more effective and that it will really be in line with these principles that are laid down by law because it is in everyone's best interests and the state itself, but also for us as its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83305	I thank my esteemed colleague Jelkovac. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Jelkovac. I agree that the intensity of this law is in good condition that ex-lege can give us ownership of, say, squares, morgues and so forth, but I'd rather we own the land where hotels, camps and others can be built, because I don't know how many jobs will be opened in the local self-government unit, given that this law makes it easier for us to register a certain infrastructure that malts do not contribute to the entrepreneurial development of local self-government units, without leaving the building complete area from the state to the local self-government units all that was covered by '91. We can't talk about the development component of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83307	I thank my colleague Pranic. A colleague of Jelkovac's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83308	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague, I can't quite agree with you. Therefore, the proposed law also takes into account any requirement of local and regional self-government units in the construction area to assign the property to be placed in the function of a particular project will be available for free of charge to the local and regional self-government unit. Of course this may be the first step, but very significant in decentralisation. Of course, all units of local and regional self-government are more difficult and considered, and so am I, who used to work in a local self-government unit, I believe that the local self-government units are the most called and that perhaps the best ones can manage what is in their area. But here's a first and a very significant step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83309	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83310	Comrade Jelkovac, I will proceed immediately. Lip step, what is a burden to give to local self-governments, and where there will be hotels, golf courses and those values we will leave it to the state and we will further increase the minister's power from one million kuna to one million euros, lip step. It's not transparent here, unless the register of state property is transparent and publicly open we have nothing to say. There must be fear of all of us MPs here. So let's remember how it was managed, so for the time of all governments and HDZ and SDP, that banks, HT, let's remember buying trucks, INA, MOL, let's remember all these stories that were in state or real estate or movable property or in shares that went one ugly way. It's a robbery. But here we still don't have transparency in this part, that's the problem, we don't have a public register open to this law and that's one of the key problems. And we gave the minister, we gave one man much more authority, much greater amount... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83311	Thank you, colleague Bulj, for your response, colleague Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83312	My colleague Bulj, I disagree with you, that there is no transparency here, so I said a little while of my colleagues, the law has transparently predicted in which situations, in which way state property management will be given to local and regional self-government units, in which situations will be given into ownership, in which other ways it will be made available. Of course, as far as the register of state property is concerned, I also disagree with you, and I believe that all this which is not resolved to the end by this law in its own practice will be settled by regulations, which will also be prescribed procedures on all the detailed actions for each of these activities, and I think that this will be another contribution to transparency. Everyone will be able to know how, how they manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83313	I thank my colleague Jelkovac. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83314	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, State Secretary, Assistant Minister. By preparing for this debate and this law and listening to the debates so far, and given the shortness of time, because, literally through its 12-year experience in the management of the city, it could present in every article of this law a whole series of examples from practices that are in some way, it would make it difficult both to work and develop and not just to have an economy but also to fill the budget, not only units of local self-government, cities, municipalities, but also states. However, as we have little time, I will concentrate on just a few articles of this law, and just as we have so far, by colleagues, who in some ways express... according to this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, Art. 8, Art. 45, Art. Article 47.68. and 69. When we talk about Art. 8. where this law requires units of local self-government to notify the Ministry of State Property, that they have launched a spatial plan. Why did I get caught up in this article? It's simply for the reason that I'm showing here how far a law has been passed in this House of Commons can block the situation and the development on the ground. So, in 2014, we brought the so-called the famous Maras law on entrepreneurship infrastructure, which blocked all units of local self-government and the development of their entrepreneurship zones in that section relating to state property, within spatial plans in the area. The law required that units of local self-government could not obtain land unless there was a business zone within 20 km that was not filled 66%. The same criteria were introduced at 66%. And what every reasonable mayor, chief and every reasonable city council could bring, apart from changing the spatial plan, the state land would throw out and put it in the green zone, and put private property in building land, so that it could develop, because it was simply impossible to develop on that part that was state-owned. It's one thing, another thing, Art. 45th and 47th. which directly refers to land which would be given to local self-government units for free of charge. So, this is precisely the interest of cities and municipalities, to get land without compensation, to build infrastructure on that land, so that they can bring economic operators on that land, to create jobs and to plan the development of units and cities, and thus the Republic of Croatia. I'm a little surprised. In 47. maybe that word should be evicted, because in this article where land is being replaced between the unit of local self-government, the city and the municipality and the state, it is listed only in exceptional cases. Why would it be exceptional if the economic interest in this is highly indicated. And Art. In the first reading, I personally made a series of remarks on this law during the debate, and one of the main ones was this one and my colleague Giovanni Sponza talked about it, it was about returning funds to the state budget, for land sold at the moment, while the owner of ownership had units of local self-government. I will also give you a concrete example, why this is good and why it is good to accept this proposal and why it is in art. 69. a particularly regulated one, where this land is allowed to be placed into operation. Here, colleague, that is, State Secretary Mr Tomislav Boban, I know this personally because at the time we contacted him 10 years ago about this problem. So, the Čavle municipality, precisely that kind of land owned by the local self-government unit, and the Čavle municipality, found an investor, the investor bought land from them, signed a contract, the land was paid, then blocked everything, because after the purchase of the Republic of Croatia, respectively, the State Attorney's Office according to the '91 agricultural land regulation. according to spatial plans registered ownership of the Republic of Croatia. No investors, no jobs, and the land was blocked. This article. 69th and that's all it's justified for everyone to raise for this law. Just for that reason, not to speak for the other reasons set out in this law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Ninety years, practically four. We torture both the homes of culture and the cemeteries and all those lands that were already in functions as firehouses, built during Yugoslavia and after Yugoslavia. My personal example, that in Krasica's settlement, in order to solve property legal relations at home culture, I lost six years of work, it was blocked, only because the procedure required such a model that I didn't know how many paperwork, I don't know how many contacts with DUDI first, Audi, and now at this point the Ministry of State Property and only when the Ministry of State Property started working we managed to solve this problem. So this article 70 solves a whole series of problems that haven't been solved in years without talking about one laugh that's happened, that's a crime to me. The moment the Audio went out, formed DUUDI, all our demands, and that units of local self-government, cities, municipalities we didn't know about, were placed... Someone should answer for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Mail affair is 0 compared to what was on the rule at that time, the Mail affairs are not at all, because someone at some point has to make some decision, and the decision is also held by some responsibility and this responsibility is reflected through development, through job insurance, through everything that needs to be done on the ground and saved the company from working and hiring people. In this example of the neighboring municipality of Chavela, I personally know that because I am familiar with this company, the municipality has lost 104,000 kuna per month only communal fees. The company was supposed to employ 104 workers. Because of the provision of such a law, because of this model and the way it was available, the municipality simply lost its full income. As far as everything else in this law is concerned, and why is its adoption, let's say, one of the first wheels that goes in the direction in which we all want decentralisation, where exactly what's different is going towards the units of local self-government. Of course, we will not be satisfied entirely, of course, that this law will surely have to undergo changes during its implementation, but in any case this is the step that was to be taken and it is good that both the Ministry and the Secretary of State and the Assistant Ministers have been with us several times, that the debate in the first reading was also quite critical and that if we consider how much the remarks from the first reading were respected and incorporated into this final bill, I think there is absolutely no reason for it to be adopted as such and not adopted. I am saying that time will show all its benefits, and that the Ministry of State Property will certainly have problems implementing this law because I think that, in the past experience, neither has it been teamed up enough, nor can it at this time, given the unsettled land books, the catastra, with insufficient data in its assets located in the territory of the entire Republic, which has not been regulated for years, that there will be a lot of difficulties in that work. However, all these articles of the law, directly those relating to units of local self-government, are very acceptable and I think that we need them all together and adopt this law, because it will allow us a much simpler model of land available in the premises of local self-government units, within the scope of the spatial plans of certain purposes, especially in the part which is intended for economic functions, because in this example I will end up, where my city was won in 2011. 126,000 square meters of land, now 4000 employees, 220 companies and 2016 had a income of 21 billion and a half kuna, how many tax revenues from them came into the state budget you can only imagine, but this gift contract has certainly fulfilled its function and not only in the area of my city, but also in all units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83315	Thank you, dear colleague Klaric. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State property is the wealth the Republic of Croatia has and manages. This wealth makes sense and true value only if the entire society has an effective benefit from the availability and management of this property, in other words so much land and real estate has been lying and lying, at least until now, throughout the Republic of Croatia that it is free and rightly called dead capital, because wealth in real estate and land is not the purpose of itself. The whole series of problems have cities and municipalities that are eager above all to clear the relationship of states, local self-government. In this direction, we are looking at this proposal of the Law on State Property Management. You can observe and read this proposal from new angles and we'll all try and try and find plus and minus this law. Nothing is ideal so neither is this proposal, but this law, at least as far as local self-government is concerned, and that's what most colleagues here pointed out, is a step forward and will certainly help clear these mentioned relationships. In my first reading, I said that everything that is inexplicable, inextricable and in the collapse phase should be allowed to legally get the opportunity to use it for development purposes, for the purpose of the economy, for the purpose of creating living conditions, for demographics. In one word, return the real sense of managing so much property owned by the Republic of Croatia. We can freely say that the turnaround was made through this law, because by law and concrete provisions this ministry really wants to order property is a good thing that can be legally held, cities, municipalities, businessmen, present and future investors, all of you who have a vision and the possibilities to create a new value, here is a chance to develop and create new opportunities for all who are on track to want to work and create. What makes it most important for many of the mayors and mayors through this law is, among other things, Article 45, which allows for the availability of property without compensation, and for the purpose of entrepreneurship infrastructure, entrepreneurship zones, investment projects. Then, for projects of general good, such as the construction of schools, kindergartens, hospitals, health homes, cemeterys, sports facilities, the availability of housing programmes and socially stimulating housing. Programmes of implementation so often these days mentioned and all these months of demographic renewal. Many have cities and municipalities of waste management problems, many have problems that are not so fortunate that they had facilities already stored in their places, already ready, only had to be refurbished through spatial plans and sent requests to the Office of State Property or the current ministry. So also in the Chetino area and in the Dalmatian hinterland, as the colleagues here testify, many cities and municipalities are not so fortunate and I believe that this Law, through this article, will mention that, in one legal way, through the definition of spatial plans, allow cities and municipalities to further develop and realise many projects, especially since we are now following a new phase of negotiations for projects and withdrawing funds from EU funds. We know that many are now catching special trains, so to speak, the final competitions, but this law can be a prerequisite for what we are going to do in the new cycle of 2020. Therefore, every commendation is a step. I said, not everything is ideal, so many will find some flaw in this bill too, but what I repeat is life and what it is worth to support, which will facilitate the complete development and functioning of local self-government is certainly visible in this final law proposal. So I will end with a desire and a will to get there as soon as possible, and we heard today the minister that he announced that, practically from next Friday, we will be able to go to the results of this Law. I believe that we will all welcome together that first of all, both the businessmen and all those who care about cities and municipalities will be able to implement their projects as soon as possible with the help of this ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83317	I would like to thank my colleague, Šipić. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83318	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Šipić, here's an example from our neighborhood. So, the hotel Croatia in Baška Voda was for the first time closed, and it had reservations for this year and was qualified for work, and now its workers were transferred to Baška Polje. And of course you need to see who's responsible for selling the hotel before the season itself, which will not be income from the tax budget, which will not be income from the residence tax and that are lost jobs. So I'm not going to share so much of your optimism in your debate. I hope, of course, that the Ministry will fix this mistake and that there will be no cases like this in the future. I see that colleague Roscic reported the same for the debate, so I hope she will have some more detailed information on this, this I am asked by the workers to say this in the Assembly, to mention this example as a negative example of state property management at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83319	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Answer, fellow Shipic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83320	Well, I said that in my brief debate that the Ministry of State Property is not just attached to local self-government. One of the topics is what you said. So he manages the entire beauty of the property, and one is the tourist potential. I might now be able to say a brief question in this debate, as to why this even happened under quotes or without an quote from the Ministry of Response in such a way. Who brought it in and in what way? But you said well, here behind me will come a colleague who is in that area and lives there, certainly has better information about this topic, which is the topic of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83321	I would like to thank my colleague, Šipic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83322	Comrade Šipić, would you like to be the head of the local self-government if you liked the land where you will be incomed to get to management, where the Ministry of Hotels, Golf Courses, and you are required examples of 30 million kunas to make infrastructures, roads and that or what you will get, which is good, cemetery, morgues, squares and similar to management where you need to invest. Therefore, by this Law, where the land is worth winning, and to you as the local leader, i.e. The local self-government will remain only obligations. Obligations to build municipal infrastructure and that is the problem where we will go with that amendment. And here it means, the centralized are the best meanings, the best real estate and movables and land, and in fact it's given to local self-government what's good, but basically it's just an obligation for you to pay for it. So everything here is simple. Local self-government here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83323	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, fellow Shipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you should also know that your colleague Pranic knows very well that there is a communal fee and a communal contribution that is regularly made from these parts, only slowly, you do not have to insert me when You won't let me finish thinking. [[Intruding Brkić: A colleague of Pranic, please.]] So, as far as I'm concerned, I know what you're getting at. So the state has assigned and will assign to cities and municipalities, and that is evident in this Law. As far as I can see. In particular, for the purpose of the implementation of the project of construction and entrepreneurship infrastructure, i.e. entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions in accordance with the specific law, this article shall be implemented for the purpose of making available, available, and Article 1 and 2 of this Article. So, the land will continue to be donated and made available, and for specific investments, it is normal for the State to also be able to implement the Ministry for certain investments, to conduct a tender. I've been to the Ministry recently...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83325	Thank you, colleague Šipić. Your time is up, thank you very much. Please, Comrade Bull, don't come in while you're at it because no one's bothering you. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's the thing: I'm going to do a little bit on this good law, since here's one of the most important laws, but also the problems they've been dealing with for years, mostly everyone's been dealing with, but nobody's done it in a way that makes it possible to effectively manage state property. We've been through periods and agencies and state offices, and we think that through the ministry in this government, it's finally caught a level of seriousness enough that we can deal with these property issues really in the best possible way. This also shows the proposal for this law because the fact is that it brings some important news, so I would say benefits in terms of managing effective management of state property. If we manage this effectively, it is certain that this will also have an impact on, positive impact on GDP growth, on the revenues of the state budget, and the possible resolution of property legal relations can also ensure greater employment and, of course, the most important that we can finally resolve property-legal relations that have been observed for decades and remain unsolved or somewhere in the clouds are opportunities but are not exploited or insufficiently effective. Another example, I say, that this government is caught up with one problem that has been delayed for decades and that then we only have small attempts or some solutions that have remained in drawers forever, I say, the benefits are certainly great. What brings more or less senses, what I will look at, very briefly, means the notion of state property was added to mountaineering homes with belonging land, local self-government based on Article 69, what we have now had in our first reading, means the return of financial assets that they acquired from the foundation of legal transactions over real estate owned by the Republic of Croatia, they do not have to do, thanks for listening to us, better monitoring the business of legal persons than the interests of the Republic of Croatia, further availability of real estate by direct contract except apartments are now there and real estate. The prescribed possibility of making real estate available for the benefit of local self-government as a possibility to actually effectively use land owned by the Republic of Croatia. The solved problem of land deposited, it is indeed something that has plagued not all local self-government and there are several that we have followed over the past 15 years at least which I remember,... The old town, which with a budget of 7 or 8 million kuna, had to pay an annual large amount, simply could not develop or have funds to invest in any infrastructure without having owned nothing, someone owned the hotel, someone returned it, the Republic of Croatia mostly through the agencies and someone else paid. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This must be a big help to them. We still have the rest, and I say putting into function real estate for which no property-legal relations like former resorts are solved, which makes the coast a really big problem, and that's quite well solved. What no one may have talked about today is Article 66, which concerns the shares acquired in the conversion and privatisation where the provision of this article provides for a legal solution regarding shares or business shares purchased in so-called ‘. the unlawful discount is contrary to Article 19(1). The law on converted companies bought at a discount and on a ring payment in several companies in total nominal value higher than the value of 20,000 German marks at that time. Since, for 20 years, due to the above, the holders of shares, i.e. business shares, cannot be determined by the payment of those shares, the relevant entries of the central clinical depository company or the books of the companies cannot be made, it was necessary to resolve the problem and enable customers to pay the shares in question. It is indeed one newspaper that can clarify many situations in many people who have received such shares, however, they are not listed anywhere or appear in congregations or have certain rights, and they may probably have the right to comply with the provisions of this law within 6 months to apply for a debt that can be paid or at least one-time or at least 5% so that they can be introduced into a book and agreed on the way they will pay off that share and to settle relations within these companies. I think this is very important for our citizens because many may have missed it or forgotten it, probably have something, there have been both inheritance and transfer of certain shares and that this has never been resolved until the end. All in all, good law, one more step forward in the management of state property and I think here, another example that in good cooperation and through two readings in the Assembly can be made an act that will encourage the resolution of all land relations owned by the Republic of Croatia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83327	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josip Boric, and I set a break until 3:00. It's a meeting at 14.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83328	[[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] We'll start with that in private society, wait for someone else to stray by chance, and we have as the first individual debate of Mrs. Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83329	I would like to thank the chairman, and I would like to welcome Mr. Boban's representative. I would point out that this is about the State Property Management Act, and we've opened up some broader topics in today's debate. I'm glad some colleagues also talked about the problem of managing the hotel Croatia. I would just point out that here in my small municipality, that there are a lot of these problems, there are lots of such objects, right near the field where the village of Krvavica and this hotel Croatia, which are state property. They may not mean anything to our colleagues, but we all know that it means tourism to us and when we look at how much Croatia means tourism that we've crossed 100 million overnights and that in the subbicokow in 6 municipalities, each of these municipalities that don't count together as one middle city, are about 10% of Croatian tourism, and these objects used to have nights themselves as much as they have municipalities without them, because most of them aren't functional, then we know how important it is. Some parts of the management of that state property, even the judiciary, and some charges have been filed, and that's why we would not discuss this part here, but rather discuss this legislative sphere, which we in the Assembly do, because sometimes when I see some fellow MPs talking, God forbid we don't have a separate legislative and judicial authority, because then there's no evidence, no arguments. And it doesn't suck, because it's been encouraged by these illogical things, but let's see what's going on in this law, it would point out 3, 4 things that I think should be highlighted at the end of this debate. This is the part about the land deposit, specifically my municipality is not concerned, but when you see that southern part of the subbirque or some call it the Makarska Riviera, when you look at Gradac, Podgora, so when you look at Brele and parts of Makarska, but especially, Podgora and Gradac, you see that they are infrastructureally much more underdeveloped than the rest. Why? Because they, apart from the problems affecting this state property, need to collect land from their budget, say the municipality of Podgora, as its chief informed me 2 million kn per year, to pay those damages. Although it is not their fault, this law allows them to make it up to them. The sum of all these givings is bigger than their annual budget, and that's what's crucial, very important, to get it back into their assets, in the stocks, and I think that's going to be one big thing. We can discuss here whether these municipalities could have been different, but the question is which people were in charge of them, how much they knew, and it's not right for citizens to suffer because it's a real fact that they weren't responsible for these things and that it's good that everything they paid them without here we've established the right basis for them to come back. As for the management of state property, we mentioned here and the CERP, well that the supervision of the CERP is expanding, that some other bodies are being brought into the supervisory board, and that is very important. She would also repeat here for the Municipality of Gradac, as many as 17 properties, a 250-bedroom hotel, is the one that prohibits the availability and adoption of this law, allowing activation, which is very important. What's important, and it's waiting for us in the next period are procedures and procedures. One part of the procedure will be at the Ministry of State Property and they are shortened, that's good. But that doesn't mean that we're going to manage it, activate it quickly, and we're going to manage it quickly, because some parts and all of these activation procedures are on various other resolutions, and the future period requires a great synergy of all the ministries, all the resolutions, all the bodies with public powers to function properly. As far as mountaineering homes are concerned, I am personally interested in how to manage them. The mountaineering homes, probably a large majority of them, whether they are on state land, whether they are on agricultural land, today would not exist if they were not a mountaineer and if not for all the people who volunteer work, often keep the forest and from the fires on which the mountain homes are located, which had to be built there for simple safety reasons, regardless of whether it is state property or any property in the area of our mountains. I also commend this 60-day agreement on the implementation of projects that will be funded by the EU, with regard to the availability of state-owned assets, and certainly here is the introduction of this exception, if it is the same, that is, some parts of that agreement, if it concerns other bodies, I think that good communication should be pursued and somehow encouraged to be 60 days in any case. This is more or less what I would like to stress for this law and I congratulate these municipalities who have spent years on the basis of this land deposit for compensation which will finally make up for it, and I believe that in a short time we will see it both in their appearance and in infrastructure, because one such municipality that gives, let's say, 1, 2% of Croatian tourism in the number of nights, certainly 2, 3 million kn will help to give even more. Also to the Municipality of Gradac, the activation of resorts, i.e., the giving of all preconditions, that as much as 17 properties can be activated, not only contributes to tourism, contributions and security, but also, with us, the children's village of Krvavica, is really a threat to safety and it is a pity that the state property is known for the fact that the rats are coming out of it. I hope we can help make it look that way and put it in place. And if we were a centralized state, that's definitely how it is, if we look at the area of a municipality or a city, 30, 40% of the area falls, wastes on state property, we can't even deny it here, but it's important that we at least try to manage a little bit better because so far it's been managed by none, and in the future it's certainly more decentralisation towards local self-government, the local population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83330	Thank you, too. We don't have any replicas. Mr. Marco Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83331	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will repeat what I said and in the replicas of the minister that the law is certainly a step in the management of state property, but we have and, I will say, a lot of the bad things written in the law itself, but what we are waiting for are effects. This is what has gone through the debate today because we often say we have very good laws in Croatia, but they are not implemented. And this is actually one of the key laws, and here is for a number of local self-government units, of course, and for a state budget that is extremely important and important. What is yet to be read out of it that we have not made the one key step we should have made, which is to make it clear, that is to clearly determine what is of the strategic state interest, and what we can thus express ourselves to the units of local self-government, the units of the regional self-government, because once again, even though the minister has said before that I agree that there are certainly municipalities and cities that do not manage in the right way, but there are also many very good examples where, when something has been given to them in their possession, they have brought this purpose and have shown that they know how to manage it and that it can really benefit the whole community. We are, of course, limited by good work and broken land books, that is also one problem, it is not, of course, the subject of this law, but it must always be mentioned in this debate. But I would like, given that this is an individual debate, to comment on several articles. I also have a few corrections, so maybe the minister will answer me about it. The first is Article 8, this is already mentioned here on several occasions, so it is that units of local self-government prior to the adoption of spatial plans are obliged to notify the Ministry of State Property, I believe that this process of drawing up a spatial plan is actually prescribed by a special regulation and that it is not appropriate at all by this law to edit this matter. The second thing in Article 12(4) is clear, I think it is those obligations that legal persons have to submit to the ministry, that these data are not publicly published. I believe that the Law on the right to access information actually provides access to that information and should be encouraged, I believe that we can all agree here, one proactive publication of data. Further to Article 20(2), if we have a State Property Management Plan involving other bodies, then it is necessary to oblige other bodies to participate in the preparation of the report, so you have stated here that they can participate. Next you have, it's probably a technical error in Article 26(2), it's about the composition of the Centre's administrative council, where it's 9 that needs to be replaced by word 11, because if we count our representatives of the ministry, representatives of the president's office, presidents and representatives of trade unions and employers, then it's a total of 11. What's my point here, I won't say it's not necessary, okay that there may be employers and trade unions, the president's office that's also a little weird, but there are no representatives of the national associations of local authorities, so there are no representatives of the city associations, associations of municipalities, communities, counties, I think at least one representative should have been here. Furthermore, Article 32(1) provides that the sale of shares can be carried out by pushing out minority shareholders on the assumption that this meant the purchase of shares by the majority owner, so the process is not actually controlled by a minority shareholder so that it would not be managed in particular, as well as other forms governing the regulations on commercial societies and the capital market, so it is clear that the State as the owner of the shares participates equally with other natural and legal persons in those processes and that there is no privileged position in this process, so it might be more appropriate to prescribe the power of the ministry or other stakeholders or bodies of the state authority to represent judicial disputes in these processes, in this process. We're still in the articles, here's an observation, so I believe you'll appreciate it. I have seen in articles 41 in articles 69 and in article 60 local and regional, I believe that this should be replaced with local or regional, because your local and regional is the only one in the Croatian city of Zagreb. Here's the thing, that's just an observation, because if we look at it strictly, of course. Further to Article 45(3), those available indents are listed there, and I believe that they should include municipal infrastructure and non-classified, including non-classified roads, which may be the case in the article itself, but I believe that this would certainly be a good classification. And lastly, Article 70(1), I find it a little unclear what the end of the article that says here and what property it has acquired is based on a special regulation. It is therefore possible that the article can therefore be limited to the real estate where the GLS or defacto facility acquired ownership, but no registration has been made, so this could be restrictive in relation to the transfer of that property to units of local self-government. So I believe that all the property owned by the former municipalities has turned into ownership of new local units by that section of the Law on Local Self-Government of '92. However, due to the lack of urgency of courts and legal changes which did not respect this sequence of ownership, part of the property was written by the Republic of Croatia or transferred to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, or we are still having litigation over it. So let us try to break these really numerous court disputes and all the property used for the Constitution of prescribed local character affairs, so for social, educational, educational, health, environmental protection, sports, etc. Leave it to the local units. So I think it's enough just to delete this item or maybe expand it because I don't see it in the item to expand to kindergartens and real estate, mostly land, means the properties in which the infrastructure is laid. Here's a few of my remarks that I believe you can appreciate and I believe they're in place. What I want, of course, is for the law, once again, to get the effects of finally putting state property in one real place so that it begins to benefit, primarily from citizens living in any part of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, these problems are bigger somewhere, especially in the coastal area where we have numerous abandoned working resorts, hotels, etc. in the north something less. I mentioned earlier that I came from Krapina-Zagorje County, I mentioned the problem of these Kumrovek dead capitals, I hope that this law will really contribute to them coming back to benefit the residents who live in those parts, and not that we are burdened about it with some ideological stories from history because I don't think anyone needs it. We should watch how we will develop and open new places together and, of course, ensure that people remain alive in all parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83332	Thank you, Mr. Veligaj. Now it's Mr. Sasa Djujic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83333	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. As this government manages state property, I want to make an example out of my local community. So it's about the Hotel company "Adriatica" Crikvenica. It is the largest tourist company in Crikvenica, a company numbering 9 hotels, 2 autocamps and employs a large number of people, not only in the season but also in winter. Now this company has been systematically destroyed in the last 25 years by HDZ governments, HDZ personnel in the company, the company is experiencing the lowest levels and automatically destroying the entire cicvenic destination to the destination of two stars, so everything around that company is going down. The result of all these activities of the former governments in the company is that in 2010 after a series of affairs, after workers on the streets, after the Adriatic business is a case and is recognised in public only as a case, the company is experiencing a final failure and ends in bankruptcy in 2010. After a successful bankruptcy, I must say here and also help the former Milanovic government, the company exits bankruptcy in 2014, it is named new administration, the company starts working at rest, pays its salaries neatly, pays its suppliers. Through the bankruptcy process, the state takes more than 70% of the shares and becomes the majority owner of the company, the first investments are in motion. For the first time in 30 years, any investment is being made in the company, so it moves to rebuild four hotels that were without any categorization until then so they didn't have one, two stars, all of them lost because of their failure for years. These hotels start to slowly rise to 4 stars, the Adriatic breathes full lungs, becomes a desirable employer, workers want to work there, want permanent employment, believers no longer exist so everyone wants to work with the Adriatic, come successful companies etc. In 2016, Jadran moved into the privatisation process, the first preparations were made and the arrival of this government and the Ministry of Property finally started the process. During the process after the public tender, one binding offer joined by pension funds, PBZ and Erste Plavoga on 200 million kunas and plus 200 million kunas of the company's recapitalisation through investment, but what happens? During this period, the technical process of privatising the company to the previous administration of 17.2. of this year stands out. The government is unprepared, does not appoint a new administration the same second, or the same day that the administration stands out, of course the former administration was appointed by the SDP government and it is not at all controversial that the new government puts a new administration and maybe puts some people out of trust with it, but conflicts within the HDZ, the mayor of the town of Crikvenica, along with a certain minister, leads to the fact that the company has been without any administration for several days, without management, without a responsible person, without anything. Finally, a certain agreement is reached at HDZ level and six, seven days after the term of office is expired, a new administration is appointed. Now what's the big deal? It is disputed that the company is practically sold, that the technical process of selling the company is carried out. So we have a binding offer, we have a state that accepts it, and de facto in a month new owners will come into possession of that company. But what does the government do? The government appoints a new administration of two members, comes the director from Dubrovnik who takes over the management of the company, who, for me, is also a disgrace to the HDZ of the Primorje-Gorski County, that there is no man in HDZ in the entire Primorje-Gorski County who is able to run such a hotel company rather than run it from Dubrovnik. That's the first one. Secondly, this administration receives a 4-year contract even though the company is practically sold. There is information in the public that they have been contracted with a management contract with huge severance, which is confirmed by the chairman himself in the media. Practically, by the end of the sale, that administration was to run the company as a technical government. So, without creating any new obligations, without borrowing the company, etc. But the new administration is coming, what's it doing? There are, I don't know, six profit centers, six directors, they raise it to 12, they replace people, they bring new directors, they give them new contracts for four years, they create certain financial commitments, and they practically act like they're going to stay there all the time. Later, it's finally going to be sold. The government accepts this, the government sells the company, signs a contract and pension funds eventually take over the company, although due to all of this, due to new commitments, due to the creation of what the administration was doing there, the sale itself has been at stake. Almost people gave up in the finals themselves. The last day of the deadline was signed by the funds and the Ministry. At a press conference of ministers, you were asked about the situation in the Adriatic media, you said at the time that you had nothing to do with it and on the information that I have, you had nothing to do with it but have your colleagues from the Ministry of Tourism and people from the HDZ of the Primorje-Gorski County. Now, with that knowledge that I have, and you don't know now, if you want to tell me or don't tell me, I'm asking myself who runs the state property, and then what will the ministry do if the state property is managed in the offices of the mayor of HDZ cities under pressure that they will leave HDZ if they don't say so, etc. So it's irresponsible management. Secondly, when the whole situation arose, the workers rebelled, the unions rebelled, the people in the area rebelled, everyone became concerned about what was going to happen there. The Adriatic overnight becomes a business case again. And the best thing he's talking about is, we were also told to politicize. I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic about the situation in the Adriatic. Let's just say, I'll just give you one detail. I got the answer, I asked how much the new administration cost compared to the old administration? I got the answer, nothing, costs just as much as the old one. Well, for starters, there used to be one member of the board, now there's two. So it's already a double cost. Secondly, it is said later that the contract was concluded with the president of the administration still active by the government in the sale's very finality, that the contract and two annexes of the contract were signed on the same day. You deny me if that's not true, I've got such information. That they were changing there, that there was something weird about those contracts. So there's severance, so there's no severance, and then under public pressure, he begs him to leave the company, he says I won't do it. And finally, what do we have now? In 22.5., we have a congregation of society called by the new owners who proposed the resolution of the administration that the government appointed in the end. And for what? So, here I have a proposal for a assembly that needs to be resolved by this management president, I won't name him because it's not correct, but by his actions, the gentleman has caused impatience between himself and part of the management staff of the society, and part of the employees of the society. The good leadership skills that the chairman of the administration must have are also reflected in the establishment of coherent human relations. This behaviour also affected the reputation of society, including publications in the press, the publication of the trade unions of Kvarner, Istria and Dalmatia, the correspondence and other communication which the employees of the company and the organisations to which the employees of the company belonged, and which concerned the rights of the employees of the company to the applicants. All this has caused damage to society and public reputation with the potential for significant financial damage, and in such circumstances new owners propose a resolution of that administration. Now, the question arises as to how this government manages the property when such people are appointed in the way they are appointed and how we can now trust that in the future they will be something different. Here, that's what I wanted to say publicly in this debate. In the end, fortunately, the privatisation was carried out. Yet the states and these governments are no longer in the company and we hope that it will continue to develop as it has started when in these next period this damage, which has been done in the last three months, and that in the future, however, Jadran Crikvenica will rise its entire, composition of all of its hotels to the level to which it should be raised and that the final Crikvenica-winodol region will become a 4 star destination again. Here, I'd like the ministers, only clean if you can answer some of these questions that I've asked, to give your opinion ultimately on the whole case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83334	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ante Babic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83335	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So all day long and this debate could actually be heard by me maybe more of the improvements that occurred between the first and second readings and I see that the vast majority of colleagues praised these improvements which I consider to be very good. By informing the Ministry of State Assets, it was actually immediately launched a year ago by a new Law on State Property Management and how much I know and how much to be monitored in this year with all that public and professional and academic and interested public, primarily with units of local administration and self-government and all those who could actually participate in this Act were involved in the adoption of this Law in the first reading. in the first reading of the law, you could actually hear suggestions by me more from individual units of local administration and self-government how and how certain things should be dealt with, i.e. to correct certain articles of the law in order to make this law more effective in its implementation, actually more effective in managing state property. The law passed the parliamentary procedure during the second reading, the Assembly bodies discussed this, as far as I know, and there was one thematic session where actually once again the views could be agreed upon, or certain things that are lifelike could be corrected, with which the mayors and mayors actually meet, first of all, I am talking about them. Now, what, which, less perhaps here today, I will perhaps mention briefly, ask what it is actually a state, which is, is whether a state as an organised social community under some political system can also be unitary, could be federal, according to our Constitution Croatia is a federal state and is divided into executive, legislative and judicial power, and through this executive power is actually divided into municipalities, cities and counties. Why am I saying that? Still, and even today when local administration and self-government heads meet with individual investors, then we know it's municipal, this is urban, this is county, and in fact it's all state, it's state, so nothing else is what is in the municipality, county or state. Then there are certain gaps, i.e. administrative and bureaucratic obstacles, and some cases are actually being led for years, and we like to compare ourselves here to our nearest neighborhood, mostly with Austria and Germany and often talk when we visit these countries as they are arranged, how is their agricultural land arranged, tourist land, monumental heritage, façades, roads, cycling trails, forest roads and how is it possible? And I'll tell you. These countries are in fact all of their power draws from the units of local administration and self-government, are federal states, but in fact, through the decentralisation that they did, and then they did what counterpart Pranjic was saying, they were primarily doing this functional decentralisation, so small municipalities, large municipalities and cities, and then they were doing a fiscal decentralisation where the state actually passed it all on to the units of local administrations and self-governments, cities and municipalities, and the state is actually controlling, so in that case, the state is the controller. And it's actually one way that we should finally go, and this law is actually, with this law we're on the right track. They actually have far fewer administrative and bureaucratic barriers. The current law has been at a level far below what the state must seek, and therefore this bill, namely the final proposal of this law, is definitely one big step and today we have listened to how well it will bring municipalities and cities, or how much it will reduce a certain administration, or how much it will increase investment and more efficient and efficient management of state property. That's good, that's what I was saying in my first reading, that the ministry corrected this article in 68th, but I also think that maybe it didn't take care that most of the cities and municipalities had problems with the land that was in the '90s. and '91. the years were within the boundaries of the construction area, which we consider to be owned by a municipality or city, and now this is in one different, in different ways interpreted and there are actually certain lawsuits related to this land. What I would like to stress here in this debate is to touch the little European Charter of Local Administration and Self-Government, which is very important to me, especially because of this principle of subsidiarity, so that the problem is solved where it came from and that those municipalities and cities in my area can actually manage state property far better than the central part of the state. Why am I saying that? Both the mayors and the mayors were elected directly, i.e. their representative bodies and I think that these representative bodies in their area know much better about the problem, and they meet each day and in their strategic plans, the spatial planning documents actually discuss it without the state serving them as a braker. I come from one area that is very migration and in this whole one belt, say from Konaval almost to the city of Knin you have one piece along the border with Bosnia and Herzegovina almost uninhabited or people are emigrated. For example, two municipalities in my environment have 220 square kilometers and at that 220 square kilometers, any returnee from abroad we can't give a single square centimetre, which he wants to buy of course, and if he wants to, then he goes into that regular procedure that takes months to get land to build a residential building. So it's a way that municipalities and cities would solve far better. I believe, after the adoption of this law that many things will be resolved, the minister spoke of it in his opening statement by mentioning all that state property, the prospect of state property, and I agree with everything he said, but I would like to say that it was discussed that the property that is not strategically significant to the Republic of Croatia could be transferred to local administration and self-government units. It is true that this final bill says that since 2017 all units of local administrations and self-government for all those properties that were on 1.1.2017 will become owners, and it is built on schools of health homes and other institutions that are the founders of the unit of local administration and self-government. Even more important in the end, I will repeat what we said in the first reading that perhaps more listeners to things coming from the field of units of regional and regional self-government, precisely because of this efficiency, because of the possibility of attracting investments, far faster and more efficiently, about which Mr. Klaric has elaborated very well, and something on behalf of Mrs. Mr. Dark Taritash's club is saying, and I think that this should be an intensity for us all. And if there is a political will, and that part could be resolved, and this is an unsettled cataster, grants, i.e. unrecorded state property. If we succeed, and I believe both Mr. Marić and this whole team, that in this four-year, or three-year period, we can be on track, do so, and that this part of the unsettled cadastre and grantovnica and the unregistered state property could be solved in a much better and more useful way and that we would then avoid all those things that, as a society, as leaders of the unit of local administration and self-government, we meet. And that it might come down to the least possible measure. I certainly welcome the adoption of this law. I'm glad there have been some improvements in the two readings, and I think we'll agree to it unanimously on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83336	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, the first line has Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83337	... State Secretary, fellow MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] I am very glad that you mentioned this perception, the relationship between the state, the local self-government, in the sense that they should not be perceived as something separate and state property, when it is left to local self-government, as something that the state gives to someone else. On the threshold of this, the EU rules in state aid, in the EU, prescribed by European Treaties, apply equally to both the central state and local self-government. For example, if some units of local self-government give some land or leave some land to a private person, for an entrepreneurial zone or something like that, these rules are, in fact, attributed to the state, as if it were given by the central state. So I think that if the EU does not make that difference, especially in this property sense and in a legal sense, there is no reason for us to set up some kind of artificial distinction that does not exist there. And I am glad that you mentioned the principle of subsidiarity, because they are also one of the foundations and rights of the EU, indeed what we need to strive for, that local problems are solved at local level wherever possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83338	Thank you, Mr. Sokol, answer, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83339	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here you are, dear Mr. Falcon, not only today, but before, speaking about this law, and also participating in certain working meetings, you were missing today at this debate, I know you've been busy. Well, this part, for example, that you're talking about today, no one mentioned it, but I think it's a good thing you mentioned it. What I'm saying is, politically speaking, we're a team of subsidiarity principles, we're actually allowing units of local self-government to participate maximum in their development, and in this case, they're not being held back from the state or ministry level. I'm so looking at this law now compared to this current law. So, to make maximum flexibility, to make it as effective as possible and in that sense here, I welcome your replica, thank you for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83340	Thank you, too. The second line has Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83341	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Babić, here I am pleased that someone from HDZ mentions the right decentralisation, because HSS has been talking for a while longer about the real decentralisation that should be implemented in the Republic of Croatia, where powers should be put down, but also financial resources to lower levels, so that these resources that are standing can be managed more easily, and probably they would have come far faster into the whole story of usefulness and management and would have failed less than they do today. Now, unfortunately, you are lonely in HDZ in this example, to realize that you need the right decentralisation in the Republic of Croatia, normally, under the control of the state, what units of local self-government are doing. You also mentioned to Austria how they did well, how they are a good example, but I must say why, not honoring the exceptions to HDZ, but in Austria there is no HDZ and these affairs of Agrokor, and I don't know what, so it's easier for them to do this than here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83342	Thank you, too, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83343	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lenart, you may have wanted to be funny in the end, but it wasn't funny to me. There is no comparison between Croatia and Austria, all that we have now experienced in these 20 years is not Austria in its 100 years, but the fact that Austria has the best unit system of local administration and self-government. When I was talking about decentralisation, we often think about this fiscal decentralisation, give as much money as possible, leave it to municipalities and cities. You have municipalities and cities that don't know how to manage that much money because they don't have the capacity. So it's primarily to do functional decentralisation, what they've done, believe me, that's the way, so functional decentralisation, that part to determine, and then only, after that, fiscal decentralisation and then the municipalities and cities, especially small municipalities and cities, will be far more efficient and efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83344	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Slaven Dobrović, will have his individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83345	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The management of the property, which is the main task of this law, definitely has a huge space for progress in our dear Republic because we could hear today that the bad lords of their own estate in the Republic of Croatia, I mean the state property, as even luxuriant objects along the sea have made little profits for years and small contributions to the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And I believe that this law is a good start for this problem to be resolved, or to stop this devastating situation and to move in this segment to create a better, healthier future for Croatia. There have been talks about a central decentralised approach, of course there are a lot of aspects, and I'm going to touch the role of the state here. In any case, at this stage of state property management, a central approach is necessary here. So you can't move into multiple centers with one comprehensive job, so you can write down the property, find it, get into possession definitely has to be from one place. It is clear that later, and we believe that this will be shown in practice, followed by this important segment of decentralised approach to governance or the use of regional or local self-government. Also, the powers of the minister, a million or 7 million kuna, I don't think big things can even be done with small powers and that's not a problem. A much bigger problem is that it is not strong enough to bind responsibility in certain powers. Therefore, I would not have had a problem and that there are greater powers of the minister, but it is responsibility that must start to insist in Croatia and I do not think that this can be a reason for not going into something because it is dangerous to give the minister the authority to manage something in one way or another. In fact, the transparency of the process and the public perception of certain segments, is that the register of state property, is that a list of incomes, a list of contracts that will be created is that which can help the Croatian public be freed in a great deal of fear that the minister is given authority because public insight is high quality and will, of course, show very quickly the good intentions and good work of the minister or body he manages, so that the problem that we obviously have in Croatia will be resolved very quickly. I will now say something further, the law mentions a number of camps, hotels, mountaineering homes and there were talks about mountainous homes, and the minister himself said that recently there was a meeting with the leaders of the Croatian mountaineering alliance and the HGSS, of course that segment of state property should be brought into order. So it's absolutely in the interest of all definitely, but there's one small concern here, so on my side, and so I'm going to say a few words about it now. Namely, camps, hotels, mountaineering homes, so this series suggests that it is objects of similar financial strength to say because the campsite by the sea, of course, a hotel that is somewhere in state property, and then the mountaineering home is obliged to provide certain financial betrayals from the one who manages it. But I would draw attention here to the fact that the mountaineering home cannot or is something that can be commercially cost-effective. So the value of such an object is a completely different nature, and I mentioned the Croatian mountaineering alliance, so it is an association of citizens who have more than 140 years of tradition in Croatia, of course there have been a number of regimes, but the citizens in the Republic of Croatia have been organised in this society, so today it is the Croatian mountaineering alliance in 142 years. And there are mountainous homes that were created at various times, well-known Zavijan, so you've probably heard here about Premužić's trail that might also become state property, so it's a fantastic path that was made during the period I don't know from 1930 to '32. Don't mind me if I missed a year or two, so it's a space that represents an incredible value for the Republic of Croatia, and it's a shame that this beauty is badly visited in the Republic of Croatia, that in summer you can only meet strangers and you should actually bring those objects closer, so now I'm talking about homes and that nature to citizens. So I believe that this meeting that took place at the ministry and the rules that need to be created that will define details about the use and also mountaineering homes will take into account these details, or these specificities, and help to make use of their value, that they still draw closer to the citizens because, of course, there is a standard of hospitality in either the Envyan or some sort of mountain house in Velebit or Dinara can be quite different and it is quite different because there is a glass of water very much. So I think this is a good step to tackle the problem of poor governance of state property all these years and that the rules that will follow will also show good intentions here and that at least this segment of our society, the countries will experience better days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83346	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Ante Pranic's turn, an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83347	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Ministers, the Secretary of State. I will try to repeat again everything that was more important in the presentation on behalf of the bridge club independent lists and through replicas to my colleagues in the assembly. While I am a parliamentary representative and also head of the local self-government unit, I will always advocate both functionally and financially and spatially decentralisation and I am truly sorry to say that we have gambled the opportunity to go through this bill in the sphere of spatial decentralisation. It's hard for me when some people say that someone's given someone something from some level like the locals are looking at us as some foreign body, and we're all citizens of the same state. I personally believe that unresolved property relations in Croatia are the biggest brakes to economic development and these unresolved property relations also relate to the relationship between the units of local self-government and the state of Croatia and citizens and entrepreneurs and farmers. I still think that the right solution for all the resolution of property relations would be much better if the Republic of Croatia had owned the building area all that was covered up to 25.7.91. That is, when the Law on Agricultural Land entered into force which clearly distinguished everything outside the construction line of the settlement, it belonged to the ownership of the Republic of Croatia of all that was inside belonged to the units of local self-government. I think that such a relationship would solve many problems, so here and specifically we had the last legalisation processes where people went into the solutions of the state of play, but they didn't go into the process of forming building plots and many of them were building objects on particles that were owned, but owned by the Croatian authorities. I am now interested in the basis of this law obviously these people will have to buy their grandfathers or they will have to prove property again by entering court disputes with the Republic of Croatia. That, by any chance, everything was left to the construction lines until '91. cities and municipalities, these are the mahogany centers of cities, settlements and villages of the representative bodies of cities and municipalities of Kudikamo would be easier to solve this problem. Furthermore, I will point to another fact, and this is what it refers to as the Ministry of State Property manages the property of this law where it is planned to build a golf hotel, a hotel complex, camps and other sports recreation facilities, and we know that they are defined precisely by the spatial plans of cities and municipalities. And now I really don't understand the intensity of, say, the city's representative body bringing in a spatial plan that must be in line with the higher order plan and defining a particular area and a single investor comes in and let's say it's owned by the Republic of Croatia, or you manage this law with that area. The investor buys, starts to build, but in order to run anything at all, the local self-government unit has to build a basic infrastructure to the area. This infrastructure also refers to unclassified roads and to a system of draining, precipitation sewers, DTK of all that is needed for future investors to obtain a useful permit. But the question arises why should the local self - government build it? Yes, we're going to make a communal contribution, but in many ways, there's a communal contribution in local self-government units that's not even 6.7 kuna per metre cubic. So, I don't really know here every time I come to Zagreb to pass from Vrgorec, Dalmatino in this area, I don't see a camp settlement, I don't see a golf course either, and I still think it'll be impossible to build it if it stays this way or if the units of local self-government don't leave certain income from the sale of real estate or land itself. I will also focus on another problem that I believe may not be clearly defined, that is, in Article 41, which states that "the property can be directly available... in a sign of the established decision on the availability in accordance with Article 37 of this Act, if it is the person who, in the process of legalising an illegally constructed facility from the competent authority, came up with a decision on the condition of execution and built on the property owned by the Republic of Croatia and the property concerned, was determined to cover the building particle. That person may be sold the land if it has been identified as covering the building particles’. Now imagine that a certain man built a house 100 meters from the sea and got a solution to the state of play, how much can he form a building particle? It can be formed in accordance with the existing decisions of the city's spatial plan and the municipality. Now imagine that a single maximum limit is in the spatial plan of 4,000 squares. So a man with a 100-square house can still get 4000 squares from the state 100m from the sea. So I don't think it's precise here, and I think it would be very good if it were precise that it could form, but minimally how much it requires the city's spatial plan and the community where that property is built. The law itself, as I said in the club's statement on behalf of the club, is a good intensity to introduce a certain order, but I think we've missed this very main thread, which is decentralisation and abandoning greater decision-making to local self-government units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83348	Thank you, too. The Republic has Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83349	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, we have a lot of problems, you've only detected one set from the perspective of local self-government units, but the fact is that the state doesn't know what it has. So we have a lot of properties owned by the Republic of Croatia that are not, that are not used, that are literally failing. I am absolutely for the units of local self-government to be there for greater autonomy because I think it will be more efficient to use the properties owned by the Republic of Croatia, which are, for example, abandoned or long not used. You are, however, not only you, but many colleagues are the leaders of local self-government that can be much faster, more efficient to find users for such properties. In this direction we should move, so first we should list what we have, and then what we want to do with it, and those units of local self-government can and should be partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83350	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Pranic. You picked it up, didn't you? No, well, you didn't lift. I thought so. Now we have Mr. Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83351	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues, distinguished ministers with State Secretarys and Associates, I welcome you all together. And here's to the State Property Management Act, I can say that we should certainly all have this law because it's not just government and ministers' property, but all of us and all of us need tools to manage it in quality, the fact that it hasn't been well managed so far, and that order has to be done, everyone has agreed so far. What we all certainly want not to be a dead letter on paper, but to be a tool and to be implemented and what is much more important, which we all expect to implement equally, that everyone has the same chance, because from this experience so far, where here is how the minister said in the introduction over 3,000 unsolved items that have submitted requests and units of local self-government and other legal entities, where the processes lasted from 3 to 5 years, indicates that some have been resolved faster, some slower, depending on who was closer to the authorities. We expect that this law and the models of action in the coming period will not be like this, but that everyone will have the same chance and that units of local self-government, together with the ministry, will take this one step forward to put this state property into a function of developing the economy and filling the budget that you have pointed out at the outset. I am pleased that you have predicted that the revenues in the state budget will increase to about a billion and 400 million kuna, and what we certainly expect you to participate in that part when it comes to the state of the grantine and the cadastre. We had nice examples, including in Brod-Posavina County where certain municipalities with the State Geodetic Administration and County co-financed the state-of-the-art. I don't know why you care, so here, I urge you to hold talks with the Director of the State Geodetic Administration, the Resort Ministry and to restart the procedure because it is in the interest of the local self-government and the ministry and the general state and that a quality property register is finally made to manage it better. I volunteered for an individual debate to repeat what I said in the replica that I can't imagine that 873 business spaces were used in Croatia and did not pay rent or rent, and that somewhere over 60 million kunas were totally sued in court proceedings. So I'm asking you that you were an entrepreneur or a craftsman and that you had state space and didn't pay rent, or rent, if you had an advantage over your colleague, who unfortunately because the crisis was and there was no job, eventually had to close the crafts and give up production, fired the workers. This must not happen, they should answer, not only those who used state space and did not pay rent, but also those who made it possible for them to do so, because it is visible, it wouldn't have taken so long to collect so much money that there wasn't a set of tracks, and here I am sorry that it can't be published by that register of those who owe, but it is necessary to see the possibility to put in bar initiatives, so they will know who went around the state, who cheated on themselves and neighbors and fellow craftsmen, because it's not fair that someone has to end up at the Employment Office, while others have bought cars and apartments and so on, and we have such examples, and we certainly need to point that out. Think again about that proposal that I said together with the Ministry of Economy for Areas of Safe Aid and Demographic Reconstruction and prevent emigration, such as Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem, Podravina, Lika and other Undeveloped Areas, that these state-owned locals, areas of business, because I believe that the competitions will not be very interested in them, if they are not interested in these passive spaces, that we call them so conditionally, that there is then a more favourable variant for craftsmen and entrepreneurs to encourage employment and development in these areas, this should be one of the projects that this government will make and will certainly be useful for everyone. I would also point out the problem with apartments, when it comes to protected tenants, we know how many storms have caused both here in the assembly and in the public, and one of the questions, is there a possibility that through the state dwellings of those protected tenants who are unable to resolve their housing issue to find opportunities from the state housing fund? Regarding the support of the economy, certainly that state property can be an important part in the development of the economy and employment, so here is one of the quality examples is certainly an industrial zone in Novi Gradiška where a large number of entrepreneurs built their business facilities, here is a contract signed a few days ago with air conditioning equipment to buy another particle and there is an objective need of the town of Nova Gradiška due to the expansion of the zone for an additional 60 hectares. I think the request has been sent and I ask you to consider and that as soon as possible the city of Nova Gradiška, but of course also Slavonski Brod, Županja and Vinkovci, wherever the need arises where there is an investor, where there is an entrepreneur to go in the direction of expanding business zones. I also ask you to try to answer me, we have a problem in Nova Gradišca with the building of the House of Health, which is in that process so far has not solved the property itself. An application was submitted for the return of the seized property under that Restitution Act. The nuns, the nurses of the charity are ready to replace the property, whether there is an opportunity to resolve it in this way, and to keep the building for use and the equipment to continue to deal with medical activities, and that the rightful owner, or the claimant, is to make peace from state property to another area. I think that would be helpful again and to prevent the devastation of the health system in Brod-Posavina County and the town of Nova Gradiška and of course, I am interested in putting into office and military facilities, those that are inoperable to the Ministry of Defence, one of these examples is military in Novi Gradiška and I know that the consent of most state bodies has been collected, expected these days and signed contracts. So here, I appeal that as soon as the city can get into the renovation of that building because now it's become dangerous for the citizens who pass by the building, it's a log, it's a facade, someone's going to get hurt, and then who's going to answer? Here, appeal to speed it up and get rid of it as soon as possible. And of course, here's this proposal that HSS made regarding your powers, Mr. Minister, for assets of up to 7.5 million kuna, that, after two competitions under the assessment of the court witch, if no one calls, you make a deal with a potentially interested direct settlement. For your sake, to protect you, we suggest that you make it public and transparent, that you go public auction, especially if you have permits because it does not stand in the law and that you can make a deal below the estimated price of a court expert. It's not in the law. If you may, then go to public bidding in particular. Say, here's the real estate going to auction, person A is offering 100, so he's offering 101? If no one offers 101, then make a deal with the one who offers 100. It's because of you, and I'm sure that's where we're helping you, so accept the HSS proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83352	Thank you, too. Mr. Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83353	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Vlaovic, I wish we had a lot of economic zones like Nova Gradiška. Unfortunately, we don't. Unfortunately, some of your economic zones, and you know it very well in Slavonia, grow into weeds, there are no users at all, there is no interest at all, and we have invested a lot of state money, here I speak primarily of taxpayers' money in infrastructure equipment of these same economic zones. So, I absolutely agree with you and I appeal to the minister here. We should promote and encourage such positive measures. So, counterpart Grgic, Mayor of Nova Gradiška, does a very good job. So we've seen in the past years, there's been more factories opening up, new ones opening up, new business entities coming up. Such examples should be encouraged both by the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Assets absolutely need to be supported, and where this is not going, try to minimise costs on the side of the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83354	Thank you, Mr. Hajdukovic. Answer. Here you go, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83355	... Someone shut me out. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Thanks for the line. Positive examples should be highlighted. That is why I pointed out that there is a real need because it is spoken with several other potential investors for these additional 60 hectares in the city of Nova Gradiška and the spatial plan and the city of Nova Gradiška and Brod-Posavina County, and I must mention, in parallel, that the project of the waste management centre near Nova Gradiška na... where a particle is also provided for the construction of this centre on state land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The procedure has unfortunately lasted a long time because of the adoption of a new waste management plan and is now just approaching a feasibility study, an environmental impact study so as not to waste time after applying for a local permit goes with a land application. We're gonna lose another two or three years, I think we should sit there and find models to speed it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83356	Thank you, too. Second replica, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83357	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Vlaovic, you have opened a very important topic. So, there's no controversial transfer here... within the general state between the state and units of local and regional self-government, and it does not even have to be controversial what we have experienced throughout history as a series of non-transparent procedures where state ownership is transformed into private. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I'm worried about and what has become of this society is that the state can't be a good master. The ownership of state-owned property should be treated as well as private property, and therefore the administration and setting up of administration is crucial throughout this story. What I would like, so I told the Minister today and that the Law is soft, I would like to, and I appreciate it as a very honest man, that he can veto as Minister of State property on all those procedures of appointing administration that don't do good work of his own. That can say, hold on a second, it can't go on like this. We don't actually have the right balance, and that's the key to the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83358	Answer, Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83359	Thank you, Vice President. I've already said that it's inadmissible for someone to use state property without paying the rent, and it's particularly unacceptable for someone to privatize it and that someone who knew it was looking through their finger. This must not happen because as you said, state property is not something supernatural. This is the value that we all created together, which all taxpayers built together through payments and municipal infrastructure and facilities and everything else, and as such we must behave equally at least to a good master both us and the leaders of the units of local self-government and the Ministry. So far, we have seen a series of examples that this was not the case, and here is the final example from the municipality of Sibinj where the economic zone was treated illegally, so it ended with a court procedure. And who suffers? suffers the economics, here is Mr. Chepo built the facility, 200 people would hire, the municipality doesn't invest anything in the zone because he is in court proceedings and simply in a stalemate position are both the owner and the county and the municipalities and the city, and they suffer and people have no place to work and move out of Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83360	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Goran Maric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83361	Thank you, Vice President. Right from the end. Mr. Vlaovicu, Your Honor, we have now checked, it is necessary to establish supervision for the expansion of your industrial zone, we need to appoint 2 members and will immediately be appointed and supervision is carried out in accordance with the regulations and we will give consent, so there is no problem. I've been a little encouraged to look at this one finding right now, I've heard, I don't know where, that maybe the ministry is acting differently depending on who's in power in cities and municipalities. If anyone has any possible evidence that I, as a minister, have a discriminatory relationship with any mayor or chief of staff, I will step down immediately. And I would pray that we don't play with unserious qualifications because it's a very serious issue. So I thank all of you who participated in this, one of the most important topics for the Republic of Croatia, which you have contributed to making the legal framework as high as possible, and what has bounced a little bit, but to a reasonable extent, by respecting the space in which it is being discussed, I also accept it as a normal communication. Jadran Crikvenica, a representative of Đujic presented the history of the Adriatic Crikvenica. Unlike you, I'm going to confirm a lot of what you've been saying, but I just don't want to share in management periods and who was in charge of the Adriatic at what time. It's a '90s sailboat. To this day, he cannot be proud of the way in which he manages, not the administration, not the board of directors, not the congregation. What did the State Department do? It has made a historic step in Croatia, which will be a historic event for the town of Crikvenica that in a city like Crikvenica with 15k000 maybe people, I'm not sure how much, through privatisation secured investment at least worth 400 million kuna and more. And that in the budget of that portfolio is a destroyed village of 200 million kuna for which not even a little larger hotel complexes than the Adriatic and that the tender was so public, transparent, announced in all the media and that only one offer arrived, it shows how good the job was done. If the price had been just a little higher, no one would have made an offer, if the price had been lower, and we don't, the ministry, but the court experts, then there would have been more bidders, and maybe this price would have been achieved as much as possible. The Ministry of State Property and I are doing everything by law and we can't do it, as well as here colleague Vlaovic might want, if he didn't report to the first competition and then to the second, but that directly we can't do it, unfortunately, the law is different, which would only be here in Parliament, but also in public if we suggested that after the 2 failed contest, the minister would decide at what price he would sell, so I couldn't even get out of the Assembly, let alone walk into the city, I don't want to, neither can work, nor can work. But we've got a huge job to do, so I'm back to the Adriatic Crikvenica for a little while. The ministry did not participate in anything, not as a minister myself, but no one from the ministry participated negatively in the state of Jadran Crikvenica, on the contrary, when pressures were made not to make the sale and to continue with the same way that functioned in 28 years, in the board of directors... No, I suggested we accept that offer because I'm not sure we'd ever have that offer again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, the Makarska hotels were sold for 172 million kuna and an investment secured in the amount of 618 million kuna. 2 cities of 15 000 investments, a billion kuna and 400 million kunas in the budget. This modern young history of Croatia did not remember such a way of privatisation and so does the ministry and so will the ministry. If this were the way the hotel was sold, only hotel companies wouldn't have had affairs like Sunny Hvar, Halud, Liburnia and similar, and no New Vinodolski seems to me, you remember the hotel there as well. There wouldn't be that. And the RH debt would be much smaller. He's waiting for us, I said, a big job. You're surprised, I'm no longer surprised because I'm deeply immersed in this, so I'm getting simpler, more casual information every day. It is, of course, surprising when I said this morning how illegal business spaces are, how many out of 1325 demands have not been moved out yet, counterpart Vlaovic in this period. But here for a little while longer, in co-ownership of the Republic of Croatia there are 808 business spaces, 28 years from that co-ownership did not give in to the lack of interest. That's 18,000 square meters, estimated to be 150 million kunas in co-ownership. This Law allows us to capitalise and to enter the state budget. Everything again based on the assessment of the court expert and everything by law. And I'm not afraid to make such decisions because it's the minister's job to make such decisions and I know what decisions are held responsible. But also imagine after 28 years when someone wants to protect it now, and it's used to having your ownership rights in the Republic of Croatia not being 28 years old. In the apartments, we have 649 apartments co-owned. 10700 squares. It's estimated somewhere around 50 million kuna. Just to settle this in the budget is going to be 200 million kuna more. And the Ministry of State's budget was 50 million kuna for last year. I can't help but look back at, even though there were two opinions, someone says that more powers should be given, someone should be abolished. When they were mentioned, I even heard the expression of Pharaoh's authority. The power of democracy to compare with the power of three millenniums before this I think it's very inserious and insecure. What are the Pharaohic powers to decide now to settle this? Is that Pharaoh's authority? Well, the greater authority had one who decided to hold on to it like this. He had authority. Is it the power to call a tender? Is the power to give consent to the lease, and any more serious lease contract that has another government body is greater than a million kuna in 5 years. If it were as some suggest, then the government every day, every session would have 70-100 decisions only regarding state property. But how is it that a director of the agency has more authority to sign than a minister? It's unnatural in the state, and there are as many as you want. The directors of the office, directors, assistants, members of the administration, have more authority than the minister. I think it's a little unserious like that. So I'm no exception to responsible persons or ministers when it comes to powers, but I'm not even impressed by such inconspicuous public impressions because I know the state of state property and I'm willing to take responsibility for it. I wouldn't want to depolmise at all who's better at asset management, local self-government unit or the Ministry of State Property or the Republic of Croatia. I think it would be inconclusive to start this topic at all. Is it not irresponsible to conclude that all municipalities and all cities are equally well or equally poorly organized, equally well or equally mismanage their property. Isn't it inconclusive to conclude that all mayors and mayors are equally educated, equally professional, equally responsible, equally moral, equally experienced, I don't think that's a serious approach. If I want anything, then I want a serious law and a serious approach. When you say that maybe we should transfer everything to local self-government units. So at the center of the city itself or the municipality, on a proposal from a mayor to give it, a decision is made on the donation, the second mayor comes and cancels the decision and returns the property. Then we call the competition, then they call again, don't call the sales tender, still give it to us. We make the donation decision again, but we ask for additional documentation, we wait one year after the Ministry is founded, there is no additional documentation. How many cases were they assigned to local self-government units, but they didn't bring her in after five years, so we had to return her. So, I understand everything, but let's not jump to conclusions. As for legalization and the fear that the Ministry of State Property will donate land of 4,5 thousand square meters to someone, that's what you said, so I have to react, by the sea or somewhere, it's just not true. The units of local self-government shall establish a solution to the state of play, determine land for the necessary use and the Ministry of State Assets shall hire an appraiser, a court expert from a list selected in public procurement, an assessment shall be carried out and may, by the estimated value, purchase that land for the necessary use. Let's not make a panic out of something where there's no room. But here I am trying to watch everything I've written down, to be focused so much as answer everyone. Representative Dobrovic spoke, and indeed when read, it can be concluded, and the Ministry of State Property manages camps, hotels, mountainous homes. It's not the same context. ... It lists itself, and it is clear to everyone that mountaineering homes are not as fiscally generous and commercial as hotels or camps, nor does anyone question it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that we will arrange it, but given the lack of documentation and assistance of the Croatian mountaineering alliance, that we will arrange the entries and are not the relationship at the commercial level, and that is what the court experts also know. They determine this, does not specify the minister's value of the hotel and how much the rent is in the mountain house, if he deals with hotel tourist activity or something else. Given the circumstances and the current time in which we operate, we act, I must express my satisfaction, with the ambience in which we discussed in this law, thanks to all of you once again for participating, especially in you, for staying until the end. All amendments have been received, all amendments will be considered and if one is not accepted, there will indeed be a valid reason on the part of the Ministry and Government. And note, one for the end, one law cannot do miracles, so neither this law will do miracles. No law, nor this Law on State Property Management, is a spaceship that can transfer Croatia to another galaxy, it cannot. It depends and effectively... the law primarily to those who implement it, but to the efficiency and other legal provisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the efficiency of other institutions. We can't affect the state of the land books, but I publicly express my dissatisfaction with the land books since '90. To this day. And I said a little while ago, the only thing we can be proud of is the condition that Austro-Hungarian left behind. And it can be arranged, but I wouldn't want to, I've never gotten into a sadr area, there's an expert here on the area, but once, a little, clearer action and a legal provision, it's very easy to fix it, taking into account all the experiences, the negative that come out of that state. ... The Department of State Property, you see that we are still under the pressure of the former system and severe failures in the past tense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm not saying it for the sake of justification, but to know the complexity, that we know the need of this law, the need to pass a law like this, because he's going out to meet it can say it to everyone, and even to those who are a little bit more critical of looking at the meeting of the local and regional self-government units, to meet people who live with that property, to whom the Ministry of State Property refers, to real life. And most importantly, this law does not project damage, but designs the activation of state property, increasing economic activity and increasing the image into the state budget, and what is important is the impact on employment and what is most important, what is here, we do not have colleagues Šipić, he has encouraged to enter, yet this Ministry of State Property, to have direct units of local self-government for housing and housing. So we built it in, so it's going to be an additional demographic impulse. We're not satisfied with the state of the Department of State Property with assets, but we recognize potential and I have faith, I have hope, and I'm pleased to see how much that potential can result. Even if we were to add, what many countries have been using for a long time, and they are applying a long time ago established fact that they are happy with those countries where everyone is doing a job for which they have been educated. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83362	Thank you, Mr. Minister. You'll have a little more work to do, because we have seven replicas. The first replica comes from Mr. Mladen Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83363	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. As the longtime head of the local self-government unit since 2001-2016, we know that the formation of this ministry, that it was a privatisation fund, then moved to the central state property management office, then to DUUDI and finally to the Ministry of State Property. Of course, during that period, we had some requests that we had made to the former privatisation fund and we were aware that we had waited 4 years and 5 years, unfortunately, but I must also commend, that by forming this ministry, it was resolved, what was required within 30 days. Here, I must commend this way and this law, clearly that one law cannot solve everything, but at the same time, I like to respond to the request of the unit of local self-government as soon as possible, that units of local self-government can handle state property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83364	Time. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83365	Thank you very much and thank you very much. And in the future, the ministry will react in time, but please also, that all the leaders of the local self-government unit are also responding to our memo. We often get an emergency, to beg you, to solve this is urgent, and I understand it's urgent, but then it turns out that we wrote a memo to deliver documentation that is not answered. There are such, so it's somewhere in the middle, however, the Ministry of State Property's orientation is to co-operate with local self-government units. We've set up a unit service, relations with local self-government units, and once a person worked, more today, and I hope by the end of the year that they'll work even more because we're going to transfer some people because we recognize that's a burning problem. We even sent a letter to all the mayors, to the commissioners to deliver their priorities because it is impossible to solve all the cases at once, but what are the priorities you set out, we will address these priorities in your order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83366	Thank you very much. The second is the replica of Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, I absolutely welcome the fact that you said that if we come to any evidence that you prefer one unit of local self-government to others that you are willing to be held accountable. If it comes to knowing me or any of the other agents, I expect you to do the same. I agree that you have a big job ahead of you, but I don't agree with anything else when you say we should make a flat-rate decision, or a flat-rate assessment to local self-government units. Look, just across the street from me in the building in Zagreb where I live, half your apartments are empty, so the lights never turn on. To my question why the building in the center of Zagreb is empty, because these are city dwellings that are not used. It's bad, it has to be a function of urban development, of local community development. I know you as a ministry have no jurisdiction over the property of a local self-government unit, but you must promote efficiency in the availability of property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83368	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83369	Thank you very much. Representative Hajdukovic said the apartments are city-owned and empty. Then it's a question for the mayor or the mayor, not for the minister of state property. The apartment owned by the city has as much to do with the State Department as your personal apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83370	Thank you, too. Mr. Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83371	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, as far as the Adriatic of Crikvenica is concerned, everything you've said here from the pay phone, I agree with you, and I haven't given you any objection to the privatisation process or to everything that's been going on, so all this stuff you've said is standing, and I support it. But I guess the former administration that was appointed by the former government helped a little bit to privatize and she prepared that privatisation with your ministry, and then it was replaced in the way it was removed. I'm glad that you're here for the first time, and the mandate has expired so you don't tell me now that they've expired, their mandate has expired, but it could have been a term of office and extended to 15 days, and it didn't have to be, but you've now said that there have been some pressure on you to avoid privatisation, so basically all the information that I have is correct. I'm just curious that if you can answer me how is it even possible that in such a delicate process and the biggest privatisation, as you said at the hotel, such a guff would happen to the government, meaning not the ministry, the government would appoint a administration that almost compromised the whole process? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83372	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83373	Agent Djujic, I need to correct you a little bit, don't be angry. The government didn't appoint a government, and it's not a government. The Board of Supervisors, right. And if you check in the Board of Supervisors' logs, the government's only influence on the board of directors was that the CERP board member was against that decision. So we did everything we had to do, but that did nothing to stop us from doing what needed to be done and did not negatively affect the privatisation of the Adriatic. A model of privatisation, a way, transparency was prepared not by the administration of any Adriatic but only by the CERP and the Ministry of State Property. Because if the administrations had prepared it, it would have ended a little differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83374	Thank you. Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83375	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here you are, Mr. Minister, in your address on behalf of the promoter, giving us a lecture here like we're some kind of Inquisition, so we're suspicious of everything. So look at these 27 years of Croatian state has been done more badly than good on state property and you don't manage our property here, but state property, means peoplely and normally we're suspicious of things and we're trying to point out something that we think might not be right, maybe we're wrong, but that's why you're here to listen to what we're talking about and if you really want to do a good job to do maybe some things that won't like the government, but you think they're good at what you heard in the Croatian Parliament. I'm interested in Petrochemy because I, as an agent when I ask for something from Petrochemy, then I'm referred to the Ministry of State Property and most of the answers are so general that I can't find out anything. It's a shame that I, as Parliament's representative, can't get the information. about the price of gas purchased by Petrochemy. [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Lenart.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83376	Time. Answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83377	Thank you very much, Mr. Lenart. I didn't, and I don't think anyone could get the impression because it wasn't because I didn't, I didn't doctor anyone, I didn't teach anyone in this whole debate today, I never did, not in private, let alone in this political environment. As for the price of gas, the Ministry of State Property can't give you that price because the Ministry of State Property doesn't negotiate or have that price, and it's a business secret, we can't influence a business secret. And as for the implementation of everything that's been said here, that it's useful, good, applied to life, we'll appreciate it, so we've already shown it in the second reading, so we'll show it through the amendments that are being submitted. And as for all that is transferred to local self-government units, tabular documents will be given to all units of local self-government by the Ministry of State Property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83378	You, too. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I failed to speak a few words in an individual debate, so I'm going to do it in a replica now. So I want to commend, the law is great, it brings excellent solutions, it speeds up procedures, it will contribute to the activation of state property. What I would particularly point out, which is that the law could be revived in order for everything you have suggested to be resolved, to address property-legal relations to the entire state property is necessary. I know it is not in your portfolio, it is in the portfolio of another minister, but support you as the authorised representative of the largest area of unsolved property and real estate in Croatia, will certainly be welcome so I wanted to tell us this trail. If the Croats were to allocate 10% each year for what they allocate for the insurance of their vehicles and their property, then we could really settle this, so I wanted to ask you to contribute to this work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83380	Time, time. Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83381	Thank you very much. Representative Bačić, of course it could be more effective but that many participants need to be united and they should be more effective. I mentioned courts and courts that are slow, which don't make decisions after 10 years. I've said it several times, and I'm going to say it again, maybe it's strange, but as long as the prosecution is under the same roof with the civil justice department, and it wasn't once, I'm afraid there won't be much progress and the Republic of Croatia is representing the State's Attorney's Office and on the matters of both books and charges for payment and emigration charges. And I think that one day it will be necessary to reach consensus here and on this issue and, as far as I'm not a lawyer, some have said that the Constitution needs to be changed, if it needs to be changed for the sake of Croatia and the Constitution, so let's change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83382	Thank you. Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83383	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, you know well how many years it has been that this Croatian property has not been brought into line and has not made a solution. And thank God you're going that way and that you're also this law that's coming to this path so I'm asking you now that when we bring it all in, when it's all to try and speed it up, it's not going to be five, ten years of space standing empty like you saw devastated, so from the military, you've been talking on the seas of all sorts of resorts and everything else. Of course, everything that is here will be quickly brought to us by crime as was declared Agrokor even though we consider all good and will prove that this was a good path, of course for our journalists and for our parliamentary representatives, never something good must always be good for them. As Barisic was once declared a plagiarizer, so it was proven that no one had ever apologized, unfortunately, but everyone spit on him here in the assembly as a plagiarizer. Therefore, feel free to do as you said transparently and honestly as you should, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83384	Time, 13 seconds, 14 seconds. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83385	Thank you very much. Representative Misic, you are the best witness in Osijek, which is there with business spaces, you have had an insight into it. For years, it was either abandoned or unlawfully used. No competition has ever been announced, in the last two months there have been two competitions. And based on this law, we're just going to speed up this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83386	Thank you, too. The last replica, Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83387	Dear Mr. Minister, in any case, thank you for respecting the highest number of suggestions and remarks and suggestions from the previous debate at the first reading. And the law is quality, in any case it's a big step forward and its results will depend on all of us who are operating on it. But in your debate, you touched one of the problems, so here I am using this opportunity to bring it out and highlight, the Austro-Hungarian Catastre and the unsettled cadastres of land books. The units of local self-government that set up the construction of these cadastres are in some way valued by state structures, hence by the judiciary and by the State Geodetic Administration. Namely, they are looking for land books and catastras to be funded by local self-governments, even employed, material costs and everything else, and so does the cadastrian administration so that the problem needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83388	Thank you, thank you. The answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83389	Thank you very much. A colleague, Klaric, and thanks to your discussions, the law is better quality but I must stress from the beginning, almost a year before the public debate, I have been taking part constantly, personally in the creation of this law but I did not write it. And I admit now that I wrote it, it would look certainly different, but unfortunately, there's so much we have to respect from all possible sides and institutions, other ministries, and only then find a compromise. He could have been even better, but it takes time to mature in order to be able to pass through the law easier, this has been a difficult time for such a law to come. But I think he's miles away and incomparable to the existing legal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83390	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83391	We are now going to vote on the points discussed. First final proposal of the State Property Management Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No 256. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, Mr Veljko Kajtazi, Mr GLAS and Mr HSU, Mr IDS, Mr PGS and Mr RIA, Mr HDZ, Mr HNS and Mr Miro Bulj and Mr Ante Pranjic. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted. With us is respected Goran Maric, Minister of State Property. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83392	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83393	Let's go in turn, first amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83394	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83395	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83396	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83397	And he becomes an integral part of the law. Third club of IDS, PGS and RIA representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83398	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Returning to spatial plans at a time when the same plans were made would create justifiable uncertainty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83399	The obvious? Comrade Demetlik, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83400	Just because there was this noise in the House, tell me which article did you explain that you were not accepting? I didn't hear in the back row.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83401	This is on Article 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83402	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So this amendment we simply proposed that state property, whether it is in the management of the Ministry of State Property, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Croatian Forests, be made clear who will manage the property. You know well that in a public debate, it was just proposed that the land that enters the spatial plan and gets the consent of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, as well as the opinions of all other ministries, should, according to the purpose provided for in the spatial plan, be transferred to the management of local self-government, in order to put the property into operation more quickly and efficiently. That's why I'm not happy with the explanation and I'm asking for a vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83403	Thank you. Then let us approach the vote on a proposal that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to the fourth amendment, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83404	The government doesn't accept. It is owned by the Republic of Croatia and, in accordance with the said income of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia, the income of the state budget, which is all defined by a whole series of tax laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83405	Here you go, pal Bull, the obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83406	Thank you very much. Honorable ministers, fellow MPs. The unit of local self-government on which the property is owned or owned by the Republic of Croatia, the entire amount, means according to this proposal, it goes to the state register. And local self-government remains an obligation to build infrastructure. With this amendment 50%, I suggest that 50% go to local self-government, that the mayors should support, because this law only leaves local self-government units with infrastructure building obligations, while the money will go to the ministry's register. I expect mainly from the Dalmatian Zagora of my colleagues, so from all election units of mayors, chiefs and all MPs to vote against this centralisation, against this power of one man in the Republic of Croatia, which is the Minister of State Property and I expect him to protect and decentralise the interests of his citizens not to spend money, while the state will centralise that money and create the dependent mayors to give you whatever the prime minister, to paint with you at the grant. In this way, when 50% of the assets are sold, you are independent, you depend neither on the Pharaohs in the ministry nor the government. I ask you once again fellow MPs to decentralisation, this is a typical example of centralization of power and deprivement of power by local self-government of land that is in the area of local self-government money goes to the minister. I'd like to ask you one more time, vote regardless of the club you belong to and protect local self-government and don't make your cash register dependent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83407	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. We are now going to Amendment number five of MPs, Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83408	The government doesn't accept. Same explanation as for the previous amendment. It is owned by the Republic of Croatia and is in accordance with the said income from the availability of assets owned by the Republic of Croatia in the state budget, all regulated by tax laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83409	Here's your colleague, Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83410	According to the proposed law, the Ministry of State Property manages the properties on which to build camps, hotel complexes, golf courses and other sports-recreation content, and when the land is sold, all income goes to the state budget, and units of local self-government collect only 4% of the price in question. And since local self-government units define this area in their own spatial plans, it would be normal for at least 50% of the sales revenues to go to the local self-government units' register because we know that the municipal contribution will not be enough to build a basic infrastructure to these complexes themselves, so that the retailer's intensities would not have been able to develop these areas because the basic infrastructure of these areas would not be able to be built because the normal local self-government unit does not have so much money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83411	I assume you're looking for a vote. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. We are now going to Amendment six of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83412	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83413	It becomes an integral part of the law. IGS, PGS, RI seventh Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83414	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83415	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8 amendments to the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83416	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83417	It becomes an integral part of the law. 9th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83418	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83419	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 10 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83420	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83421	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 11 of the HNS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83422	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83423	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12 amendments to Mira Bulj's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83424	It's unacceptable. The power of the Minister of State Property to make decisions on the availability of assets of up to 7.5 million kuna has been prescribed because, in practice, the lower threshold has been shown to be a factor which slows down the procedures for the availability of state assets and all decisions on assets of up to 7.5 million kuna had to be made on the side of the commission or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which meant additional and procedures and longer duration of the same assets. In the event of a decision on availability by the Minister through public tenders with an assessment of authorised persons, the possibility of non-transparent availability is not possible but is the only result of the efficiency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83425	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83426	Thank you very much. In the bill we vote on, the amendment itself is one very important change, one of the major changes in what is being centralized and what money is being drawn from property is an increase in the power of the minister from one million kuna to one million euros so that he can sign and have property, real estate, movables. This is another amendment to essentially save the minister from becoming the centre of power, to make him the main decision and the main link in the Republic of Croatia that will increase not by one time but by 7.5 times increased its powers. the price at which he can place his signature in order to sell state property, real estate, movable property and anything that falls under state property. That's why I'm saying that we MPs can't centralize this much power on one man. The intensity of this law must not be the power of one person in the Republic of Croatia, and we know that the Ministry of Property has the highest values it manages. I would ask you once again to remain as it was in the current law of a million kuna, and to vote for this one to be reduced from 7.5 million kuna to a million kuna of the minister's authority that he can decide by his signature on whom to assign, sell the property, and I believe that this is something that the representatives should support is the center of decision in one person for this amount is another centralization of power, not only as in the previous term, the centralisation of property to the central state but the centralisation of power in the hands of one of the Pharaohs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83427	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13 of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83428	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83429	Would you like a colleague, Bull?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83430	Here, I'd do the same thing one more time. This law also centralises the money from the sale of real estate and movables to the state budget. By accepting it, the non-acceptance of the amendment allowed itself. You must know, mostly you are the head of municipalities that come from underdeveloped areas, such as my colleague Šipic, such as my colleagues from my constituency. Know that you have not done well with our local self-government, that you will be obliged to build infrastructure, to those lands that are movable and real estate, which are in that area, yours. You know, you've done some damage to your local self-government. You're becoming addicted to the central state, and that's not fair, because the land, the real estate, the movables, are located in your areas. And it is pointless to vote at all on these amendments, because you simply do not protect the interests and decentralisation of local self-government and therefore we have 2/3 of Croatia empty. Because that money, which is from the sale of land in your unit area, will go to the central cash register and it will deploy it where they are wanted and, of course, to the units where they are in power, that is their decentralisation and the aim of the Ministry of State Property. And that shouldn't be the goal. The goal would have to be a balanced development of the Republic of Croatia and that state property is used for the benefit of people in the Republic of Croatia, and mainly in undeveloped areas, not that Pharaoh manages all the money, and that you are addicts, you become addicts. And there's no point in voting for this amendment, you don't have to vote, because just what you're doing, it's simple, I can't understand that you're doing this much against the people you're choosing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83431	Thank you. We won't vote then, so let's go to Amendment 14. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83432	The government doesn't accept. The authorised court expert who has carried out the evaluation shall be bound by all rules and rules governing the areas and the assessment of the property, including the rules in question, and shall therefore not be particularly stressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83433	Here's your colleague, Dmetlik.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83434	Thank you. We suggested this amendment because it turns out we have double criteria. So for the property that's state-owned, they're estimated under this law. While all those other assets, which are the same public, are assessed by the rules on the valuation methods of the property. And here we are, in contrast, so we have double criteria for cities, municipalities and county and the state. We therefore felt that it was necessary, at least that you promised us that this regulation would be brought into line, because this proposal of yours in law is better than the regulation itself, precisely about the changes that need to be made, regarding the unification of public legal bodies' procedures in case of price reductions in land and buildings. We're one state and it has to be the same rule for one property and another. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83435	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the number of votes is not well needed. We are now going to Amendment number 15 of Agent Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83436	It's unacceptable. The person who built a building on the property owned by the Republic of Croatia and legalized it, the land can be sold directly if the person is based on solutions on state of emergency, legalisation, outcomes and a solution to the identification of the building particle. This solution shall be issued by the competent administrative department of spatial planning. So, a building particle is formed and determined, for a sheltered object, as well as for the use of that object, and I... surface, appearance, determines the competent administrative department. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83437	Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83438	In the bill of law, we had that real estate could be made available to a direct contract, and this is the case of a person who, in the process of legalising an illegally built facility, came up with a decision on the state of play, and built on land owned by the Republic of Croatia, and established on the property in question, the scope of the building particle. That person may be sold the land which has been identified as covering the building particles. However, the question arises, how much coverage of the building particles, given that in the legalisation process, we know how much in the Law on Unlawful Construction in Croatia, and this article actually opens up one possible malversion, because we have not defined how much coverage. I don't know why, or why, the amendment itself went into intensity to define a particle, but a minimal particle defined by the spatial plan of the unit of local self-government, this is how a man can legalize 100 squares of object, and from the state by direct contract he can buy 1000 squares of state land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83439	Voting, are you looking for? ... Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The 16th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83440	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83441	It becomes an integral part of the law. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club. 17 amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83442	The Government does not accept, within the meaning of Article 3(1) of this Act, the camp, and in accordance with the same, or the fact that it is State property, income belongs to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia as a whole, in accordance with the general tax law and other regulations governing the revenues of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83443	An obvious colleague of Demetlik's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83444	Thank you, Mr. President. In order to consistently implement decentralisation in a financial context, it is necessary to provide adequate financial resources for local regional self-government units. Now, finally after so many years, we are introducing a compensation for car camps, and these are the units of local and regional self-government, which must bear the costs of investing and maintaining municipal infrastructure, and in order to be able to provide financial support in order to raise the quality of the specificity of the entire destination, this law requires a basis for additional income for these units. And you yourself, when you explained this law, you said you were expecting big revenues. And we think it would be fair for these revenues to be made in the areas of these units of local self-government to be created and shared rather than be 100% of the amount or income of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83445	Let us also vote on this amendment that the Government does not accept. Neither did this amendment get the required number of votes, so let's go to Amendment 18 of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83446	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83447	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment No. 19 MPs, Veljak Katazia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83448	The government accepts in a way that the new subparagraph 8 reads: the implementation of the Croatian Government's operational programmes for national minorities. So it's just a word for national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83449	A colleague of Kattazi's?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83450	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83451	Then in this form, as the minister said, the amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Let's go to the no. 20, IDS, PGS and RIA.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83452	The government doesn't accept. It is the law's urgency to give to the use of state assets premises for the work of the state administration body. Taking into account limited resources, and the number of bodies of the local and regional individuals, regional self-government is not possible to prescribe the Ministry's obligation to provide all suitable space. Furthermore, units of local and regional, regional self-government own a certain number of properties, and since the Republic of Croatia pays compensation to local and regional self-government units...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83453	Minister, one second, please. My colleagues and colleagues, I beg you, be correct to the speakers. There's a lot of noise, and it can't be heard. I'm asking you to let the speakers speak. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83454	In addition, local and regional self-government units own a number of real estates themselves, and since the Republic of Croatia pays compensation to local and regional self-government units if the authorities of the state administration are located in their properties, the proposed solution would not achieve reciprocity between the Republic of Croatia and the local and regional self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83455	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83456	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we're doing the difference between state level and local level again. It seems we can't possibly understand that we're over that barrier that the state is a state, that it's a city, that it's a municipality and that it's a county. One criterion for the business premises or those properties that exist, means only as a state can you manage and add without compensation. I think if it takes units of local self-government to apply the same criteria, it can be assigned. And what you said about paying fees, there's a law where the state doesn't exactly pay local self-government units a communal fee for those places that haven't been in function and yawns for so many years. So the local self-government units are damaged from two ends. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83457	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment didn't get the number of votes needed, so let's go to Amendment No. 21 HDZ representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83458	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83459	It becomes an integral part of the Law. IDS, PGS and RIA, Amendment No. 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83460	The government doesn't accept. Article 45 already provides for cases in which real estate can be owned by the Republic of Croatia, and for the benefit of local and regional self-government units, and this includes apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83461	It's obvious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83462	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry you're not really using this unique opportunity to finally take a bigger step towards decentralisation. This proves that you are either not hearing enough that we have spoken not only from the opposition but from the associations of cities, associations of municipalities, community of the county on the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government and that you really want to deal with both apartments and business spaces and garages instead of using it to take advantage of those guidelines that we have outlined now that we have started with the Council meeting in the EU where one of our tasks is to strengthen local and regional self-government by the decentralisation process. Do you really think that apartments, business spaces, garages, I'll tell the sheds that are located in the areas of local self-government units, that you have to manage it? I mean, I really can't accept this argument of yours, so I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83463	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Nor did this amendment receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 23 MPs of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83464	The government does not accept the same explanation as for amendments in order No. 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83465	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83466	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is also an anti-demographic law because it simply draws money from property in local self-government areas in the central cash register and, of course, there is a key problem for undeveloped areas. The amendments I have made, not to centralize power in the hands of one man and to centralize the power of local self-government to sell real estate, shares, movables, all that the state owns in the area of local self-government, those values, that remains the amount of 50% and that the minister does not have so many times this law has increased his authority. He can sell property with his signature. I think in a moment here, I'm going to tell you a few things, only in the Dalmatian Zagora when 24 thousand people have moved out in the last four years, at a time when we no longer have a radiologist in Sinj's health home for Cetina Krajina. The last day is work, the rest is another older person who was supposed to retire, now works. When we have 500 thousand inhabitants in Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county, only 4 radiologists in the area, home to health. When everything is privatized. You allow, fellow MPs, mostly local leaders, to allow instead of asking for that money, it is yours, to invest in homes of health, in education, free textbooks, free transportation, you villages are extinct by gentlemen in Dalmatia Zagora, Slavonia, Gorski Kotar, Lici. Go, go, go, and you will give so much power to the Treasury by not accepting these amendments that and what's left, and these are real estates because people are gone, you will let them go to the central state, instead of investing in kindergartens like you said. Once again, please vote in favour of this amendment, let us not give this much authority to one man, no matter what you respect, I am not only talking about this minister, let no minister let the values of your areas go to the central register, that they come to you on the days of Alka to come to you to paint, to promise false promises. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83467	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. So we're going to amendment number 24 of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83468	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83469	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 25 of the IDS, PGS and RIA Representatives Clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83470	The government doesn't accept. Such a solution is prescribed and valid by the Law on the management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, and it is related to all regulations governing matter on conversion and privatisation since 1999. Following that adoption of the proposed amendment, it would imply a breach in a number of other specific regulations and would result in legal uncertainty and inequality of treatment in relation to the previous ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83471	There you go. There you go. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83472	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, it is again these apartments and business premises that have been transferred to management by social enterprises in the process of converting funds into a residential and municipal economy. They're citizens by pooling funds... on the housing and municipal economy and social enterprises and such are the units of local self-government, because they were heirs to these rights and liabilities of the funds maintained and managed by them until a few years ago, and after that, the decision, i.e. The law transposed this into state governance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we have a case in Croatia that a large number of units have not passed it on at all, and we do not have the tools in which to do so. So you have again apartments and business premises that are still in the management of local self-government units. In order for us as a unit of local self-government to share these apartments again for those social cases of deficit, these apartments are empty again, yap empty, we know that, because you have requests at the ministry just for the assignment of such apartments, but you don't give up again. I suggest, Mr. Minister, that the best thing to do is go to a local self-government reform. And the state takes charge of everything, of apartments, of business spaces, of spatial plans, that mayors and mayors are only figures at the opening which exhibits or sporting events and that the state absolutely manages everything, and then we'll say that we have a 100% centralized state, because this is really incomprehensible that the apartments that were on local self-government units until a few years ago proved that we can and can maintain and solve those deficits, social cases, defenders and so forth, that today we simply cannot manage that property at a local level. [[So let's be correct, it's loud, you're speaking loud, I'm asking you to be really fair.]] I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83473	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. We're now going to Amendment 26 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83474	The government accepts part of it. The introduction of public pillars in Article 70 and roads according to a special regulation shall be accepted with the status of unclassified roads, while the cycling trails are part of the road. The following are not subject to the regulation of this law, whereas the formulation of the other public area is undefined and too wide and is therefore unacceptable for inclusion in the provision in question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83475	Here's an indication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83476	I accept your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83477	Thank you. Then the amendment becomes in shape as said by Minister Maric. We're going to the 27th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83478	The Government shall, in part, accept in a way that in the proposed amended Article 71(1), the words or decisions on exemption from the prohibition of availability are added behind the words of the international contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83479	A fellow Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83480	Thank you, Mr. President. We accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83481	I thank you, then the amendment in that form becomes an integral part of the law. And the last amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83482	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83483	And he becomes an integral part of the law. I would like to thank the Minister now for voting on the final proposal of the Law on State Property Management. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 83 for, 26 abstentions and 15 votes against, were passed by the State Property Management Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83484	And now we move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European Partnership, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The proposed act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of Rule 207 of the Rules of Procedure, stipulates that the laws which are approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are generally in one reading, although there have been exceptions in the past. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. Here is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, Mrs Zdravka Busic, who will introduce us to this contract. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored Madame MPs, respected MPs. Here I will brief you on what this Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the European Partnership. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is to cultivate a high level of bilateral relations with BiH in order to strengthen its long-term stability and security, particularly through support for Euro-Atlantic processes within BiH. Through support for Euro-Atlantic processes and initiatives within BiH, the government supports democratic political processes by helping and political empowering Croats as one of the three constituent peoples in BiH. Given the mutually demonstrated political readiness for co-operation in building a European partnership at a joint session of the government of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH Council of Ministers held in Sarajevo on 7 July 2017, a contract was signed between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the European Partnership. The Treaty establishes an international legal framework for the co-operation of the two countries in the EU accession process. The Treaty confirms their determination to establish and develop a European partnership and to strengthen cooperation in the EU accession process with the Government of the Republic of Croatia providing adequate political and technical support to the Council of Ministers and to make its specific knowledge available through experience and expertise from the negotiation process. The objectives of cooperation in the framework of the European Partnership set up by this Treaty are to provide assistance and facilitate the accession of BiH to the EU through the transfer of specific knowledge and experience from the negotiating process of the Republic of Croatia, to assist in adapting national legislation and institutional infrastructure of BiH, and to raise the level of expertise of its servants in matters of importance for EU accession, to assist in the quality and timely information processes of the public on all reforms in the framework of EU accession and to assist BiH institutions in managing EU financial assistance. In order to monitor the implementation of the contract, the contract provides for the establishment of a joint commission composed of representatives of the Contracting Parties to build cooperation implementation programmes and to identify the action and activities in the areas referred to in the contract. All these activities, projects and cooperation to be planned and implemented on the basis of this Treaty will be consistent with all these objectives. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources from the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. This law confirms a contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on the European Partnership, with a view to making its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international agreements and formally expressing its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international agreement as well as the fact that the draft proposal for a European partnership was unanimous, meaning unanimously supported by the first Committee on Legislatives held on 5 December of last year, the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament held on 12 December also last year and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia held outside the Republic of Croatia on 14 December 2017, we propose the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government and the Council of Ministers of BiH. The Bosnian-Herzegovina party completed the procedure and confirmed this contract at the end of last year and December 14th, respectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83486	Thank you too, Mrs. Bushic. You have two replicas. The first line will be presented by Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83487	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State, I certainly support the European route BIH, I think it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people, but I would refer to one thing. You mentioned democratic processes and the importance of democratic processes. I absolutely agree, but part of the democratic process is respecting the constitutional court's decisions. We, as we know, have a decision of the Constitutional Court, which is the electoral rule of the Federation of BIH, in one part declared unconstitutional, in that part, where it decided that in cantons, i.e. counties where there are practically no Croats, Croatian representatives are elected to the home of the people, the Federation of BIH Assembly, which in fact led to the selection of persons who are not actually representatives of the constituent people, as representatives of the Croatian BIH. Here, I want to know how you look at it, considering that we... BISH, of course, whose legality and constitutionality, if that decision is not implemented, is at stake. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83488	You want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83489	Yeah. Thank you very much for asking. We're all aware of what's going on, the election's being called, we're trying everything we can, so we need all these processes to move forward, to participate in it, and hopefully again, no matter what you say and what we all know, we hope that we can still make something happen. And if the election law doesn't change, we'll get some better results, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83490	Thank you, too. Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83491	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State Busic, you said that at a joint session of the government, Croatia and the BiH, this agreement was adopted unanimously and that everyone was satisfied. But after that, there were reactions, occasionally from the BiH, such as a member of the presidency of Mr Izetbegovic, who said that Croatia is not helping the political BiH on its way to the EU, nor is foreign investment attracted. And then he said that the statements from Croatia, coming from the state summit itself, that there are 5, 10,000 covered terrorists in the BiH, are actually just making it harder for the BiH to move towards the EU, because who will receive such a country in the EU. I am interested because I have not heard the Croatian government answer to such questions, i.e. such statements from the very Bosnian Herzegovina state summit, which is actually the answer of the Croatian government to Mr Izetbegovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83492	Answer, Mrs. Bushic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83493	Thank you very much, Mr. Klisovic, that you too are familiar, of course, this kind of thing will always happen and always be different, of course, I am familiar with what Mr. Izetbegovic was saying, but regardless, we are looking for dialogue and we would agree with me that we must come to the dialogue. We can't just respond the same way with the same measure. So, I am convinced, and I know that the Croatian Government of the Republic is doing everything possible and that in its power to be as few of these are actually sparks, or great sparks, and that the agreement comes to life as soon as possible and it is only in the interest of the BIH, especially, you yourself know, Mr. Klisovic, that it is in the interest of the Croatian people, who is a constituent people there. Yeah, but this kind of thing, I hope we're gonna avoid it, and that's why I think, at least that's my opinion, is not a good fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83494	Time, thank you. Whether or not the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Josko Klisovic is first in front of the SDP's representative's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83495	I welcome once again the Secretary of State Busic, and I must conclude at the very beginning that the SDP Club will support this agreement, and another finding, that it is actually nice to see when there is continuity in foreign policy on important issues, and we are all aware that the issue of our neighbours' entry, including the BiH into the EU and NATO, is an important political issue both with the security and national interest of the Republic of Croatia. We are aware that this whole concept, therefore, of providing assistance that is regulated in fact by this agreement of the countries of Southeast Europe in their path to the EU and those who want to join NATO, is actually just designed to expand one space of prosperity, one space of stability, one space of disemboweling the same values and equal legal system of the EU, the legal aki is worth it, and what certainly makes it easier for the Republic of Croatia to interact with its neighbours. The concept of the Euro-Atlantic partnership we designed during Milanovic's government and I think it is good that it is consistently implemented and that it has been accepted as one issue consensually on which we all have a good opinion, regardless of who is in power will continue to implement it. He's imagined in a way of being partnered. I've mentioned it many times from this pay phone. It is not intended for Croatia to represent itself as the leader of Southeast Europe, so the country that has joined the EU and now, will help others to enter with its strength and leadership. Why isn't he so imaginary? So precisely because leadership in Southeast Europe is very often identified, with an attempt to dominate other countries. Because if you're a leader, then you're better, better than the others, and you have the power to impose your will on those you want to lead. So, this concept of Euro-Atlantic partnership, it has an emphasis on partnership, and it was precisely the idea for Croatia to appear as a partner of the countries of South-Eastern Europe that did not enter the EU and NATO, and in order to meet all the conditions for joining the EU and NATO faster, more effectively, on the basis and on our experience. The point above all was to provide technical and development assistance to countries on their way to the EU and NATO, in order to meet all the requirements in this process, and then, of course, in the final phase through political lobbying in these organisations and to ensure that these countries enter the EU and NATO as quickly as possible. BiH is one of our neighbours who has such ambition, unfortunately only in the end we sign this agreement, with all the other countries we have signed precisely because of the complex situation in making decisions in BiH it took so long, but all of our efforts, all of our good will, all of our support that we are providing BiH, of course, will come into question if there is no clear unequivocal and firm commitment to the European path. And we are aware and we are very often witnessing that the European project in BiH is often put into the context of the daily political struggles between different parties, not to say occasionally and political parties from different constitutive peoples. Therefore, what is still missing in BiH is a very clear unequivocal and firm commitment to the EU that has no alternative in another way, to another association or group of states. I still have to say I have not seen this level of commitment as it existed in Croatia, Slovenia or some other countries that have entered the EU but there is one tendency to put this project and everything that is related to it including the reform processes that have to go on very often in the context of day-to-day political struggles and that it is always subject to slow down and slow down unless it corresponds to every political page or people of BiH in the way they would like it. It is ours to provide technical and development support to give the list that we are able to provide to our neighbours, and it is theirs that from this list of catalogues of activities and measures that we are able to offer them choice and that we are then carrying out such things together. We have seen that recently the European Commission has received or assessed, assessed, analysed the answers to questions that are more than 3242 I think the issues raised by BiH, for the BiH process took 14 months while other countries took less than 6 months. It also points to the complexity of decision-making in BiH and the subjection of any decision or move that appears to be an internal decision-making process that can then be caught in daily political disputes, political accounts and thus de facto slow down and halt the whole process. The opinion of the SDP club is that Croats in BiH should certainly be an avant-garde of the whole process, be the internal engine of European integration of BiH is in their best interest that BiH enters the EU and NATO as soon as possible because it is the fastest, most painless and best way to guarantee them and not only guarantee them but in practice enforce those rights which are drawn up in the Bosnian-Herzegovina Constitution and legislation, first of all the right to equality, the right to elect its own representatives in bodies where there is a national quota, such as the BiH presidency. So through the entry into BiH, there is a reform of the political and constitutional system, it is brought into line with the EU's modern values, and thus Croatians are given a strong instrument to protect their rights and realise their rights in practice, which they simply have to show in this process that political forces in BiH are unequivocally and firmly advocated and in practice pushes the European project. This seems extremely important to me, which does not exclude, of course, that the other two constituent nations have a desire and ambition for BiH to join the EU as soon as possible. As for Mr Izetbegovic and the questions I have asked myself, of course I am not glad to hear such reactions from BiH on good intentions that Croatia traditionally shows towards BiH and its path to the EU and NATO, but we must be more careful in Croatia when we make statements about BiH. I can believe that it is not pleasant to hear in BiH that there are 10,000 terrorists hiding hidden who are ready to act at any moment. If such data and exist, then these are not data that are being delivered to public space unless you want to prepare your citizens and your national mobilization bodies to contain such activity. I have not seen any mobilization on this issue in the Republic of Croatia, therefore I think such statements are hasty and harmful to bilateral relations between Croatia and BiH and should be abstained from taking them to public space. If there are any security indications that potential terrorists are being trained or collected on BiH territory, then these are the things for the intelligence community and some other state bodies that, in accordance with their rules of profession, carry out work and ensure security and the Republic of Croatia. Of course we have partners in NATO and the EU, and we all care about the security of Europe and BiH in particular. Highlighting this kind of thing in public space behind which after that is silence, without any response from the Bosnian-Herzegovina member of the presidency, I do not think it contributes to the development of bilateral relations and is not state-owned or wise. Therefore, on our part more caution in making statements, and from Bosnia and Herzegovina also more understanding of Croatia's good will to help BiH on its way to the EU. This road is divided into two parts, one part is the technical part so all membership conditions must be met and that Croatia can be very helpful and therefore this is the purpose of this agreement that you presented to us today, the other part is political support where, of course, we must be more careful not to make it seem that our support and BiH's advocacy is understood in BiH as a particular tutorship or as a wish for Croatia to define the national priorities of BiH. So Croatia is not here to say that BiH's best interest is to join the EU and NATO, and Croatia can only establish this national interest of BiH and as a neighbouring and friendly state in partnership with the BIH to help, as much as it can help, as it can, in favour of political instances as soon as possible to join the EU and NATO. Since this part, this agreement also has that Atlantic part, the Euro-Atlantic Euro-Atlantic Partnership Agreement, I must remind you once again, that there is no consensus in the BIH either, because if there were, then the last condition for entering the MAP would be realised, and that is to say, that the military property of all the properties that are designated as such would be owned by the BiH State. This has not yet happened, which clearly and clearly confirms that there is no level of commitment to join NATO, which existed in Croatia and other countries that are already members of NATO, which, of course, the citizens and political parties in the BIH must work on. Because this is how they send ambiguous signals to the international community, and even to us as a neighbor, that they care about entering NATO, but, well, they're not able to book 69 properties sometimes I don't know how many of them are still listed in land books as BISH property. It's an administrative job that shouldn't last years if there's a political will to join NATO. All of these elements I mentioned are actually problematic about the lack of sufficient commitment and shared vision in the BIH on its Euro-Atlantic pathway. Because one is the word, the other is the part. If the works do not follow the words, then there is doubt and that is what we currently have in BIH and Croatia as a neighbouring state, I think that in its bilateral contacts it should always warn that all moves interpreted in the European or Euro-Atlantic context must be clear and unequivocal and must confirm the commitment of the political leadership of the BIH, the political parliamentary parties of the BIH, its path to the EU and NATO. Because without it, it's gonna be hard to get into these two organizations, especially what's the final part of the process, the political part of the process, and if it doesn't feel real desire and commitment to getting into these two organizations, then it's never going to happen. Therefore, our task is to explain this to the Bosnian Herzegovic political leadership, that only with clear commitment and commitment to the European project and NATO entry will they end up there. Any other contemplation will only extend that path and then truly no one can guarantee when and at what point the BIH will enter the EU and NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83496	Thank you, Mr. Klisovic, it is now Mr. Zeljko Raguž's turn in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83497	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, MPs and MPs. As it is said, the contract that we are today confirming by the final draft law, the European Partnership Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the BIH signed in Sarajevo on 7 July 2017 at a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the BIH. It was the second session, following the first joint session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers held in June 2010. It is symbolic that this session took place in Sarajevo in July 2017, following the European Parliament's resolution on the BIH, where the emphasis was placed on 2 key principles, when constitutional reforms of the BiH are needed, is the principle of federalism in the constitutional legal structure of the BIH and the principle of legitimate representation in the political life of the BIH. It is this resolution that is, in a certain way, an indicator of consciousness or, more responsible, a more mature relationship between the policies of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia after years of wandering from 2000, so symbolically, by 2015. Of course, this resolution, which mentions the resolution in the European Parliament's BIH, is part of the commitment of our representatives in the European Parliament. It should also be pointed out that, for the 2016-2020 term of office, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and its foreign policy have highlighted that the European future of the BIH is a key external political objective of the Republic of Croatia. And that the Republic of Croatia will seek to take care of the Croatian people in the BIH, and when it comes to Southeast Europe, therefore, further European integration of the countries of Southeast Europe, i.e., transatlantic integration, that the Republic of Croatia will be an advocate and promoter of EU policy in Southeast Europe. What, after all that has been said to technical elements, is the final proposal for a European partnership law between the Republic of Croatia and the BiH, which I think needs to be more specifically talked about, because nothing is going to change there with nice or ugly words, but is going to be changed by direct, real influence and engagement, which, after years of engagement of the international community, which was conducted by the United States and after a certain loss of interest for the fate of the BIH there are the foundations of the real geopolitical position of BiH other influential forces in the world, i.e. other forces in the world, which are, above all, Russia, then Turkey, but Iceland countries, above all Iran and Saudi Arabia. So, because of its geopolitical position, the EU, or the Republic of Croatia, has been called on to more directly advocate the European future of BiH and to foster the influence it has in the European institutions the need for such an engagement. BiH, by its position, is a geopolitical position, following its history, clearly belongs to European civilization. And that does not mean that in the future it will belong to European civilization, so this depends on the direct engagement of the EU. It is mentioned here that the EU's policy through these principles of federalism, i.e. legitimate representation, is not realised in BiH's political life, because there are interests that oppose the implementation of the European Parliament's resolution, and it could not even come to the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Who are the opponents of the European Policy towards BiH? Opponents, therefore, are holders of domination in BiH's political life. for the past 15 years, when the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina have developed because of their European ambitions in a certain way, because of their European ambitions. In Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, there are two governments operating the two entities, the majority government in Banja Luka and the majority government in Sarajevo with the Bosniak majority. So for years, the ambition of the Croatian people in BiH has been discredited to be equal with Bosniaks and Serbs on the principle that it would mean BiH's disintegration, so that it would mean the domination of Croats over Serbs, Bosniaks, so isn't it the domination of what we have today in Republika Srpska where Serbs dominate Bosniaks and Croats or the Federation of BiH, where Bosniaks dominate Croats and Serbs, and why would it not dominate BiH in the same way through their federal unit with Bosniaks and Serbs? It would probably contribute to a more realistic view of BiH's nature and the need for people's cooperation in BiH. BiH was three obstructive worlds operating under the influence and co-ordination of forces that managed BiH once the Ottoman administration, later Austro-Hungarian, two Yugoslav administrations, today BiH manages an undefined structure of the international community still under the leadership of the United States, through the Office of the High Representative, but this is no longer the influence of the international community because the influences were realised as I said through one process of developing two independent state structures that are so far in the confederal relationship. What will be tomorrow is a question of all questions to be asked by the Republic of Croatia as well as by the EU. As it is said, regardless of all these forces, there is a need and that in some way a declaration does not question BiH's ambition to be in principle through the process of integration and the process of meeting the requirements for EU accession, but it should be checked in practice. With regard to the Treaty on European Partnership, as said, on 14 December 2017, on the basis of the competences prescribed by the BiH Constitution, Article 5(3) of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has agreed to carry out a ratification of the Treaty on European Partnership between BiH and the Republic of Croatia. It was also done on 22 December 2017. The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and later this contract was ratified by the BiH Presidency on 17 January 2018, based on the jurisdiction of the prescribed BiH Constitution. But what is important to me and to what I will return to, life requires the needs of BiH and the Republic of Croatia's cooperation, regardless of all the problems and misunderstandings that exist between the people of BiH and all the problems and controversial details that exist in BiH's relations as it is indeed the Republic. So several other agreements, agreements, memos and protocols were signed at this joint cabinet session, which calls for a modern life in relations between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. Before Bosnia and Herzegovina are the days of uncertainty, elections were held in October, the Bosniak parties opposed the deadline prescribed for the vote to make changes to the electoral law based on the BiH Constitutional Court ruling on December 1st 2016 in the Ljubic case. What are they up against? They oppose the reason why they would lose the mechanism of affecting the election of MPs in the House of Peoples of the Federal Parliament, or later indirectly to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. When Bosniak parties are left without any influence if the Constitutional Court's decision is implemented, legitimate representatives of the Croatian people would in a certain way restore some of the equality mechanisms the Croats had in BiH under the Dayton Agreement. During this period when Croatia turned its interests and opportunities from BiH, over a hundred amendments were imposed on the BiH Constitution, which questioned the equality mechanisms prescribed by the Dayton Peace Agreement in BiH, were transferred to BiH through the jurisdiction of Republika Srpska, all of them by senior representatives who thus preferred to say precisely, the Bosniak side in BiH. The nature of BiH is that I said earlier that it was being held together by these three nations, three perverse worlds, that they held foreign forces. And today these foreign forces are being placed as has happened before in history, on one side of BiH. This does not contribute to co-operation, this does not contribute to the stability, stability of BiH, this is causing a series of uncertainty, so Turkey in BiH, Iceland's countries and the unclear outcome of the migration crisis that is developing in BiH and what to talk about, of course I agree with counterpart Klisovic, with precise data, not bringing further unrest into the complex relations between BiH and the Republic of Croatia, but also from these precise data should not be avoided when relevant organisations speak of them. Regardless of all this, I appreciate that the Republic of Croatia has made significant positive steps in its engagement within the Government of the Republic of Croatia over the last two years. More specifically, BiH is being talked about, there is an increasingly mature relationship between the entire political spectrum in the Croatian Parliament towards BiH, which also took place at a recent joint session of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Foreign Policy. It is good to agree on the policy of the Republic of Croatia towards BiH, and this final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on European Partnership between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers, the Republic of Croatia, gives its contribution to the European future of BiH, and I believe that in this effort, other EU member states, the European institutions, and in this way, may be challenging in one way for someone, in a natural way, because the interests of both world forces and the interests of different civilizations are legitimate, only then will they be able to help BiH in one real and more responsible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83498	Thank you, too. Now we move on to individual debates, the first individual debate has Mr. Miro Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83499	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am pleased to discuss today this very important topic, a topic of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia. I congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia for signing with BiH, specifically with the Council of Ministers such an agreement, I am pleased to have had the honour of having had more than 2 years ago, it was at the end of January 2016, on the 7th day after the Government had voted here that I had presented this proposal to my colleague at the Council of Ministers of BiH and as chairman of the Council of Ministers Mr. Terzic as well as the idea of holding a joint session of the two governments and we see all these things now, we have failed to realise, because we remember almost two years ago the government of Mr. Oreshkovic lost the trust of the Croatian Parliament. So the engagement that Mr. Raguž mentioned towards BiH is very positive, we are doing a step forward, and then two years ago we launched the idea of opening two consulates in BiH, in Knights and in Livno, and we are doing it today and we congratulate the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Madam President opened the Croatian Consulate in Knights the other day. There is still room to strengthen co-operation, we also have opportunities to strengthen cooperation with the Federation, when we look at what the Dayton Peace Agreement offers, we have the possibility of also building partnership with cantons, with counties, with municipalities in BiH and we can do so, and I am confident that we will continue to step up cooperation on this plan. The European path of BiH has been accelerated and because, two years ago, Mr Covic was headed by the Presidency for 8 months, then with our incentives, means the Republic of Croatia but also our representatives in the European Parliament have done a part of the motivational work and a request for BiH's membership in the EU has been submitted to the European Commission, the questionnaire has been filled in, and has now been given back to colleagues and BiH additional questions to clarify, but this European path of BiH has been launched and we are now very concrete, to whom it is most useful in BiH and who is most interested, just one of the three and at least three constitutional peoples. These are Croats because they can be very well recognised in it because for the Croats in BiH, some of us have come up with a thematic session of the Croatian Committee outside the Republic of Croatia that they are a very clear European path and constitutionality of Croats, the equality of Croats with the same medals. The European way means very clearly in today's times, respecting the principle of rule of law. The rule of law means that it must be respected in the specific case of the BiH electoral law, the Constitutional Court's decision that each of the three peoples choose their representatives in the bodies of both the BiH representative and the BiH presidency. It is therefore positive that the Republic of Croatia is actively working on this European path of BiH, of course it is up to the authorities in BiH to work on the necessary changes in society, to adopt European standards to make myself so simplified, but it is up to us in the Republic of BiH to give maximum support. Times have changed in the EU, no more enthusiasm for enlargement. You also heard Mr. President Macron talking to me today or yesterday about how we shouldn't talk too much about enlargement, how we should put emphasis on reforms, on the transformations of the societies of countries to so-called. To the Western Balkans, Croatia is one of the few countries in the EU and there is a consensus with the opposition colleagues, so there is one of the three major areas I would say where... I have reached a consensus, so this is the Homeland War, this is the issue of Croatia's entry into the EU five years ago, but that road was launched in 2005 with the opening of negotiations and now an enlargement policy in the EU and concrete support for BiH. So the climate has changed in the EU itself and it is difficult to get politicians in the larger EU member states, I mean especially those in the old Member States in countries that are the countries that founded the European Community itself. It is difficult to point at a political scene with an enlargement policy, it is difficult to speak at party meetings, it is difficult to go to a factory in Germany, France, the Netherlands in Belgium and tell workers that they should work on EU enlargement policies, although these Member States are the most profitable of enlargements because people from the newer EU member states are going there, especially young people from the newer EU member states and Croatia themselves. So this phenomenon of evicting us here in Croatia hurts, but if you travel a little to Central and Eastern Europe then we will realize that this phenomenon is present there as well. I was in Lithuania the other day, and I realized that villages were empty, they lost a quarter of their population in the last 27 years. So once again, I would like to congratulate the government of the Republic of Croatia on its engagement towards BiH. The Republic of Croatia is here in the Parliament, I repeat, I have reached a consensus, wants all BiH to progress and we support the whole of BiH, and of course we are fighting, and that is our obligation to the Dayton agreement, we are promoting Croatia's commitment to respect and implement the Constitution of BiH, thereby and the Constitutional Court's decision that each of the three peoples choose their representatives, meaning we are particularly concerned, the care of the Croats in BiH and I am glad that we will continue within the framework of the Croatian Parliament and within the framework of several committees, and also within the framework of the Committee on Foreign Policy with colleagues from the Committee on Croatians outside of the Republic of Croatia to work very nearly here in the Croatian Assembly to receive one strong support either in the form of a resolution or declaration for BiH, for its development and for the rights of Croats in BiH. Mr. President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83500	Thank you, too. But we won't say goodbye yet because you have four replicas. The first line is Mr. Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83501	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you mentioned in your presentation of a consulate in central Bosnia in the Knight's Day, that's nice to meet you. I'm glad to hear that we are getting as close to the Croats as possible in central Bosnia. I also see that a new time has come, and I would say politically, and even here in the Parliament, I would say a new time has come. Of course, we should also try to make sure that our people who are in the area of Banja Luka, the Bosnian Posavina who we know are expelled, who we know that in these 25 years nothing has been done for them, who know that they are still burned down, which is politics so that I could tell the truth and the open and until today did not support that part of the return and construction of these houses and help these people. I hope this is a new time, that this government, that this Parliament, too, will accept that fact and that once we finally start to solve these problems that are the worst problems that exist. True, equality is the most important thing in BiH, and we Croats have to fight and what is to be pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83502	Time. Mr. Kovac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83503	Thank you very much. Just what you said to my colleague Misic, so that's where we agree, Croatia is getting more active when it comes to BiH. Croatia must show that engagement towards BiH, which the Croats in BiH have shown when it comes to the Republic of Croatia itself when it comes to defending the survival of the Republic of Croatia, and this government is now doing so, not only this government. I will repeat another time, our common conclusion there is fortunately, in the Croatian Parliament today a consensus with the parties that are in opposition today, of course we will not forget the Croats in the entity of Republika Srpska. They are active there and Mr. Milas and Mr. Hungarian's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83504	Thank you. Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83505	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovac, you were talking about EU enlargement. I think that EU enlargement must be a priority of the Republic of Croatia, not only when we talk about the perspective of the BiH, of course, and you have pointed out why it is one of the priorities of the Republic of Croatia, but when we talk about Montenegro, Serbia, Albania, Macedonia, so to all countries, so to speak. The Western Balkans, therefore, that are not yet in the EU. They must have a clear European perspective. Why? Because I fear a different scenario or alternative to the European perspective. I think that the Republic of Croatia must be louder and more active since we are EU members and we need and we need to be the engine of EU enlargement in these areas, and this contract is one of the ways that we can facilitate or help our neighbours to expand the EU to the whole region or to make all EU member states become EU members, which is a long-term guarantee of stability and development in this region. So we have to be much more proactive here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83506	Answer, Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83507	I'm glad we agree here, Mr. Hajdukovic. It's not popular to quote this politician, I'll do it. Seven years ago, Mr Orban said that in Southeast Europe there should not be a black hole, it must not remain a black spot, referring to the countries of the Western Balkans. And I agree with him absolutely. Croatia has helped, Croatia is helping and Croatia will help. I will repeat, the job as such must be done by the governments of those countries, we will help, they must do the job and not only convince us, they must convince the so-called member states in particular. the old Western Europe because they are as critical as our parliamentary colleagues in those countries are, in particular, the most critical and then some ministry people are asking us to help convince fellow parliamentarians in those Member States that we should, for example, open negotiations with Albania and Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83508	Thank you, too. Mr. Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83509	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mr Kovac, you mentioned that a meeting was held in Sarajevo between Croatia and the Bosnian-Herzegovina government. Such sessions are usually, very often presented as a good PR government and therefore organised by them. They also come from very nice sentences of praise to one government to another, etc. What I am interested in, whether in this particular case agreed between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BIH any concrete activity that the Croatian government would in practice support the way of the BiH towards the EU or continue to remain on empty flossules, empty sentences of great support. Whether the two governments' meeting, the two main executive bodies in the two countries, resulted in anything concrete that Croatia could and should do for the BIH in agreement with the BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83510	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83511	There's Secretary of State Busic. She can talk for a long time, someone from the Croatian government can send you everything that's agreed and signed there. Five documents have been signed, but I will now speak from the perspective and representatives in the Croatian Parliament and... The next thing you know, in politics, everyday work is important, but symbolism should have regular joint meetings of governments, I mean this country in the neighborhood, when you look at it in Western Europe, it's a normal thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The German Government, the Italian Government, Germany-France, France-Spain, France-Germany, Germany-China, Germany-US, Germany-Israel, etc. That's how we have to do it. And when we achieve that we will have a joint cabinet session with Serbia, then we will be on track. Therefore, symbolism is important, but, of course, daily hard work is important, and as far as BIH is concerned, believe me, I've read it a little bit, there are a lot of good activities in common.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83512	Thank you. Mr. Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83513	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kovac, you were saying that Europe is saturated with EU enlargement. Among other things, because it no longer wants to deal with these countries' problems because it simply makes this position difficult. However, the Republic of Croatia should be interested in carrying out its strategic interests which include that the BIH also enters Europe, but the assumption is that both Europe and the BiH offer a solution, i.e. the path of resolution, which is to advocate federalism, the Federation as a way of resolving and, if you will, the constitution of most European states and even the old states, and there is also that we begin to present it as a European value and impose it on both Europe and the BIH to protect or to achieve equality, constitutionality and Croats as a constituent people in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83514	Answer, Mr. Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83515	Thank you very much. It is understood that no one wants to import foreign countries' problems. It's as clear as day. That is why Serbs will not be able to enter the EU not only because of us here in the Republic of Croatia, which we have our own demands that must be respected, but also some other countries have their own demands. Therefore, the issue with Kosovo must be resolved, before this will be possible EU membership. It's as clear as day. As far as BiH itself is concerned, Croats there are those who have the opportunity to propose how to restructure BiH, legitimately Croats in BiH suggest to their representatives that the country be more efficient and that every solution that the Croats propose, which is the most appropriate for the Croats in BiH or the former... or something else, we leave it to them, we will accept Croatia [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, there must be a deal with the other two peoples. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83516	Time. Now it's the next individual debate, Mr. Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a lot of things being said, but I would actually go back here to the very gene of BiH's current arrangement as it works today, and I think if we don't discuss it we can't actually talk about the European path of BiH, or the current moment it is at. So BiH in today's form was created for two agreements, it is often forgotten, so it is a Washington agreement created by the Federation of BiH, Croatia-Bosnia and the Dayton Agreement, which actually created a framework for a complete BiH. So these agreements actually gave the Constitution, or the Constitution of the Federation, and BiH is their component. What's important here is that this system is already imagined by the time they are entities, so Republika Srpska and the Federation are conceived as those holders of most jurisdiction, most of the funds, most of the resources, etc. and then within the Federation of BiH also cantons, i.e. counties that have very high responsibilities very rarely spoken of. What I would also like to mention, which so far has not been mentioned, is that there was a possibility so-called. The special relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Federation of BiH in a way that has actually shown the special interest of Croatia in BiH, without, of course, Croatia cannot function safely or economically unless BiH is stable. But what happened? So this system then had mechanisms to protect the equality of all three peoples, although they had this asymmetric variant means where we have 2 entities, 3 constituent nations, in the Federation of BiH there were mechanisms, constitutional mechanisms to protect these collective rights of Croats as a people, a constituent people in the Federation of BiH. What happened was, as counterpart Raguž has already mentioned, that later amendments to the Constitution, by the high representatives, had actually come to an end. And there were the key Petric's so-called Amendments and here I would just like to give a few details of what actually happened then and how the equality of the Croatian people is preserved. So first of the House of People, the Federation Parliament which is a key mechanism, i.e. the protection instrument of Croatian rights in the Federation of BiH, the number of Croatian representatives has been reduced from 30 to 17, additional Serbian representatives and representatives have been introduced, so that now instead of having 30 Croats, 30 Bosniaks and a proportional number of others we have 17 Croats, 17 Serbs, 17 Bosniaks and 7 others. The other thing that happened is that these Petric amendments created the possibility that such an electoral law that then the Constitutional Court had partially expired, when it was prescribed that every canton in which a constituent nation has in the legislative body of that canton of its representative, automatically gives one representative of that people to the House of the Peoples of the Federation of BiH. So that's where it happened as the ultimate consequence of that and the abuses that followed that... A canton where there are almost no Croats, gives one representative of the Croats to the House of Peoples. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To make further use of it now, unfortunately, in 2010, when so-called The platform authority, when it was found to be 15-thirds of the 17 that made it possible for the Croats to revote and that legitimate representatives of Croats were expelled from the Federation of BiH authorities. I would also note that it was then to abolish the mechanism of protection of national interest, the vital national interest in the government of the Federation of BiH when, meaning the provision which determined that decisions made by vital national interest were made by consensus, the provision was practically removed, and it was also extremely important for Croats because it could be drawn, let's say, or called upon by one-third of the members of the government, and then it was prescribed in the Constitution that one-third, that at least one-third of the ministers in the government were Croats. While the group of Petric's amendments has been determined that only 5 of the 16 ministers in the government are Croats, thus allowing Croats to revote them again. So that's where you have to be very specific, there are other provisions, but I wouldn't be getting into the details right now. So this is the mechanism that happened at a time when parts of the international community had their other interests in BiH and, unfortunately, Croatia is not enough, as already said, to deal with the problems of the Croatians in BiH. Today's situation is the result of this, so today's situation where BiH is actually at a turning point is the result of this whole geneaze that happened, that from one situation that was well agreed on, means when Croatia signed to a good extent those international agreements that were the basis of the Constitution of BiH and the Federation, later interventions outside are they, in fact, these mechanisms of equality do come, we are now where we are. As is said, the Bosniak people, or some Bosniak representatives, are calling for Turkey, some Serbian representatives are calling for Russia, a question of where are the Croats? The fact is that in this context, Croatia alone and the Croats in BiH can seek only support in the West, for their interests in this way that are important to them and that is why this European path of BiH is important. With the fact that there should not be, as I say, be realistic, and reality says that of all the three constituent peoples of BiH, Croats are the most interested in the survival of Bish as states and its European pathway. So the fact that when you listen to representatives of other constitutive peoples, some of them are for their own entity, while some others are for uniting the state, and the unitaryization of the state, unfortunately, we have seen in many cases, leads to the creation of tensions that very often lead to the collapse of such countries. And in this sense, the great responsibility of the most numerous people in such complex countries, but unfortunately in BiH, representatives of the most numerous people do not always behave in a way that strengthens the stability of the country. In that sense, I'd like to mention the example of Belgium, I know because I lived there and stayed, so Belgium, yes, I guarantee you that Belgium didn't federalize from there in '70. Until today, she would certainly no longer be a single state, so that's a fact. When the Flames and the Valons realized that the division of competences, that everyone took that one part that mattered to them and which could best perform, such a refurbishing allowed Belgium to survive as a state, to reduce tension, to stabilize things. Before that, the tensions were huge, and here I know, I studied at Leven University in Belgium where the tensions were so much that in the late '60s it even divided on a national basis, so French students and teachers went 20 km south and built their own university. That's what happens when someone forces the unitaryization of a state that simply can't be unitary. And in this sense, they did not approve the concessions of some politicians of the most numerous people in BiH, but it still shows that Croats are a guarantee of the survival of BiH and the guarantee of its European path. I'd also like to mention what professor is. Tudjman mentioned, it's federalization. Unfortunately, federalisation has been taboo for a long time, it should not be mentioned, and if someone mentioned it, I would be immediately accused of being a separatist, of wanting to destroy BiH, etc. I'd say the opposite. Just federalisation, meaning logical division of jurisdiction, from local to central level is what can enable better functioning and long-term survival of BiH. After all, it is not just me that I say it, as the EU says. So in the EU, there is one principle mentioned by counterpart Babic here when we talked about the Law on State Property Management, which is the principle of subsidiarity. So the principle of subsidiarity clearly states that everything that needs to be done at local level needs to be done locally. And it also needs to be shared jurisdiction. And so I think that strengthening the role of canton within the Federation of BiH, strengthening the equality of Croats and Croatian representatives in the BiH Parliament, can only in the long term strengthen BiH's stability and reduce these centrifugal forces, which unfortunately come from outside, which are working on its collapse. And in this sense, I also support this agreement, I believe that it is good for BiH, I believe that it provides opportunities for the EU but also for Croatia to be more clearly and directly involved in BiH itself, which is ultimately a Croatian national interest and therefore it is every good and it is also good to have as many of these topics discussed in this House as possible, to discuss with the arguments and to point out once again what is an imperative of Croatian foreign policy and this is the survival of Croats in BiH because survival in BiH... long-term and stable Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83518	Thank you very much. A whole series of replicas will give you a chance to complete your thoughts. You have your first line from Mr. Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83519	Thank you. Comrade Sokol, it should be said openly that the day-to-day arrangement of BiH is the result of a big-force agreement, not the interest of 3 people who have had conflicting interests, and that it is then a compromise which is actually a Leviathan that does not exist anywhere in the world. Croatia, for its part, could do what it did most then, which is to define not only the Federation but also the confederal relationship with the Federation and BiH, and what you said, special relations are not a possibility but are fixed obligations both fixed by the Dayton Agreement and defined as a relationship between Croatia and the Federation and BiH. But unfortunately, since 2000, policy has erased the obligation, although such an agreement remains and functions between Republika Srpska and Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83520	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83521	Thank you very much. Well, yeah, I agree that she's a big-force deal and that's exactly what I said, that we have three people who have different interests. One nation, especially then wanted to take its BiH, and to a large extent it would not be for its survival, representatives of the dominant other people were for unitary BiH and Croats were for equality within BiH. And we have this conflict of interest to a large extent today. But what I was going to say is that this legal framework allowed the protection of the equality of Croats to the level I was talking about that was later denied and that is important because it is important to know that the policy of high representatives of some of them actually made Croats unequal. As for business relations, of course they eat were defined as a legal obligation but there were many possibilities in which to define it in detail but unfortunately, as you said yourself, after 2000, Croatian politics went one way in which she went, unfortunately, to my great regret.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83522	Thank you very much. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83523	Dear fellow Sokol, first of all I must commend you, I think this is your best debate so far in the House, you're really prepared, you've pleasantly surprised me that you can speak so much on this subject. What I would point out here is about European partnership and talking about BiH's European path, we are all about it in general, but I would take advantage of the opportunity here, so what the Slovenians did to us, or Hungarians when we were trying to join the EU, not through some blackmail, but through conversations and negotiations, that everything you talked about and other colleagues in this debate, that we actually manage to do for the benefit first of all for the Croats in BiH. When we talk about the Electoral Law, when we talk about federalisation of BiH, we now have one historic opportunity, as Serbia has a conditional chapter of the 35th recognition of Kosovo, why such a chapter would not have BiH, or why not through negotiations not to say a condition, make the Croats get their guaranteed rights by the Dayton Agreement, for example. A fairer electoral system?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83524	Thank you. Mr. Sokol's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83525	Thank you. First of all, I don't see why you're surprised, it shouldn't be weird, I don't know, you're not from BiH as far as I know, I don't have any special ties with BiH, so I think it's right for the Croatians, the non-BiH citizens, to realize how important BiH is and how much the survival of the Croats in BiH is for all of us, that it's not something that's happening 10,000 miles away. Second, as far as you are concerned about this possibility of negotiations, I agree but exactly respect, the Constitutional Court's decision is part of the famous chapter 23, i.e. the judiciary. So you can put the political wisdom of protecting the interests of the Croats from BiH as something that is part of the general European standards than to point out that as some kind of bilateral issue which is part of the general European standards rather than to highlight it as a bilateral issue and that is what we need to do. It means saying that the unrespected decisions of the Constitutional Court are not in line with the protection of the rights and justice required by the EU from candidate countries and that Croatia is therefore taking certain steps to protect the general European standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83526	Mrs. Love Maximchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83527	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Sokol, here I am pleased that the topics when it comes to the Croatian people in BiH are almost always a unique position here in the Croatian Parliament, but also on the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. It is for us to help and facilitate the course of BiH's EU accession to our knowledge and experience that we have had in pre-accession negotiations. However, the desire is for BiH leadership or people in BiH, but I fear that this is the Croatian people's wish in BiH to join and join the EU and NATO. But what we've all heard through the debates here today, and I'm most concerned about this lack of respect for the Constitutional Court's decision on the electoral law in BiH, and we know that the elections are scheduled for October 7th this year, so here's to look back on that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83528	Thank you very much. Mr. Sokol's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83529	Thank you very much. Yes, I agree that it's a good thing that we have a united view of issues of key national interest, we didn't have one once. I believe and hope we have it right now because it goes beyond some party and ideological division, etc. I'm not going back to the past now that some have spoken or not, but it's good that at least now as far as I can see, there is a general unique attitude. As for the fact that only Croats are for the EU, so here I think you're pretty much right about what we said, so some people are looking north-east, some are south-east. The Croats have no choice, Croats must look towards the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia should use EU mechanisms and the fact that it is a member in the end, to strengthen its role in BiH and in this part of the former unhappy state and to protect the Croats and to allow them this equality. Because it is not only a matter of protecting Croats but of returning to them a part of those mechanisms which unfortunately have been lost or taken away from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83530	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivica Micic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83531	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you, fellow Falcone, for your fine exposure. But I'd say we Croats are shortsighted. We have received Dayton we know that BiH Croats voted for BiH that they wanted BiH and the Croats were expelled 200,000 from the Serbian Republic of course by the Dayton Agreement. Why am I speaking shortsighted? Because we felt that when it happened that we no longer have any need to work and cooperate with them and that we are looking for the interests of Croats who are certainly Banja Luka herself is 50% Croatian area without saying the whole Posavina where 200,000 were expelled. And we forgot it until today you could say it freely, up to these years since we started inside and mentioning that thing. Thank God that we are all in agreement with this problem and that BiH should be seen as a Croatian part, not to pray to anyone but belongs to us, we are the historically oldest people in BiH that we need to know. Of course history is forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83532	Thank you very much. I guess we have to take care of all the Croats in BiH and Catholics and all the others. Thank you very much. Mr. Sokol's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83533	Thank you very much. I am very glad that you reminded of a segment that is not me I think still mentioned here today, which is that it would not be BiH's independence without Croats. So when the referendum was organised, of course, that the Croats did not vote for BiH's independence, there would be no such thing and it should always be repeated when some unfortunately say in Croatia that part of the Croats worked on breaking BiH, etc. As far as Dayton's council policy is concerned, as Professor Tudjman said, we all know that foreign forces have had a significant impact, that the possibilities have been limited, but some positive aspects should be well highlighted, and that is that the only part of BiH that has been returned to the Croats without a fight... occupied by Odjak so that it should also be mentioned as a positive segment. Unfortunately, I am sorry that not all the Croatian regions in Bosnia's Posavina have been returned, which were unfortunately occupied, but here as we know it was not possible in this context. As for this, Croatia needs to work even more and use its EU membership to act in the interest of Croats, I fully agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83534	Thank you. And now Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83535	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol. You gave us a brief recapitulation of protection mechanisms for the equality of Croats in BiH since the Washington Agreements, Dayton, etc., so you told us that by intervention of high representatives including Petric it was reduced. Is what you didn't tell us, and that would beg you, why did the high representatives including Petric do something like that? Did they do it to wrong the Croats or were they perhaps the exponent of another foreign state, so they just did someone's will or maybe because the Croats abused and blocked the functioning of state institutions or some fourth reason, I'm just throwing them in for nothing? We know that the international community protects the weakest in some political process by default, the Croats are the smallest of the three constructive peoples, so it is not clear why the high representative there would have been the representative of the international community to harm the weakest, least, few people in BiH, and these are Croats? Please, if you can tell why?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83536	Time. Thank you very much. Mr. Sokol's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83537	Thank you very much. A good colleague wouldn't speculate too much, I don't sit in those corridors of world politics, but one thing I'd point out. So if we are talking about some situations or actions of part of the Croatian leadership in BiH that may have caused some of it, don't forget when it was a platform. So the platform was much later when the circumstances changed and no one could tell the Croats that they were not cooperative, etc. So I wouldn't speculate what interests they're in, certainly that they didn't do it on their own, but I don't think we should say it and that someone's following this transmission concludes that the Croats did it themselves. I don't think we should do that, but, of course, the fact is that both our rhetoric and the rhetoric of Croats in BIH should always be wise, not bursting passions, but still very clearly define what their national interests are in the BIH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83538	A colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83539	Thank you very much. Comrade Falcon, you gave a brief historical review of the situation in BIH. It's not about the BIH itself, and that's exactly why I don't think the parallel with Belgium is good. You know how in a joke the Belgians themselves say that the only real Belgian is king and no one else. But if we're going to go back into the history and genealogy of Belgium, that's what I'd be given, and that's a minute too short. In fact, the Republic of Croatia wants to help and needs help, and this agreement is aimed at helping the BiH on its way to the EU. But the final decision must be on the political elites, the people of the BiH. So they must make it clear to the EU. We know that Croats are one of the EU's most bitter advocates, and that should be and that is clear why. But what we have to work on is not getting involved in the internal affairs of a country. So, we protect the Croats, the Croatian signature on the Dayton Agreement, as one of the guarantees of the Dayton Agreement, oblige us to protect the BIH and Croats in them. First of all, the initiative comes from within.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83540	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. Answer, Mr. Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83541	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think it's the same gene as Belgium and the BIH, but one and the other are actually created by the great forces, mostly the same great forces, so the parallel isn't completely missed. What I wanted to say with the example of Belgium, that more and more of the national states that have fallen apart, were practically all created because the representatives of the most numerous people tried to act in a way that united the state and actually took as much of what caused the resistance of the few nations. And in that sense, the most numerous nations in the BiH Bosniaks are those who have the greatest responsibility for the survival of such a state. As far as the people are concerned, it's up to them to decide. Yes, the people should decide but the Republic of Croatia has its own mechanisms and as one of the signatories of the Dayton Agreement to protect the interests of Croats in the BIH. And I'm not talking about when we talk about people having to decide. But what people? Who represents the Croatian people in BIH? Is that... the power or its legitimate representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let us allow the first people to choose their representatives, and then we will really wonder about what his position on constitutional arrangement is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83542	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, fellow Sokol, you mentioned the importance of federalization of Belgium, so now it's in this replica or parallel that you made with the BIH. I'd like to deepen that argument from a conversation with the late Wilfred Martins who was just the Belgian prime minister who introduced federalisation in Belgium. He was later also the longtime president of the European People's Party. He once wondered why the problem with the electoral system in BIH, I explained to him, it would be as if the Flames, whom 60% in Belgium were elected by representatives of the Valonians. And he reacted to it, so that would be the end of Belgium. And I just think that on this example, we can see how this parallelism between Belgium and BIH has a lot of space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83544	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83545	Thank you very much. Comrade Stier, I'm glad that someone, I won't say firsthand, but someone from that more internal circle can just share their experience with us and confirm what we're talking about. So, those things that happened in BIH are totally unacceptable, any... The states would lead to a lasting constitutional crisis, which is what the Republic of Croatia is not in the interest of either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why I think we should learn from it, respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but not just the decisions of the Constitutional Court in that part, but watch how to close the other holes. I mean, specifically, the election of members of the BiH presidency, which unfortunately still exists. There's a tendency that some will try to use them again. And in that sense, I think this debate should be seen as an appeal to the survival of the BIH and to the stabilisation of the BIH, not to involve Croatia and to meddle in something that should not be mixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83546	I would like to thank my colleague Falcone for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, we have talked a lot here about the internal political situation in the BIH, we have talked a lot about the situation of Croats within the BIH. You're going to let me just take a quick look at these topics, but first of all, I'd like to talk about this agreement that we should confirm in this high house. So, first of all, we need to realise that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is certainly the EU-based BIH. And not only would I, but as we talked before, this whole place so-called. The Western Balkans should certainly be integrated within the EU and this is the only guarantee of the stability of the development of dialogue in these areas in the long term. Of course, the irrefutable fact is that Croats in the BIH are the main advocates, the main driver, I would dare say so on the European way to the BIH because they clearly see that there are no alternatives. I also see that there are no alternatives. In fact, an alternative if the Eu is not a clear perspective for this part of Europe,... Then they're scared. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia has more than a thousand kilometers of BBiH border, in BiH living ethnic Croats as one of the constituent people, of course, in the interest of the Republic of Croatia is stable BIH. We should certainly work on that, and I believe that we also have a consensus in this high house. But when we talk about the internal political situation in the BiH, it is complicated. And if I believed everyone who had individual discussions or on behalf of the club would just be discussing the genealogy of it, so what led to this situation in the BIH, I don't think that in a few hours of debate we could possibly get into the core. The Dayton Agreement is, first of all, a peace agreement that was not intended long-term to be the Constitution of a functional state. But this is something that we should deal with, therefore, as Croatia, as one of the guarantees of the Dayton Agreement, the stability of the BIH, but also the EU, and finally, I think that both political elites and citizens of BiH are in the best interest of BiH being a functioning state. What we should insist on and must insist on is the respect and functioning of the institutions of the state, the institutions of BiH, in this case, it is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court's ruling on the BiH Election Law is very clear and unequivocal, the Council of Europe has also said its opinion on this, I think that one of the positions of the Republic of Croatia should be exactly insisting on this, just to ensure that Croats are represented evenly within BiH, just so that the political will of the Croats can be clearly articulated in all bodies and the Federation and the Republic of BiH, so that the Croats can express their political stance. In my view, therefore, the Republic of Croatia should be actively working on this and any technical and other assistance that BiH needs on the road to joining the EU, yes, and not only BiH, but I also trust all neighbouring countries and countries of the region. If you ask my personal assessment for the time being in the region, it is clear that three countries have been designated according to the EU. So, I'm not going to put them on some top of the list, let's say it's just that we really feel that there's enthusiasm here, and that's Montenegro, Macedonia and Albania. We also need to provide assistance here because I think that the long-term interest is precisely due to the stability of the region for all these countries to be within the European family. Therefore, Croatia should provide every possible assistance, the hand should absolutely be provided because of the Croats in BiH, but of course also because of the stability of the region itself, but the hand provided should be reached on the other hand. We expect this second hand from BiH, we expect a strong European definition of all peoples within BiH, and of course we cannot agree that Croats in any way are politically, culturally or otherwise suspended. There are a lot of problems here, so if we are going to talk about Mostar, then in BiH as a country facing major internal problems, I don't want to get into them, but what I'm going to get into is that, as I said, our interest is functional, stable BiH, BiH, which is a member of the EU above all, and then I hope NATO will also be able to guarantee long-term stability and sustainability primarily for the Croatian people in BiH and then the stability of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83548	I thank my esteemed colleague Hajdukovic for this debate. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Professor Miroslav Tudjman, here you are, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83549	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me begin at the beginning to join that agreement that this contract should be welcomed because it is the strategic interest of Croatia for several reasons which I now think there is no need to particularly explain. But allow maybe two questions and a few comments. He would repeat something I repeat on such occasions, which is why we call this a law rather than a ratification of an existing or proposed contract. It's just that after five, six years here in Parliament, it's not clear, and I think that should change. On the other hand, one more time to say technical or perhaps one comment, it is said in several points that Croatia will make its knowledge and help of Croatian experts available without needing any means to do so. I think that we should start to appreciate both the knowledge and the work of experts and that we should say how much it costs, now whether it will come from existing items or will be projected in the budget, but it is simply not a good policy. Now, what concerns a little bit of things that are more relevant, it is stressed all the time here today is partner relations, an advisory role, and it is to be welcomed, however, Croatia cannot avoid the double role it is in. On the one hand, it can offer partner relations, a clear thing on the condition that they are partner relations and that they are reflected on the other hand in the same way, but Croatia is also an EU member who will then assess in the other role whether this BiH meets the conditions to come into these. Therefore, if in these partnership relations we will not stress from the outset which conditions BiH has failed to meet, and when the vote will hold certain delays if this occurs, then it will be said that we are leading a double policy or that we are not correct or that we are not acting correctly. Therefore, in this respect, we should be far more precise and highlight one and the other dimension of this possible role and through this one that is defined in this Agreement. Already said here, counterpart Hajdukovic used the term but otherwise it is used that BiH is not a functional state or in another termology that has no self-sustainable development. And that is one of the reasons why, among other things, BiH is not only on the EU's entry list, but if that list exists then somewhere at the end of that list, in other words, we should care that BiH enters the EU as soon as possible, or European integration, but in order to achieve this, as I have already said today, we should also advocate a solution. Not a solution for us to give, to impose BiH on what to look like, but to advocate the values to which this solution should be sought, these are two different things. And there's already been a lot of talk here today, and that's the only solution that's been made is for BiH to settle on federal grounds. Federalism models, or federal arrangements, are different. We finally know that there are no two countries in the world that have the same arrangement, there are always, no matter what we classify them in two or three categories, but mostly there is no such solution, so we need to advocate the idea of federalism, the Federation, the federalization, whatever it is you want us to use, whatever term you want, but it's an approach. The difference in how this approach is now, as it is estimated, is large compared to what was 15 or 25 years ago. Today and in the theory of international relations and the discussion of the international order is understood, it comes to the conclusion that the Federation is something that strengthens, not breaking down certain states, and it should take over from both theorists and what we heard, as Mr Stier said, practicalists say, experience solutions, and that is what we would have to advocate as a solution for BiH in order to make sure that there are three constituent peoples in BiH, that we have come to discuss the models of how these constituent peoples in practice are equal and in this sense I think we should look for a solution. Another comment, in Article 4(3), says that within the Joint Committee, the responsible party will also consider and find solutions to issues that may arise in the implementation of this Treaty, which do not concern issues governed by special agreements between the Republic of Croatia and BiH. In this context, we should also warn our commission and work to remember both the Dayton and Washington Treaties and the agreements, because they, regardless of not being practiced, are still on paper, can still be used, therefore it is also a mechanism on which to ask for solutions to be respected, to respect the rules, to respect the standards that, as we have heard today, when in the case of Croats in BiH are reduced to their damage by high representatives from 2000 to here. And in this context, I think it should be suggested, i.e. make sure that this contract is respected and that it is finally implemented, going in this direction for Croats to become an equal people and BiH to become a functional state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83550	I thank Professor Tudjman. Next debate, respected counterpart Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83551	Thank you very much, Vice President. Since I was speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I would not repeat what I said, but I would like to remain in my individual debate on one element that is important to me and I think it is important for all of us. On the way to the EU, of course, the EU, and we in Croatia, heard in many discussions today, we insist on the rule of law, on the rule of law, that is to say, implementing all those legal acts from the Constitution to decisions of the Constitutional Court in BiH, which ensures the equality of the Croatian peoples with the other two constituent peoples. When you come to the EU based on the rule of law, of course you expect to get unison and strong support for such a thing, and you expect the EU to be the one who will firmly pressure all political forces in BiH to ensure the application of its Constitution, constitutional decisions, the Constitutional Court and thus show that they are the rule of law, especially when it comes to issues falling within the human, political rights corpus, human rights. But that's not the case, and we all testify to that. When you come to the EU with such a request, they say we want democracy, but democracy has no ethnic omens. Democracy is actually based on an individual and each individual has the right to be represented in Parliament, it is the right of all EU citizens, not related to certain ethnicities. So they give you some examples of practice, so let's say, we have a Croatian father who is married to a Serbian woman, their children are declared as others because they are from a mixed marriage, from a Croat father, a sister married to a Bosniak whose children are also declared as others. And then it turns out that on the key that only Croats vote for Croats, Serbs for Serbs or Bosniaks for Bosniaks, the family cannot vote for its father who is the candidate in the elections because they are not declared members of the Croatian people. These are the arguments we are facing and to which we must have an answer if we are to convince the EU that the solutions we propose are the right solutions. I'd ask the government to take these arguments seriously, too. What I am trying to convince my EU counterparts that there are ethnic quotas, national quotas in BiH, as we know in the presidency, we have in the House of Peoples and the Federation and the Assembly of BiH. They did not fall from Mars, although all of us can say, democracy and political rights are every man's rights and each must have the same right to implement them in practice, ethnically, or national quotas in BiH are part of the rest of the war that was, the mistrust created among the nations, and while this mistrust exists, there is simply no other way for people to realize and protect their interests as a collectiveity, as a people, but through representation through ethnic or national quotas. Every nation in the BIH has its fears. Simply, they are all trapped in these fears, and as long as those fears exist, there will have to be such national quotas in the bodies of the BiH authorities. The Croats certainly fear that they will be revoted, that someone else will dominate with them since their number is one that does not ensure that one man – one vote will succeed in realising its interests in making decisions. Serbs are in fear that any constitutional or political change in the system currently in place can lead to a reduction in Republika Srpska's prerogatives and are therefore willing to go into a new political or perhaps even more political military conflict. The Bosniaks are afraid that any further reorganisation of the state or Banja Luka and its policy, including the policy of calling for a referendum on the secession of Republika Srpska from the BiH, including a referendum on non-compliance with the decisions of institutions including the Constitutional Court of BiH, leads to the bih breaking up and that it could result in the break-up of the BiH. So that's the fear the Bosniaks live in. Everyone lives in one of their fears, and as long as those fears exist, there will be national quotas in the electoral bodies. Of course, though, such a situation is not and must not be eternal. It just points out that in BIH things don't work the way they operate in some other European countries where there are no national quotas in the highest authorities, such as the BiH presidency. This seems extremely important to me to warn precisely that the national quotas agreed, agreed not to reduce the right of democratic or political human right of any resident and citizen of the BIH, but that they are simply a reflection of the political situation in the BIH resulting from the war and the mistrust of the people of the constitutive one another. We still have a situation today that occasionally when certain political leaders of one of the constitutive people are not satisfied with a certain political decision that is right, they begin to frighten their people as baba-horns with two other constituent peoples and a harmful influence that such a decision can cause on their own people. This encourages the fear and homogenisation of their own people and blocks decisions that may be really in the interest of citizens in the public interest of the BIH. Therefore, what the Croatian Government should explain in international contacts to the EU, which we all should remain in our contacts, to advocate that all BiH citizens have full political rights, including the right to vote, to legitimately elect their representatives, that there is no ethnic sign of one nation should not be more full than the other, but while we have this kind of complex political situation in the BIH that is the result of war and historical heritage, mistrust among the nations, we will simply have to have mechanisms to protect the interests of each of the people, and thus national quotas in certain election bodies of the BIH.. This will not go away until the mistrust of these same nations is gone. Until then, every nation will not be certain that even without a national quota its interests will be respected, protected and promoted in the common state of BiH. That no one will endanger the existence or identity of any of the people without national quotas in the electoral bodies. Until that happens, national quotas will be needed as one of the instruments of protection of the identity and interest of each of the people. That's what I wanted to say about this issue. The second question is the very implementation of this agreement, which we will ratify today when we vote. He's indicative. So, without one annex of concrete measures that the Republic of Croatia is ready to offer to the BIH because of the joint realization, it won't mean much. It'll just be a dead letter on paper. So, what needs to be developed now in the government are concrete measures that go into various government resolutions, which Croatia has made available as technical development aid in terms of meeting the requirements for EU BISH membership that we are willing to make available to them and thus organise within our administration real people and resources that will act in a concrete way. So that everything doesn't stay expensive just in nice words. So that's what's expected after the ratification of this agreement. A concrete annex with concrete proposals for measures we want to offer BIH, offer them and ask them to choose what they want from it, and then organise within our administration of people, the resources that will really implement it and do it because believe me, we have lots of nice suggestions, lots of nice intentions, but when it comes to that particularisation, when you need Mark, Peru, Antu, Maria, Ivan, Maris to realize it then you turn around and you see that there are none because you need all of them for day jobs in the Croatian government for what they do there in their workplace. Therefore, you will either hire new or redistribute jobs to free people who are already engaged in their jobs so that they can conduct certain tasks to help the BIH, and in the context of the cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with the Council of Ministers, respectively, two states. This will give a concrete note to our words, making us truly credible and one more thing I want to warn you about. Professor Tudjman also emphasized that, every thing we think the BIH didn't do well, should be warned in time so that tomorrow when the Republic of Croatia votes on whether or not the BIH is ready for entry, it turns out to be a political problem. So, say you didn't do this well, we offer you our help, but know without a solution to it, without achieving the standards needed to join the EU, you won't enter. But that's what they need to be told in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83552	I thank my colleague Klisovic. We have one replica, Honorable Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83553	Thank you. counterpart Klisovic, Europe knows individual collective human rights. This is about BiH that collective rights are not fulfilled according to this, national quotas are not the result of war but the cause of war because collective rights were not secured in the beginning. And on that side we need to be far more careful when we talk about democracy, human rights because every country solves these rights in a specific way and there are always certain shades regardless of how we put them in the same categories... And on the other hand, frankly, I'm very surprised that you're ethnically and nationally equating, you're using it as synonyms, and that's not even in madness, which is why, because this is not about ethnic rights, but about national rights, and the nation is not only a matter of origin, but also a community of hearts as defined, so these examples simply don't work that you said mixed marriages because on the one hand they're borderline and on the other hand... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83554	I thank the esteemed Professor Tudjman. Answer, colleague Klisovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83555	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to identify ethnically and nationally, but we all know that, apart from the national nations in BiH, living and ethnic groups, I didn't want to leave anyone out and not identify, that's the difference. We are talking about collective rights, and you are right, but what I wanted to warn you about in the debate that in the EU, democracy is constantly not ethnically defined, that is, they say ethnically, or we will say nationally or as you wish, but just to understand how the situation within the EU is understood in BiH and why there is no support that we think should go without any problems. We need to understand our partners in the Union are thinking and what is their problem if we want to get their support to change the electoral law in BiH. That's what this is about. Because if we just push our own and one Germany doesn't understand it, it pushes its own, then we simply won't be able to achieve those political goals that we set. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83556	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic for his reply. On behalf of the promoter, Ms. Zdravka Busic, the State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83557	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just want to thank the gentlemen for the debate that was very, very constructive and I'm kind of glad that it was a big and interesting agreement and that we discussed it this way because that's actually what we're showing the seriousness of the subject. Of course we don't have enough time to answer everyone now, I will literally study everything, all your remarks and answer here as Mr. Klisović and Mr. Tudjman and Mr. Sokol and others, so here I thank you once again for a constructive debate and, please, always keep in mind that this topic is very serious, which is also the question and survival of the Croatian people in BiH to remain constitutional and to find its place and, of course, let us never forget that BiH is a country and Croatian peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83558	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs. Zdravki Busic, for this final statement. We've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mrs. Zdravki Busic, for the reasons of this final proposal. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83559	Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European Partnership, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 235, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European Partnership, please vote. I find it unanimous, with 79 votes for, please, my colleague, to pass the Law to confirm the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83560	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Croatian Radio Television, first reading, P.Z. No. 252 It is proposed by the Living Wall and SNAGA Club on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information and Information and Media. The government delivered two opinions. Is it possible that the proposaler's representative would like to give an additional explanation? We don't have an proposer. It's beautiful. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, thank you very much. Does the government's representative want to give an additional explanation? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83561	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to amend the Law on HRT. The basis of this law is to change the method of charging the HRT subscription, i.e. the HRT fee, because it is not an HRT subscription in a classical sense, since the fee is charged on the device and not necessarily on the viewing of the canal, and it is already in itself a big problem for reasons because many citizens defiance that they have to pay something called HRT and with HRT they have nothing to do with it. It is often known that citizens, whether as natural or legal persons, have to pay a HRT fee even when they do not have a TV receiver, say on a vehicle, on a laptop or some other medium through which HRT can be viewed. HRT tax costs 80 kn and is the subject of many obstacles primarily for reasons because many citizens today simply cannot pay that HRT fee. It's just too much for them. And here we would have to imagine what kind of society we live in, when hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens can't pay a relatively modest amount. And it's perfectly normal that they can't pay because they can't even pay the basic directories. They can't pay for electricity, water and heating, so it's quite clear that they can't pay any kind of, say, luxury like HRT tax. In particular, I mean the pensioners, the disabled, the social cases, who sometimes live with incomes and less than 1000 kn, and simply their HRT tax is too high a burden. Since they cannot pay the HRT fee, not that they do not want to, but can not, every year, hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens get the benefit from HRT, and the performance, unfortunately, becomes permanent, because on top of the HRT fee, the costs of the procedure are increasing multiplely. So it could happen that someone who hasn't followed the HRT fee in three months. gets an account from a public notebook at 2, 3 and more thousands of kunas. While he pays the debt, and cannot pay it by some large amount, possibly a few hundred kuna per month, in the meantime there are more monthly HRT fees and we are spinning around in circles and people, essentially HRT fees, due to HRT fees are blocked 10 years and over. I don't know if the MPs are meeting with the citizens, I believe some meet, I believe some have a context with them. And if you meet with these citizens, then you know how desperate they are, because of the work they're getting from HRT. It might be a good idea, if only once, that MPs don't have time to communicate with those who chose him, to visit the FINA for at least one visit to the performance counter, so that you can see what's the order there and how many citizens are struggling with those costs. The living wall suggests that the way the HRT charges are charged be changed in a way that is no longer charged by the citizens, but paid directly from the budget. In particular, we predicted that 0.7 of the planned budget fees were directed towards HRT, public television and radio, and that would amount to €900000 in 2018. Something a little less than it is now collected through HRT fees. However, since it is a budget percentage, in order for the budget to grow and we have a trend of growth, in the last two years, it is likely to grow this year, over time there would be an increase in the amount allocated to HRT, which means that HRT itself would have more resources than it has now. It should be said that HRT is essentially in great conflict with citizens, the daily household is visited by their inspectors who behave like some gendarmes like some utility directors, who want to get into people's apartments, want to write them up for fraud, beat them up, and then send them these performances and blockades and people are really mad at HRT. And if all this was free, if it were free, people not only would not be angry, but everyone would want to sign up, to watch HRT and so on, not only to stop the conflict, but to have a higher view of HRT, which is just defeated right now. It is particularly devastating to watch the information program, where less than 10% of citizens watch HRT, and even the most watched shows such as Sundays at 2 p.m. fail to achieve a level of ratings greater than 10%. Recently, there was one poll on the Index portal, where even citizens wondered if HRT should be abolished, meant not to charge, but the whole TV and even 73% of citizens said it should be abolished. Someone on this public television and in general in this Visko home should imagine that public television has collapsed to such low branches, that even Croatian citizens are asking for it to be abolished. And it's logical to ask, because they see that HRT has 3,000 employees and defeated ratings, while on the other hand some commercial TV like New TV or RTL that have 15 times fewer employees, have a more quality program and far higher ratings than HRT. It is also important to note that Croatia's tax is one of the highest in Europe, even quantitatively, especially qualitatively, which means, when comparisons of salaries and pensions and the standard of citizens with other countries' standards. We pay 960 kn each year to HRT, which means that for one lifetime, we assign practically 70-80 thousand kuna, i.e. that the average working in Croatia must work for a year and three months, just to pay for HRT. And what is interesting is we pay more than the Norwegians, the Swedishs, the British, the Irish, the French, the Italians, the Czechs, the Israelis and the Poles. It is better not to mention countries in the neighbourhood at all because we would know that, for example, in Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia or Macedonia, the annual fee is only a few hundred kunas. The proposal proposed by the Living Wall is not essentially original, it represents nothing new compared to what the trend in Europe is. Some countries have already abolished the fee from citizens, say last year Romania did, and this year Denmark did. Recently, there was a referendum in Switzerland where citizens decided whether or not to pay a television fee. In our general situation on HRT, it is tragic that there are no commercials out there on public television, and we are practically just looking at ads, 75% of public television revenues are spent on the production of the programme and 25% on wages. I should even say that we spend 25% on the program, and 75% on wages, something quite the opposite. Should we say that HRT is not at all independent of its program? It politically serves one party to promote its alleged successes, but unfortunately it is a very bad cultural programme, an educational programme and a scientific programme. You will rarely see some objective public debate on HRT, e.g. on the EU, on NATO, on conflict, on Israeli-Palestinian conflicts, on GMOs or something like that. There the same main stream of truth persists, and in fact the HRT, not only does it not fulfill its purpose, but serves to fool the people. I would once again invite MPs to accept our way of financing HRT fees in order to stop an executive massacre carried out by the ruling majority together with public notebooks and lawyers and to have better dialogue and better relations together. For one example, I would like to read to you one letter that Croatian citizens write to HRT and what answers they receive. Here's a letter: "Respected, due to the difficult financial situation, I am not currently able to fulfil the outstanding obligations for HRT tax. So I ask you not to start me new errands and thus threaten my family's existence. I note that by now you've sent me eight executions in the amount of $11,540, and from that you've managed to charge me 4970. Please don't send me any more errands at my due time, because that's what you're literally throwing my family on your knees. Please find a way and allow me to pay the remaining debt to the wars or write off part of the debt due to the high cost of the execution. In advance, thank you for your understanding." Listen to the HRT response that takes from citizens a billion and 200 million kuna a year: "To your request that we release you from the obligation to pay the due debt due to the difficult material situation, unfortunately we must inform you that we are unable to satisfy your request since it is a legal obligation in accordance with Article 34. The law on HRT that anyone who owns or owns a radio or television receiver, or another device for receiving a radio or audiovisual programme in the area of the Republic of Croatia, is obliged to pay HRT a monthly fee." Does this sound humane to you? Does this sound human to you, is this a social state according to the first point of the Constitution we intend to achieve? Do you really think it is necessary for Croatian families to be on their knees in order to pay the charges for HRT fees? Is it true that in this House where some MPs are reportedly calling for a conscience, there are no between 77 hands or two hands that would simply say because of their conscience that this way of collection should be stopped? And I already know in advance what the representatives of the government will now say, which will be said by members of the ruling majority, they will say that nothing can be done, that they will solve this problem in the future, that they will write their own law, but for the time it is, and that will be means never, the performances and the blockades continue, the eviction continues, poverty of citizens, the poverty of children, all thanks to the insolence of those who could very easily solve this problem if there was a good will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83562	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for this debate. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83563	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture with an associate. We have before us a bill of law of the Living Wall and the power of the HRT. It is fortunate that we have not heard on behalf of the promoter of all 30 minutes of such demagogue measures as the Living Wall that is clearly being placed over all of us, and then finally using words like the massacre of the majority, the hate speech tries to talk about freedom of the media in the Republic, but the citizens of course hear it, we witnessed it this morning and on the Media Committee, one inadmissible and undemocratic behavior. With the aim of abolishing the TV fee as proposed by the law with the sole objective, the law unfortunately does not offer systematic access, nor achieves its goal at all. Although it will certainly be considered in the future from the Ministry of Culture, the new law on HRT also represents a legally unfounded proposal, but also damages not only to HRT, but to a whole series of entities and the general public. So this proposal would assess not only the populist demagogue failure. Let's see what with the other countries to which you are calling, the Europeans in their proposal, I'll tell you that in Norway the introduction of a Finnish model into which a special tax tax has been introduced, in Sweden the introduction of a Finnish model, Great Britain, Ireland, Portugal, France, is also being considered, has been introduced. Switzerland also, in the referendum, you said it was a referendum, but not what was its result. The result was that citizens voted to pay a higher fee than they are paying today, in order to ensure their public transparency of the public service. Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Albania, Greece, Poland, etc. Introduces and there is a payment of the fee. It is not true that in Europe, the trend is to abolish TV fees, and as for payments existing in the Republic of Croatia, it should be said that it is only a mechanism, which goes through HRT, but a large number of organisations lie "on this fee". For example, the company of Croatian composers, Croatian audio visual centre, media pluralism fund and a whole series of local and radio TV stations, is financed from the fee paid to HRT, not to mention that HRT directly funded the Croatian Symphony Orchestra, the tambourish and jazz orchestra and thus employs hundreds of musicians and people working in culture and promotes the identity of the Republic of Croatia. Funding in this way also enables the independence of the public media, and it produces in fact all the contents, for all groups of Croatian societies, and of course is produced and the fun and educational and religious and scientific programme, which is not always intended to be commercial, to be the most visible. And of course, as I said later, before and said, all these programs are actually part of Croatia's national identity. With the proposal that HRT is financed from the budget, 0.7%, which is approximately 900 million kuna, detachment, you propose an even greater impact of the state on public service, but also likely layoffs on HRT and difficult working conditions. As I said, there are also different tax collection models in the European countries, but there is not one in which there are no charges, in which there is no financing of public service, and public service, for example, HRT cannot be financed only from the state budget, nor from commercial funds only, because then it is not public sense, of course, nor would it be topics of public importance and public programmes, which such a public service as HRT should be produced. In that sense, the HDZ Club will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83564	I thank my esteemed colleague, Putica, for this debate. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club, I apologize, on behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83565	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So we're in favour of changing the way HRT charges are paid, we're not in favour of eliminating television, and I don't know, the failure of the program, by the way, we're in favour of improving the program. I'm sure the program would be better for citizens to have a relationship with HRT if there weren't any of these performances. In Croatia, 330,000 people have been blocked. Every year 100 grand worth, up to 200 grand goes to HRT. The representative of the HDZ shall represent the executive. It's her democratic right. I represent people who are finished and blocked. I represent those citizens, those 73% of citizens who said on the Index portal that HRT should be abolished, not just the HRT tax. Citizens have the right to hear. They can figure out who's on their side and who's on the side of big capital. Go to the Tax Administration, ask which people are the richest in Croatia and you will see that they are just the executives. So the executives, who have so far drawn from citizens of tens and tens of billions of kunas, should continue to continue their interest, and the citizens whose families have been thrown on their knees, they still have to suffer it, simply because some group of Borg decided in 2010. And of course we have the right to doubt after all that we've seen, that the Executive Law has been written by the executives themselves, surely it hasn't been written by the poor by the Executive Law, because we see by the results, to whose benefit they go. And of course, we can also ask ourselves who in this case, who and the last days of the flash, how much has gone into the political structures, whose campaigns have been paid for public money, who can come on television whenever he wants, and who can't and when it's the ultimate necessity, that's what everything should be talked about. So I repeat once again, let's protect Croatian citizens from the performance, and especially from HRT because it's bizarre amounts of 80 kuna and if someone can't pay 80 kuna, I don't think anyone would be ashamed of 80 kunas to have them so they don't pay them, people just don't have, they don't. 100,000 people in Croatia have no pension, 180 000 people don't even have 1,000 kuna pensions, many people are unemployed, those who work often work for a minimumer, for small wages, have to support children, family, can't pay the director's fee and only the director's bills come for 1,000, 1500 kuna for heating per month. I call you to humanity. Do something to help our citizens. If you don't know the citizens who are completed by HRT, here I will introduce you, meet you, talk to them, introduce you to Mr. Drazen Hammer from Strukovec who receives a social fee of 580 kuna and 190 kuna each month must pay for the HRT fee, I will introduce you to Mr. Jovanovic who came to my doorstep, on my doorstep where I live and cried 15 minutes at my door for the HRT fee, for the sake of the performance that has been killing him for 15 years, if you want me to meet you, but you're not interested. You want to know that it's only good for you, that HRT celebrates HDZ's successes, a growth that doesn't exist, that it creates an illusion that everything is okay and that it's stupiding people with one truth, a one-sided picture of reality. That's the way it is. Of course, you're going to say that I'm wrong, but in the end it doesn't matter what you and I think, but what matters is what those who chose us here are looking at. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83566	I thank my esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjc. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83567	Thank you very much. Comrade Bunjac, I agree that HRT is a public... there must be, however, in Croatia public... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] is, and you said that in essence, the PR exposes the ruling political parties and it is now visible both by the commentators and the way this HRT applies, and also by this Parliament when the points of opposition are. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm very interested because this HRT 4 is now transferring this debate of yours and is going to transpose this law that follows behind, of course, who knows in what hours of genetically modified organisms. Of course I'm going to vote for this law because a lot of people expect it, and the state has money, there's an increased surplus, we see that the messages are being sent that the money has, therefore the public serum is also being financed from the budget, it's funded by the citizens, it's a simple logic because the citizens are paying in the budget, therefore we have no problem, but it's unfortunate that the service that the PR agency pays... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83568	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83569	Thank you very much, Reverend Bull. I think that there is a consensus simply that in Croatia you know who can speak on HRT whenever he wants and who can't. Here we have now, let's say, imagine the quality of that program where we heard yesterday that in England a divorced Mulatka is getting married, please be careful what level it is. Or, say, I used to listen in sports that she was a hairy tennis player. So you tell me what a primitive level that is and what we pay to listen to such nonsense, such racism to a minority on something that should be called public television. What's next, how are they gonna write people next? Nose-haired, hump-back, etc. I mean it really, it's such a dictionary should have been overcome 500 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83570	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on HRT, first reading P.Z. No. 252 Proposer of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft Act amending the Law on HRT is not accepted, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 2 abstentions and 1 vote against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83571	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Temporary Maintenance, First Reading, P.Z. No. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The Constitution of the My fellow Son, I'd like to ask you nicely until I invite you to sit in your seat. Thank you very much. It is proposed by the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Government delivered its opinion. I call upon the representative of the proposed colleague, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, to give us an explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83572	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's today already in a tiny hour, half eight is, we have on the agenda the Law on Temporary Maintenance, I have it here from the NN, the law is not long, there are only 41 articles, on several pages, but it's very important for children who are due to divorced parents or similar circumstances found themselves in a situation to get alimony and have big problems with getting alimony. Let's move in line, please. I would like to say that according to the constitutional provisions of the Republic of Croatia, in particular the protection of family and children, we are talking about the constitutional category. The responsibility for childcare is the duty of parents, but it is also the obligation of society and the state to ensure conditions for their quality growth and development. According to data published by the State Statistics Institute, in the Republic of Croatia, poverty and social exclusion indicators for 2016 the rate of children growing in poverty of 0-17 years is 19.9%, let's say about 20% of children growing in poverty in the Republic of Croatia, or every fifth child in the Republic of Croatia is growing in poverty, which is about 7% higher than the European average. In particular, children living in households with a number of children were affected by statistics. The law on temporary maintenance of a lex specialis that regulates the problem we're talking about today, it's from 2014. Before that, such restraint was part of the Family Law. It speaks of the fact that in the event of a failure to comply with the legal obligation of abstention by a parent who is obliged to support a child, in the event that it is not made likely that grandparents by that parent do not contribute to the child's restraint, so he has the right to temporary restraint of 50% of the legal minimum of restraint, according to the law, and that is his actual purpose. So the idea is when I can't, when a child, and we're talking about this as a child's right, which is in the law itself, when it can't be charged by parents, then the state jumps in, if the parent starts paying again or finds himself in a material position to pay, then the state interrupts his intervention, if the parent finds himself in a situation, or the person, it's called the legal person with whom the child doesn't live, if he finds himself in a situation that he can't pay, then the mechanism is reactivated and so cumulatively up to 3 years. The temporary maintenance decision shall be adopted by the competent social care centre, as defined by the law, and the funds for temporary maintenance shall be the expenditure of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. According to the 2018 RH budget, this is the current year, the estimated amount of 18 million kuna, which is a reduced amount compared to last year when there were 21 million and 800 000 kuna for this fee. Croatia only settles 50% of the legal minimum of maintenance, in the event of non-payment by the payer, which at the time of application of this law amounts to half of the next amounts defined by the decision on the minimum cash amount. So for a child up to 6 years old, 17% of the average salary is 966 kuna, which means half of it. For a child from 7 to 12 years, 20% of the average salary, which is 1137 kuna, and the minimum fee is half of it. For a child 13 to 18 years 22% of the average salary or 1250 kuna, or a child would get half that amount. The funds in the range of 483 kuna, 625 kuna monthly depend on the child's age, are not nearly enough to achieve child restraint, a dignified life, and according to all data, just by increasing financial amounts for underage children can contribute to reducing child poverty rates as the most sensitive groups in society. Since the State, as stated above, provides for a minimum amount of child restraint, there is no obstacle to that amount being the amount of compensation under the Interim Restraint Act. So this minimum fee is prescribed by a decision, but we are giving half that fee. Then why don't we call those sexes a minimum fee? It's not very logical, but it's a practice. The increase in the amount by which the Republic of Croatia is undermining the amount of the legal minimum of maintenance and not just 50% is the basis of this proposal. It's an extension of the right to compensation for the child's adulthood. So, I said before, you can use the state's help cumulatively if the parent doesn't pay up to 3 years. We're extending this right to 18 years. This right actually existed by 2014 when it was probably abolished because of the crisis and the austerity measures of the then SDP government. We see this as a major contribution also to demographic policy, social policy. We also know from the experience of parents that these amounts are too small, not much can be done with them, and that they need a long legal process from the one in the divorce, to the one in the social care center itself. I'll talk about it later. In order to implement this Act, it is necessary to provide 18 million kuna from the State budget for 2018. If we know the state has secured... millions for social benefits this year, this 18 million is about half of that amount, so it wouldn't certainly be a problem to redistribute or take out of budget supplies, and if not, at least for the next year, that 18 million can be installed into those 3 and a half billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Republic of Croatia, as I said, there are about 200 thousand poor children, so I'd like to say something about statistics. So one of the most endangered groups is definitely children of 0-17 years. In male children, it means about 20.8% of the risk, even more than 21% of female children. In Croatia, we also have a relatively large number of divorces, so in 2014 there were 6570 divorces, of which with abstentioned children 3950, while the recordr in divorces had just passed the year 2016 with slightly over 7,000 divorces. The more divorces, the more children who will receive alimony, the more children who will not receive alimony because of carefree parents, usually means that the state has to jump in. So our legal solution works on three things. It works that it extends the period from cumulatively 3 years to 18 years, as it used to be. No more half of the fee is obtained but the full fee is also obtained, the right would be exercised by persons who have residence in the Republic of Croatia, but are not citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We know because of these migrations, as the government actually calls them, we have cases of course, where people come back, so we have cases where children who come back with them have, say, foreign citizenship, and they live here. Why would it be cut off from children who are not foreign citizens would certainly not be a great cost to the budget since there are not many such cases. Costs are estimated at 18 million kuna. The government's proposal states that this is a lump sum. Yes, but we can't estimate as you can't estimate or anyone next year's divorce, or how much alimony demand will be, or how many cases there will be of foreign citizenship children, it's simply impossible to estimate, but we've estimated at 18 million kuna. Of course, in the rebalancing of next year's corrections, it can be very easy to fix. It should also be said that this is the money that will come back because in the existing law, and we haven't changed that part because it's good, there's a provision that the state pays, but at the end of the year the state is actually looking for actually it's an irresponsible parent, of course there's a situation where the parent is in a situation where he can't really pay, so he's charging from such a person the amount. It is a mechanism prescribed in the last articles of the Law. When problems arise in the family, when the situation is ahead of divorce, the first step is, of course, an attempt to calm down, the mediation at the social care center with the presence of psychologists and social workers. Some times it works, the family continues to function, or marriage, we're talking about marriage here. When there is a divorce case, however, there are two options in the civil department of the municipal court. Or a lawsuit through a lawyer which means divorce or an agreed breakup on the basis of a proposal. That leads to a final verdict. As a rule, the same hearing in these same processes also addresses the question of alimony and provides an executive document that ensures that if a person who has not received children, therefore, that he supports them to live with it, that he pays for the alimony. If alimony is paid, in which case great, everything works, parents keep an appointment. However, if it does not work, this Law is activated. If the alimony is not paid, the next step is at the social care centre to reach a settlement again, the divorced parties meet at the table again and try to agree on why payment has come to an end and find a way to resolve it. If after that everything's okay, great. If we don't, we're going back to the law and we're actually talking business. The judgment and the executive document I mentioned earlier are carried out on the FINA, then, under the existing law, leaves a period of 3 months trying to charge that amount, therefore, trying to charge that amount in favour of the child. If that amount is not fully charged from zero kuna to a third, fifth or any amount, in that case, if less than the minimum fee is removed from the account with a FINA eyewitness and with a FINA confirmation is re-entered to the Social Care Centre for the purpose of achieving the right to a minimum fee and there is an activation of the Suscus of this law. At the end of this long journey that can last for months, and we know there are cases and longer people living without money, the child doesn't get all that time in the worst case scenario, and when he gets, he gets only 400 to 600 full, or that's half of that prescribed minimum fee. So our amendment to this law suggests that instead of three months waiting for only one month, is one month enough to see if anyone has income or no income. After the month passed, this legal procedure would continue and would go to the state's concession. Another thing I said about extending this right from three years of age to up to 18 years old. We'd say that, it's an injustice if the child doesn't get the money he's supposed to get and the state jumps in, but after they're exhausted for three years then obviously it's no longer an injustice for a child to get anything. That's what I'd say if it was even counter-constitutional. Let the ministry ask itself how these children will function, as long as children do not grow up, they should be entitled to this compensation and not half of it, but full compensation. The third thing that we are changing, so once a year social care centre collects information about an alimony bond, the welfare centre sees how to charge for it because the state had to give its funds, it is now prescribed in Article 27. We predict the extension of this concept, so the person with whom the child lives so that it is defined that the category will in good faith provide the social care centre with information about the irresponsible other partner and thus deny him the procedure and facilitate his work. And the fourth thing, this proposal extends the proposal if the child is not a Croatian citizen and has a residence in the Republic of Croatia has the right to make this fee. Our bill is unfortunately limited to European economic space, meaning the EU, Switzerland and other countries of European economic space. Why? Because there is a legal instrument called the European Executive Order, so you can, it is a matter of international private right to exercise that right in that space, and with some countries that are not part of that space difficult. So we prescribed for absolutely all cases would probably be inconclusive, noting it here in the debate. I'd like to say to the end that I'm calling on the ministry and the parliamentary majority to bring about changes to this bill, if you don't make this one of ours, then bring it in as soon as possible. These days, we are reading in the media today, so 150,000 new children's allowances and 150,000 children will receive about 100 kuna more because the income price has been raised from 50 percent to 70%, according to which the funds are available. Let us also consider those 18 or slightly more millions of kunas and children who have to live, if they are already victims of irresponsible parents, let us not be victims of state and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83573	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government, perhaps? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I welcome the State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Youth and Social Policy, Mrs. Maria Pleikos. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected colleagues, Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83574	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are facing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Provisional Restraint Act. This Proposal for a Law on Temporary Maintenance provides statistics which are a key indicator of poverty in 2016. The rate of children growing in poverty by these indicators is unfortunately higher than the EU average, but what I usually stress in my current debates, this government is socially sensitive to the most vulnerable groups of society, especially children. They are our potential and have always been their values to us in the first place, and right after she took responsibility to lead this country, this government has come to grips with solving them. But let's get back to the law. The Institute of Temporary Maintenance was introduced by the '98 Family Law. the year after which it was prescribed that the child has the right to temporary detention if the parent who, on the basis of a decision of power or a settlement concluded before the Social Care Centre, is not obliged to contribute to the child's maintenance does not fulfil his obligation for more than three months. At that time, the Social Care Centre was obliged to propose a second parent or, under official duty, to provide temporary maintenance funds until the parent of the obligor begins to fulfil its obligations. Amendments and additions to the 2007 Family Law stipulated that the child is entitled to temporary detention if the parent does not comply with his obligation for more than six months uninterrupted or if he has not paid for interruptions within a period of seven months, the centre is obliged to propose a second parent or, under official duty, to make a decision on temporary detention. The adoption of the new Family Law of 2014 deleted the provisions on temporary abstention and the right to temporary abstention governed by the Interim Restraint Act, which has been in force since 1 September 2014. The right to temporary detention has a Croatian citizen who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia, if a parent who does not live with a child does not fulfil his maintenance obligation on the basis of... documents, and if it seems likely that grandparents per parent who does not live with a child do not fulfil their obligation or are unable to meet its minimum maintenance needs prescribed by law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under the partial failure of obligations, it is understood that the abstention obligation does not pay the maintenance rate at least in the amount laid down by law as the amount of temporary abstention. The right shall be recognised if the obligor does not fulfil his obligation for more than 3 months from the initiation of the executive procedure. The law also lays down cases where a child will not be entitled to temporary detention and if, on the basis of the measure, it is located in a foster family or another institution of social care or if the search to which the executive document is concerned no longer exists. The right to temporary abstention is governed by the Provisional Restraint Act and is prescribed as a partial compensation for the child's abstention of a given court decision or a settlement intended to protect the child if his maintenance is compromised, until the maintenance officer begins to carry out his or her obligation and for up to 3 years at the most. From the initiation of the executive procedure to the acquisition of the right to temporary abstention is prescribed with the intention to determine during that period whether the executive procedure will succeed with the payment of the abstention or to encourage the payment obligation. Subject law proposes to extend the rights on the part of citizens by saying that, as well as extending the right to 18 years of a child, reducing the time limit for the acquisition of rights from 3 months to a month from the initiation of the executive procedure, equalising the amount of temporary maintenance with the minimum amounts necessary for the monthly maintenance of a child from 50% to 100% of the family law. Since the proposed funds of 18 million kuna are not planned in the State budget for 2018 and the applicant has also delivered an opinion on the draft law which, in the normative part, is not prepared in accordance with the uniform methodological nomotechnical rules for the production of acts adopted by the Croatian Parliament, which is seen in the proposed provisions. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy as a professional holder of the preparation of a draft social care law proposal, which regulates social benefits for individuals and families on threatening material opportunities following the arrangements of the Institute of Maintenance and Special Procedures of Implementation and Insurance for the collection and maintenance and social benefits, will consider the need to comply with the Provisional Maintenance Act. Following all of the above, the HDZ Club will not accept the proposal of the Temporary Maintenance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83575	I thank my colleague Maximchuk. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And even though my colleague Sincic already mentioned it, I think repeating is a mother of knowledge, so let me just do a few things about this problem again. Of course, our children are of particular interest, that it is both a statute category and children should certainly be protected and we have proposed a whole series of legal solutions, which is from the opposition, which is also the authorities to do so. Therefore, I will remind you that temporary maintenance has been arranged for two members of the Family Law since 14 July 2003, which has been several times nivelled since its adoption, so there was no special law dealing with this problem, or temporary restraint. In April 2014, the Government, led by the SDP, proposed the adoption of this law to this High House, it was adopted, and the proposed law aimed at making significant steps, notably towards stronger and more effective protection of the child's right to restraint, strengthening legal protection, so as not to demonstrate itself by recognising certain rights, but also by achieving them through appropriate procedural mechanisms, to enable the uniform treatment of social care centres that until then had an unequal practice and competent state attorneys and to significantly facilitate the determination of the right to temporary maintenance and the percentage of reimbursement of the amount of temporary support paid by the maintenance officers. In accordance with the law that was then found before the Parliament, the Social Care Centre makes a decision every year requiring the father or parent to return the funds paid on the basis of temporary maintenance. This law would also simplify the procedure for returning paid amounts of temporary maintenance and thus achieve its efficiency, in particular by abandoning the need for leadership... A lawsuit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I will also remind you that the government of the SDP has proposed that the state bear 50% of the cost, so what this House of the High has also brought, and we think that this was a significant step towards protecting the child's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83577	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. On behalf of the promoter, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83578	Thank you, Vice President. We, of course, have studied the opinions and opinions of the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the parent Committee on the Family and of course the opinion of the Government. The government's opinion is on three pages of which are two-and-a-half history, meaning '98. In 2003, everything else was done, as the articles changed. So you mentioned two things that the government is objecting to at the very end of your opinion, one of them is funding. Yes, as I mentioned earlier, we cannot know in advance how many divorces there will be, or how many children will be born, or how many children will turn 18, or how many children will find themselves in a situation where they have to seek alimony, how many couples will agree, and how many of them will break that agreement, so they will have to go through a legal solution. We can't have as many children as there will be, therefore, new children who will have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and are not Croatian citizens. So the only base and basis with which we can give some cost assessment is just the money that's given for temporary maintenance, it's 18 million kuna. We're doubling the fee, so that's another 18 million kuna. Also, as I said, within the item of compensation for citizens and households with the intended funds of... billions of kunas can also be redistributed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So within some rebalance, and especially for future years, it's very easy to find a place for those 18 million kunas. It is money first, which will significantly help children of single parents, divorced, children who, behold, live with one parent, another parent may be close, perhaps who knows where, therefore, does not carry out their duties. It's a very small amount of money we're giving for now. He's certainly not enough. If the small had also admitted to past governments because it was in force by the provision that 100%, however, it was reduced to 50%. Now is the time and opportunity for that amount to rise again, to return that 18 million to 3.4, so that's 0.5%. Inside the statistical error. Let's help these people. I'm glad you mentioned the same thing here mentioned in the government's opinion that we should go in that direction to consider such suggestions, that we should fix. That's what I mean in the last paragraph. It's not the first such case, we've proposed the whistler law, you've refused and said we'll give ours. All right, give yours as soon as possible, but let it be real, not skinny ones. Also, drug control, I mentioned earlier, 2/3 of you agreed, but no, we'll give ours. HRT the same, an institution that doesn't work but no, we'll give ours. We need reform now and as soon as possible and there is no need to delay. And finally, here's a proposal for a Law on Temporary Restraint, something needs to be changed, but, well, we're not going to do it now, we're going to give it ours. Okay. We will fight as long as we can to adopt it as soon as possible, it is small or no matter what the amount, and it will mean a lot to the children of single parents. And the third thing I have to mention here. So, you've listed here that our proposal is not consistent with a unique methodological... Rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, you did not specify what the rules were and what they were exactly broken. Personally, I see no mistake, or if such a mistake exists, I would ask that the Government's representative explain it to us or explain it to us. We're willing to fix that mistake if there is. However, this is ultimately the first reading. The first reading and there is that from a rough law it is polished and it is squeezed to be effective in the end without errors and to be enforceable, of course. There's so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83579	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. We have one replica. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83580	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sincic, one of your findings prompted me to reply, which is when you say that the government will propose its Law and that is one of the reasons why it rejects it. You have listed some, for example, the Law on drug prevention, but I have listened to or actually to whistles, but I have listened to promises from the government, from ministers, from State Secretarys to adopt a new law on hunting, the strategy of agricultural development, the Istanbul Convention, though, it is the only law that has actually been sent into the procedure at the end... a proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately, that argument no longer stands for the government. So we keep hearing that our proposals, the proposals of the opposition, are primarily rejected because the government is working on its proposals, and we never see these proposals. When we exhaust the agenda of this week's session, I think only a few government proposals will be on the agenda, everything else will be proposals or other institutions whose reports we adopt or opposition. That speaks enough of the government's reform work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83581	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. Answer, colleague Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83582	Thank you, Vice President. Yeah, that's right. We at one point had more suggestions by the opposition on the agenda than it was from the government. Some ministries work very little and little, and there's another big problem, and that's the charm of this ruling coalition. We have here, as far as ideologies are concerned from left to right, from conservative, ultraconservative to liberal, from regional to national, and all these interests and capacities and appetites need to be satisfied and it is almost impossible to work when you have to negotiate on one law or reform that usually contains many laws on both sides, three sides or 10 sides. It's not growing linearly, it's growing, I'd say, exponentially. Maybe it's four times harder to align with five sides than just four sides or four parties. This is one of the paralysing problems, so this coalition cannot implement reforms at all or in some reduced form.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83583	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, respected colleague Maria Puh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83584	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are discussing the Law on Temporary Restraint. According to the current Act, the right to temporary detention shall have a minor child unless the parent who does not reside with that child is the basis of a judicial decision or a settlement in full or in part does not contribute to the maintenance, and if the parent and grandfather do not contribute to the child's restraint. Namely, this right is recognised from the date of application, until the obligor starts paying for maintenance, and for a maximum period of 3 years and 18 years, respectively, if it completes them before the end of that three year period. Also, in this case, the state assumes the obligation to pay 50% of the legal minimum of abstention determined by a decision made by the Minister based on the Family Law, which we have heard. Not paying for support from parents who do not live with a child, unfortunately, the problem for a certain part of children who are in such situations, and that is why the state itself intervened with the institution of temporary child restraint. What is very important to mention is that in practice there are two categories of those who do not meet their maintenance obligation. One of them is bonds that have lost their jobs or cannot find a job even though they are intensively looking for it. So that's where we're talking about justifiable inability. Unfortunately, however, there is another category, which is those bonds that deliberately work on black, which deliberately seek to be registered to a minimumer so that they can avoid their duty to pay for their child. In my opinion, one of the ways that we could solve this maintenance problem is the alimony fund that has already been mentioned and was a proposal to introduce it, and I think that one such solution would actually be the best solution for all children who do not get abstention from their parents, and perhaps it would be best to actually solve it in a way that the funds that the child receives are those funds that have been made by a maintenance solution, rather than on the basis of the minimum amount actually paid by this current provision of the state. Also, this one fund would only be used to pay child support and the fund would be returned to all those funds that would be successfully charged by the abstention debtors because ultimately, and only non-payment of child restraint is actually a criminal offence, and the solution the child receives about the maintenance is an executive document based on which can then be initiated and the possibility of a child can be realized. The legislator, as far as I've seen, predicts 18 million kunas for the implementation of this Act, which I think is quite flat-rate, and I think it's too small. I asked a little before the amendment to the law that was in 2014. 29 million kunas were spent under the item, and now it is proposed that compensation be paid up to the age of 18 of the child, that compensation be paid for foreign citizens as well. I think that amount is a lot, a lot too small for that. Already in 2007, the right to temporary abstention is limited to 3 years, and the reason why it was done was the urgency and the attitude that 3 years more than enough to be done through the Institute and through the Institute of Criminal Application influences abstentions to start fulfilling their obligation, not to send a message that the state will pay other people's obligations and resolve matters instead. The state takes care of children, the state takes care of child poverty. We also have an increase in the scope of child support that will actually cover all the families you mentioned earlier, means families with more children and who will really have an impact on those children because when we talk about temporary maintenance, it is one smaller part of children who are unfortunately in the divorce process and live with only one parent. Also, all the time more or less of your proposals, as we heard earlier in the HRT Bill proposal, you suggest that HRT is no longer paid for the tax, but that HRT will be financed from the state budget. I don't think the state budget can take on all the commitments because if no one's going to fill that state budget, how come the money that absolutely all the needs in this country are financed from the state budget? Following everything I've said, the HNS will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83585	I thank my esteemed colleague Maria Puh. On behalf of the promoter, the final word, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83586	Thank you, Chairman. Here's the debate coming to an end. Unfortunately, there weren't many interested or I suppose it could be in this late hour. We haven't heard from the government where these are unique... Methodological rules non-compliant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guess, then, since it's not worth mentioning that they're not even there or that they're almost gone. I'd like to look back on what was just said. Thus, the current law stipulates that three years are enough for a reckless parent to learn that he must pay child support. However, there are a number of problems in practice. You have a situation where by the age of 18, a child under the current law can only be helped by the state for three years. What if there's someone without a job inside those 18 years, five years? Then he's a child with nothing. Or if in more spaces it's cumulative without any income, so he can't pay. So there's not just a thing with those who have, and they don't want to pay. Of course they need to be completed. That's where we're talking about those who'd like to pay, and they've got nowhere to go. This is where the state has to jump in, it has to take care of those children, and then when money is made, then the same parent will give it back to the state, as already prescribed by the current legal mechanisms. It is evident that current fees are not enough, that poverty in children is extended, so about 20% of children, or every fifth child, I repeat, is considered poor again. The joy of having 90 percent of children looking optimisticly at the future, but we must help them at every step and what is now obtained, so half of 960, half of 1100, half of 1200 is a very small amount, especially for a single family where a single person usually works, if it works, or tends to provide, is a big difference between a family where two people work and have one child and only one person works and has one child. I therefore ask that as soon as possible the measures are worked out, not only of these, but of many others, to improve life and to enhance the childhood of all these children, all of these children will one day become people, adults, some will sit here and we must ensure, as the first three say, are the most important, not only in the first three, but throughout the process of socialization, education and education to get as good and quality of education and growth as possible, because if they do not get, if they are exposed to violence, if they are exposed to poverty, and that Gundi poverty is the greatest violence, it creates anxiety, it affects both physical and psychological development of children, they will feel the consequences when children grow up, it will be long-term consequences, and we are actually reducing the functionality of individuals that one day in society will be ready to behave all those duties that they must. Here I call you once again to extend the fee from 50% to 100% as it used to be, and I invite you to allow those of our non-citizens of the Republic of Croatia, who live here, to be reported, there is not much, perhaps even 1%, to enable them to make this fee, to allow until the 18th year that this right is achieved because it is not wrong if a child is without a job, let's say 5 years old, so there is no place to pay, and now it would not pay the state. So it's a big injustice not to pay alimony, we agree, not to worry about your child, it's a big injustice and the state jumps in to correct this injustice, but only for 3 years, but after 3 years of 1 month, it's no longer an injustice, you're on your own. It's not right and this is not enough, but it's a big step forward and something that might and should go through in this assembly, if not from us, I don't mind, here next week right now or tomorrow, tomorrow is Friday, write the same law or better, I call you to write a better one, we'll vote for it, because it's only important that children get a decent life, and whoever gets points or doesn't, it's secondary to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83587	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. We have a replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83588	Thank you very much, dear representative Sincic. So here, as far as we can see, the Living Wall here every day suggests some law, every law goes to a measure of improving citizens' standards, especially those most endangered, today we have a law that would like to help children who can't get alimony, which, let's be honest, is very modest, we have seen that it's a few hundred kunas, no more than 1250 kuna. And we see that the state justifies that the law isn't nomotechnically arranged, that they don't have money right now. I don't understand how they don't have money, the Prime Minister said that the budget has a surplus, that they will invest in demographic measures, this was an ideal opportunity, but it wasn't used. You say let the government write its own laws, but we see that the Government only brings here the European Directives and regulations, and everything that could improve the standard of citizens remains only in promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83589	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. My colleague Sincic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83590	Thank you, Chairman. If we had, here's already 20 legal proposals, some have been discussed, some haven't. Some of these are legal proposals of just a few articles, and somewhere they are brand new laws of 114 articles, such as the whistle-wrestle law and some we write, the most important thing is to create successful legal mechanisms. We want to do it in 5 articles or 50, it will already tell the lawyer what's best, which is optimal for the law to be implemented optimally. Here I would like to read one statistical information, it says: because household income is not enough for them, 65% of poor households did not pay the directories in time for 3 or more months, I repeat for 3 or more months in the last year. 62% have reduced the use of utility, and every fourth household that has been excluded has been shut down by some communals, mostly electricity, phone and water, and I repeat, there is a Constitutional Court ruling that water is anti-constitutional, but who here respects the Constitution?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83591	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. We've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the representatives of the proposer for the reasons of the draft law. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Ms. Maria Pleikosi. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83592	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Provisional Maintenance Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 323 Proposer of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Provisional Restraint Act is not accepted, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for and 1 vote against a conclusion, as proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83593	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a law on additions to the Labour Act, first reading, P.Z. No 309 is proposed by the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. The government has delivered its opinion. I call upon the proposer's representative, Mrs. Anku Mrak Taritash, to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please, Mrs. Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83594	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. When you look at and analyze and talk, then how the businessmen evaluate and what they consider to be a problem in Croatia, for investment, or for work. They point to 3 facts, one fact is tax policy, the other is inflexible, i.e., insufficiently flexible and unclear labour law and third believe or not, unstable energy prices. The theme of this amendment and the addition of the Labour Act is work on Sundays. So we're participants and we see that it's always a dispute and a debate about working on Sundays, whether we should work on Sundays, whether we should not work on Sundays. We have different examples in the EU, there are some countries that work on Sundays, some countries that don't work, so we have different options. However, we, in our legislation and the current Labour Act, have been working on Sundays. We went into the draft of this law, for a simple reason, which we think on Sundays is the relationship between employers and employees, that the basis of any needs is to decide whether or not it is to work on Sundays or not, that it is not a secular issue, but only a question of the need of the market, i.e., the relationship of employees and its employers. And so through this addition to the law, we said that the theme of work on Sundays can not be because of the redistributed work of time, that minimum work on Sundays should be increased by 30%, of course it can be more, for a simple reason, which we don't think a single employer should impose certain conditions and certain ways. When it comes to Sunday's work, then we think it should be 30%, for the simple reason, which, of course, this Sunday's work will be decided if it makes extra money and in that law we've also said what sanctions it is, if possibly the employer doesn't respect the provisions of this law. We passed two committees, before that the government gave its opinion, and in that opinion it's about, I'll say two sentences, it won't be an esteemed secretary, but I'll say in two sentences, one sentence was that somehow they thought that the current legislative proposal was fine. But what is promising, which was also in the debate, is that through further amendment of the new law and the proposed new measures, it will nevertheless take care to try and define this differently. Why does the opposition propose laws? It does not propose opposition to the law to harass the ruling, to make rules important, to say that it is very smart, it proposes for 2 reasons. One reason, therefore, is that these are some changes that you see in walking that are necessary and should not cause recommendations, but should actually enable in one activity, or, in one, to solve a particular problem. And the second reason why the trial proposes laws, to give a message and to say, if, when we come to power, then we will, our messages will be like that. And for that, among other things, in these amendments to the law, we weren't so naive, that we expected, that the ruling of both handles would accept it, but we absolutely want this speaker to say the following. The problem of working on Sundays, the problem that needs to be solved in Croatia, should not be and should not be defined as a secular issue, but should only be defined, as a need, whether we need to work on Sundays and this should define the relationship between employers and our employees, and therefore, in this regard, we went with this law supplement. It's really the end of the day, I thank you at the end of the day, that we've still got the strength to discuss this point. On the basis of the vote, the committees also made it clear to us what the vote would be. However, what we all need to know, the problem of working on Sundays should be regulated by law, should be regulated in a way that tries to balance employers and employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83595	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Taritash, for this explanation of the bill. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. A representative of the government? Here you are, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, dear Majda Buric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83596	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept this proposal of the Labour Law Act, which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU in the Croatian Parliament and by the Act of 28 February 2018. In addition, according to these supplements, work on holidays or Sundays cannot be included for the redistribution of working hours, and for non-compliance with the proposed supplements, fines between 61 thousand and 100 thousand kn are prescribed. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the existing legal solution is better than this bill, and that it is necessary to find a more comprehensive and comprehensive solution and certainly in cooperation with the social partners. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System will consider these issues, in future amendments and additions to the general rules on labour, but based solely on the analyses which are lagging behind and which are still necessary for the functioning of the law itself. In the current Labour Act on Sundays and holidays, it is regulated to prescribe mandatory pay increases for those days only because the percentage of the increase is not prescribed, but is determined either by collective contracts or by special regulations or by the labour rule or by the labour contract itself. In any case, the percentage of salary increases for these days must be clearly established and it is often significantly and significantly higher than the proposed 30%. So we have an example in the public and state service that Sunday's work is paid 35% higher, and work on holidays is 150% higher. We believe that the 30% increase in work on Sundays and holidays is not sufficiently justified by this proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Law and that this is what I mentioned serious analysis and cooperation with employers and trade unions. As for the redistribution of working hours, we believe that the proposed supplements are inconclusive. In order for the system to function, it is sometimes necessary to ensure a flexible organisation of working time, in the sense that one week or one month is done in a reinforced way, another a little less, and all to satisfy the fluctuations in business. Under the applicable Labour Act, such a way of organisation of working time must be agreed and established by a collective agreement or agreement concluded between the working council and the employer. If not, then the employer is obliged to establish a redistribution plan and deliver it to the labour inspector. The redistribution may take up to four months or six months if so agreed by a collective agreement. However, disfellowshipping Sundays or holidays from this process would lead to employers not fully fulfilling their obligations and, therefore, we believe that this supplement or supplementation of this provision is inconclusive. So, we repeat once again that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the work of the promoters of the club HSU and the Club of Representatives of GLAS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83597	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State for the government's position. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Zarko Tušek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83598	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HDZ Club consider this initiative to be serious, and in this sense we would like in one reasoned and serious way to speak a few words about our positions and the current analysis of the situation. In relation to the proposal for a supplement of Article 67, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance The Act on the operation of the provisions restricting the redistribution of working time. The first thing the promoter fails to see is that the redistribution of an institute that already now has a number of restrictions in order to protect workers. The first restriction, that it cannot be introduced only where there is a need for such an organization that depends primarily on the nature of the work or the nature of the activity that is taking place. Therefore, it is also possible to introduce redistributed working hours only in tourism, in construction, in agriculture and similar activities, or in those employers where there is a need for workers to work longer in one part of the year than prescribed contract full-time or not full-time, and in the second part of the year work is shorter than full-time or not full-time. These are otherwise activities characterized by strong seasonality, which is objectively possible only if the nature of the activity is such that it has a job of such a kind. For example, if you need to sow wheat, turn corn, pour out concrete construction, if you need to finish the contracted object in a short time, if you have a large and unpredicted order and you need to produce and deliver a certain amount of goods, so much or not full-time can be re-distributed only in advance and only if the nature of the work requires it. The second is the restriction that, unlike overtime, work in redistributed working hours cannot be introduced in principle by simple employer decision. So redistributed working hours must be provided by collective agreement or agreement between the working council and the employer. However, if these two agreements are not provided for, the employer may then introduce it on his own after establishing the redistribution plan and delivering it to the labour inspector. So the plan must contain a list of jobs and the number of workers involved in the redistribution. When it comes to redistributing collective agreements, then there should be no doubt that both employers and trade unions will best be able to assess through the negotiation process the need for the re-allocation of working hours, and even if contracts, and even if the redistributed working hours for more than 48 hours a week, there is another restriction, which is that the worker must make a written statement of consent to such work. Let's just say he doesn't have to do overtime. Therefore, what the applicant is offering is, in fact, in collapsing with the basic intensity of redistribution of working time as an instrument offered by labour legislation. In relation to Article 94, prescribing the minimum amount of salary increases for work on Sundays, holidays or other days for which the law stipulates that they are not working. The first question is why is it 30%, not 40% or 20%? This amount is unclear and there is no analysis to support the applicant's intensity. Secondly, the comparison of legislative practice does not also contain such a provision, for example, the Slovenian Labour Ratio Act does not prescribe such a fixed minimum wage increase on Sundays or holidays. Third, the Labour Act itself already answers the question of how much pay increases must be made for those days. It is true that the Labour Act itself answers the question of how much pay increases must be made for those days. In fact, it is true that the Labour Act does not prescribe the amount of salary increases, but the increase is either left to the contractor through collective or individual negotiation, so these amounts are as we have heard and far above the 30% required by the promoter. For example, the collective banking contract envisions an increase of 50%, a collective contract in catering, which is the dominant private sector for the holidays of 50%, for Sunday 30%, a collective contract in construction by Sunday 30%, for Easter 50% and for the holidays of 50%. The second fence is by way of a working rule. In determining the amount of the increase, it is necessary to bear in mind that the increase in salary from the basic prescribed criteria is an integral part of the salary and the provision of the Law on the right to adequate pay, that is very important to say. It is also important to mention that work on Sundays or holidays should not affect workers’ rights on his weekly vacation if the work is organised in a way that this week’s vacation can generally not be used on Sundays. Therefore, here it is necessary to explain in more detail but accurate understanding even if the right to an increased salary or percentage or the amount of salary increase is not precisely regulated by a collective contract, a labour contract or a labour rule, that means that the worker will not be able to exercise his right to increase wages. At that time, the percentage of salary increases will have to be determined according to the provisions of the Labour Act which are prescribed the way in which the salary is determined. It is necessary to repeat that the employer bound by the collective contract must not account for and pay the worker a salary less than the amount determined by a collective agreement. If the basics and pay-out criteria are not governed by a collective contract, an employer who employs more than workers, he is obliged to open them with a labour rule. If the salary is not determined in the abovementioned ways and the labour contract itself does not contain sufficient data on the basis of which it could be determined, then they have failed to contract them, the employer is obliged to pay the worker a reasonable salary, where under appropriate pay is considered a salary that is regularly paid for equal work. This, for example, means, if, for example, the worker's watch is 100 kn and if the employer for overtime I think only pays 5 kn, the worker would receive 105 kn. But if in a sector where the employer operates the average increase of 35% of the captain, then such an increase would be considered inappropriate and would not correspond to the basis of the current labour law provisions. In this context, we as a HDZ club, in some ways we can view this initiative with understanding and look at it, but it as such without serious analysis, its effect on the labour market, its effect on real business life in different sectors of the economy, primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, OPGs, certain special branches of industry that remain competitive at the moment solely because of the current labour price and in general on working legal relations as a whole, cannot be supported by us. It should also be pointed out that the working relationship in its spirit of nature is a contractual relationship and the items in this respect to employers on the one hand, trade unions and individual workers on the other hand are not allowed to freely negotiate more favourable working conditions than the level of rights guaranteed to the worker by a minimum. Finally, the HDZ Club cannot support the proposed addition of the Labour Act because, independently of possible positive proposals, the proposed measures are not part of comparatively positive legal practice and are not supported by a serious impact analysis on the economy and the labour market in general. Eventually, this legislative proposal can only be a contribution to the start of a wider and more complex public debate on how and how to achieve the Croatian worker and, above all, the Croatian worker in the real sector is in a position to make his work more paid. I would personally tell you first of all how to reform the Croatian tax system and therefore our labour market to pay from what the employer pays to the worker based on a labour contract, that same worker remains as much as possible, I think it is a crucial and thorough problem, I believe you will agree with me. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83599	I thank my esteemed colleague, Žarko Tušek. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83600	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. State secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we again hear from the rulings about under-thinking solutions, about encouraging wider debates, about solutions that do not exist but what they do to them, but we do not see those solutions. The government doesn't produce those solutions. What the rulings say is that our solutions or solutions proposed by the opposition are unarranged or newly designed or not acceptable, we need some others but some others do not come. So I also call upon the ruling, and I call upon the government, so let's give the people those solutions to see which are acceptable, comprehensive and quality solutions. Croatia is and wants to be a tourist country. If we are a tourist country and specificities of different branches of industry dictate to work on Sundays of the sea. The work on Sundays has unfortunately become a subject of world-wide poles in Croatia, not a semi-economic protection of workers and protection of workers' rights above all, and then, of course, it uses an employer who will earn a living working on Sundays. That's the law to settle, that's where we can agree. When we talk about unions and workers on one side to fight employers for good or better rights, then colleagues and colleagues, you must bear in mind that trade unions only work in areas of public and state service. As a rule, private sector employees are not protected by anyone and therefore by laws, at least at this point they must set a certain minimum. We can talk about the minimum. 30% of the club's proposed GLAS may be a good start, but it's certainly not something to stop at. We should try to find a balance between the employer and the employer as Mrs Taritash said on behalf of the promoter, but this balance must not go to the harm of the workers, and that is why we think that this should be legally strengthened in order of course, we can always leave the employer and the worker free to agree on better conditions, but minimum conditions to set. Therefore, once again, I call upon the ruling because there is a will to support this law to see their solutions and to protect the rights of workers, above all to the benefit of workers and he is a satisfied worker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83601	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. On behalf of the promoter, final word, respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83602	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The end of the working day, the debate on this bill was relatively short, but as everyone in each debate hears what they want to hear, I will conclude what I heard. I heard from the debate that it was a good emergency, that it had to be resolved and that by ruling through one full change or through one whole way to find a solution and solve it and what I heard and I hope that we will really do it in a satisfactory way for the simple reason why Sunday's work is certainly a problem, we must have a quality legal solution and that quality legal solution must protect the worker, but it must also enable the employer to breathe. I've been asked recently about minimum wage, I said you shouldn't prescribe minimum wage because it's better if people work than people don't work. So the intensity is that people are working, working on Sundays is a need, but it is also a need to legally prescribe it here, because probably everyone who thought about the replicas gave it, I am thanking everyone who participated in the debate, and I am somehow trying always positive and I read that the legislator, or we are the legislator, but that through the next amendments to the law or new law, will take care of it, make a quality analysis and, yes, any proposal that will solve it will be welcome and will be supported by us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83603	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We have several replicas, dear colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mrs. Dark-Taritash, I have a constructive replica. I agree with you, Sunday's work needs to be paid, 30 or 50% should be paid, preferably by the employer, but it's not clear to me that working hours are not making sense if they can't be included on Saturdays and Sundays. For example, agricultural production. You have seasonal affairs, crops, harvests, harvests. It's working 30 days a month for 12 hours and Saturdays and Sundays of course, of course, that's where it's supposed to pay over hours, but winters do repairs, they can work for 4 hours, but they can make such redistributions in such a way using their days off. So I'm curious how you imagined it if we can't make use of Saturdays and Sundays in the working-time redistribution season?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83605	Thank you. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83606	Thank you very much, dear colleague. So when the opposition suggests something and there is one communication, then perhaps you could say what was not read from this proposal. What practice shows is, in fact, that it's not about this redistribution, but it's about the fact that during the redistribution of working time, employers say you're working on Sundays, so it's not about working on Sundays, it's about redistributing working hours, especially in trade, so that's what was the key problem. So it should have been possible for some kind of discussion that we could through the amendment of the law, there was no reason not to suggest any other statement from which it would have been clearer. In fact, it was about not being able to redistribute your hours and then someone working on Sundays and then getting into his work hours, that was intensity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83607	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash. Next replica, dear colleague Zarko Tušek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83608	Thank you very much. I'd just like to take a brief look at the findings of colleague Mrak-Taritash in the sense that this is acceptable to us or a quality or correct proposal, but that we're looking for some kind of excuse so that we don't accept it in some way. So we supported your initiative in context... on labour relations and on the problems of workers working on Sundays. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you've just said one segment, one branch in which this area may be more sensitive, although the proposal doesn't say anything, you've now commented, it might be more convenient if you'd delivered it as a comparative analysis of the problem by certain branches, so we could talk about it differently, but our observation is going towards that this proposal is worse than what we currently have in the Labour Act. So the solutions we currently have are more quality, more content, and the practice has shown better than what you're offering. That's all we wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83609	The answer to a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83610	.../speak off./... the words said that each of us hears what he wants to hear. So what I wanted to hear and what I'm saying, and that's that the government said that the moment a new proposal is going to work, they're going to do what's a tool, so the tools that the government has, which has a ministry, we certainly don't have as a club, and that's to do an analysis, to get all the data, to get the current data, to compare the different data, to compare the trade, to compare the hospitality, to compare the building, in the building, it's logical to work in the summer period, you can't pave the road in winter. So the government has these possibilities, i.e. a resolute ministry which we as a club had no opportunities and therefore our proposal was the way it was. So what is important to us from this proposal to read that this is a problem, that the problem that needs to be solved, is that any quality proposal will be welcome. But again, I repeat that there is a possibility of communication, then perhaps even some of the reluctances can be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83611	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrak-Taritash for his reply. The next replica of a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83612	Thank you very much. Comrade Taritash, we heard when the government does some of the proposals or the law supplement will then be taken into account. But I want to know when it's gonna be. Since here, I have said several times today, currently on the agenda, when we exhaust the agenda of this session, more legislative proposals on the agenda exist than those she sent to the opposition procedure, than opposition. So it is no wonder that the EU has given us bad opinions that the reforms are non-existent, that they are somewhere in the air, that there is not enough work, and the opposition when the proposal is then rejected and then we say we are working on it, but we do not see the results of that work and that is the problem. We are not running away from supporting what we consider to be good and which can improve our legislation, no matter who suggested it, including the ruling, and they refuse apropo only because it comes from opposition. Is that a good message? Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83613	Thank you. The answer to a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83614	Thank you very much. Col. Hajdukovic, we are witnessing that no matter what foreign opposition is proposed, we are generally getting about the same answers. But what we need to be as an opposition, we need to be persistent, we need to be stubborn, we need to insist. I usually think that the better the opposition is in that case, the better the ruling, so if the rulings don't work enough, I'm afraid there are certain responsibilities on us. I'm also very happy to turn the cards and tarot, but I think only cards or throw beans can give us some answers when the reforms, when the laws or what we see, are really very slow to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83615	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, for the reasons of the bill. I would also like to thank the representatives of the government, the respected Secretary of State Majdi Buric, the respected Assistant Minister Karolini Ivanovic and the respected adviser at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Mr. Matija Kikelj. We'll vote on this agenda point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. We continue tomorrow with the first point of the proposal for a law on the ban on genetically modified organisms, behind which is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests. The vote is at 12 o'clock. If we finish by 12 o'clock, we'll go behind the vote, and if not, after the vote, we'll continue to work. I see my colleague Bulj is here, I guess he thought I'd put this dot on, but I gave him my word that I wouldn't, so. Have a nice rest of the day. Session interrupted in 20.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-17-0.u83616	Proposal for a Law supplementing the Labour Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 309th is the proposed club of GLAS and HSU representatives and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Labour Act is not accepted, please vote. I find that, unanimously, 77 votes have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
