ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101503	We can get started. Good morning, everyone. Dear MPs and MPs, before we continue to work, I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 236 of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the Croatian Parliament placed the point of view of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of the request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Branimir Bunjc. So now we're going to keep working. Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101504	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm looking for a break because I'm consterned with the fact that Minister Pejcinović's husband doesn't pay the bills, that's the man who beat 5 million kuna into a harmful gas thermopower plant project that was supposed to be on the Cetina River that we stopped, a man who can't possibly be called a social case, and now Milan Bandic, under the law passed by this government without social criteria, is firing his debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101505	Good point you said, but you can only ask for a break based on the agenda, and then after No, because I can't give you a break. [[I have a minute to explain the link.]] I can't because No, no, I don't consider anything.../Brubbers: that people who have millions are fired from debt as social cases? [[Bouting Grmoya: Do you consider the chairman to be normal...]] Because you, as a member of the ruling coalition, justify such actions? Why won't you let me finish what I was about to say? For the last time, I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure. After the vote, you'll be able to talk about it as a club. I'm sticking to the Rules of Procedure. It's not connected to the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101506	You didn't let me explain at all, so this government is going out of an affair into an affair, this minister is going out of an affair in an affair. This is the minister who protects the illegal spending of money in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and is now her husband, who is a millionaire, who has beaten 5 million kunas into a single project, a harmful project, and the city of Zagreb is firing his debts as a social case. So because you realize what kind of disgust it causes in people? This government scandals us every day. We cannot believe what you do or what you do. And Milan Bandic, who heads the city of Zagreb, is firing debts to people who cannot possibly be called a social case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101507	Okay, you said yours. I will now read you an article, that is Article 3: Stanka is the time set for this Rules of Procedure to meet and consult the Club of Representatives on the point of the established agenda of the session. You know very well, you just abuse, you have the first warning today. You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Maras? What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101508	The article you mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101509	No, no, I didn't mention any article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101510	What don't you remember what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101511	You should mention him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101512	You did mention it. It means Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101513	Which one??
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101514	Three, what did you just say, did you say? Can you give me 30 seconds back now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101515	All right, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101516	30 seconds, please. Thank you very much. You have unwarrantedly refused to stop the Club of Representatives of the Most because they can be consulted because it is as closely connected as counterpart Grumoja said with the work of the Inspectorate and the law which is now in force and have the right to maintain a break and please Mr. Vice President not to interpret the link between you, but to representatives who have to consult. That's why people asked for a break, I'm asking you to grant a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101517	Did I let him talk? I did. Did I read your article? I did. The item is the annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2017. It's not related to that point, he didn't talk about it, and you have the first warning today. Thank you very much. Let's move on. - Annual report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2017. The applicant is an agency... I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure Mr. Maras, we don't, you know very well what you do every time, I mean that, you know what you're doing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The applicant shall be the applicant of the Competition Protection Agency based on the Article... Please don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You'll get another one so you won't be able to speak. On the basis of Article 34... Well, that happens every day, so why aren't you bored? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It is the subject of a competition protection agency pursuant to Article 34 of the Competition Protection Act. The debate will be conducted on the basis of an article... I'm not going to give it to you because it's not the same for me to run a session when you're not here, so I won't give you another warning, at least for the time being. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't talk anymore, please. It is the subject of a competition protection agency pursuant to Article 34 of the Competition Protection Act. We will conduct the debate on the basis of Article 44(6) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the government delivered an opinion. Does Mr Mladen Cerovac, president of the Competition Protection Council, wish to give an additional explanation as a representative of the applicant? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101519	I will not speak for long, so the report of the Competition Protection Agency, I think, is sufficiently extensive, that it is transparent, clear, that a description of the procedure is given by the ZTN, the Law on the Protection of Competition, and by the new law that the Agency implements, and that is the Act on Unfair Trade Practices in the Food Chain, is given a description of some major subjects and statistics of the Agency's work. Therefore, the Agency is an independent and independent regulatory body responsible for protecting competition in all markets, so to those subject to ex Sante regulation. Therefore, on 31.12.2017, 44 were employed by the Agency, including 5 members of the Competition Protection Council. Everyone, the professional service works in a way that forms teams in which one lawyer and one economist always work. These 44 employees were supervised by 200, about 260 thousand addresses of the Competition Protection Act, so about 260 thousand entities in Croatia can be subjected to the definition of entrepreneurs within the meaning of the Competition Protection Act. In 2017, the agency solved a total of 645 items, which is about 1% more than in the previous year but the number of cases is mostly moving in the last 3 years around this number about 7 hundred. The remaining unresolved from the previous 18 cases, so they have not been resolved, these proceedings are still pending, some procedures due to complexity, because of the complexity of the procedure and the large procedural rights that the parties have in the proceedings are going on for a little longer. But 18 objects are somewhere around, only about 3% of the number of total cases solved. Since the agency completed 20 years of work last year in 2017, we will only mention that in that period it solved more than 8 thousand cases without counting the items in the area of state aid which it moved to the European Commission in 2013 and 2014 respectively. In the last year, the agency analysed in its 24 relevant markets, three sectoral surveys were carried out, 2 conducted traditionally, it is an analysis of the food retail market, so what we call food retailers and the print media market and last year an analysis of the insurance market was made. In addition, the agency sets out a large number of opinions on laws and other regulations, on request, issued at the request of the Government of the Croatian Parliament, a unit of local self-government. But also in any other case where it considers that the Agency's responsible opinions would be important for the competition. As far as law enforcement is concerned, the Agency shall conduct the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. Of the 9 lawsuits brought against the decisions of the agency, the High Administrative Court rejected or dismissed all nine lawsuits. Last year, the agency had a very intensive activity in the area of regulation on both domestic and international terms. Thus, the Agency’s experts were involved in the preparation of the Law on Compensation of Compensation of Competition Rights and the corresponding amendments to the Regulation on the release or reduction of administrative criminal measures as well as the preparation of preparations for amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition and 7.12 entered into force and the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain carried out by the AZT and in which the creation was largely involved by the Agency for Protection against Competition and its experts. On the international plan, the Agency took part in the development of the position of the Republic of Croatia relating to the directive of Parliament and of the Council, a long name of that directive, but it is a directive on strengthening competition authorities. The agency also organised two international conferences that were visited very well. The Agency continues to issue AZTN info, hence the electronic bulletin it also delivers to all parliamentary representatives. As far as the agency's budget was concerned, it amounted to 11000 348, 11 million 348 thousand 740 kuna last year. The agency, I remind you, has no own income, it is financed exclusively from the state budget which is logical because the agency actually acts as a court, which we see and by the fact that in control, the legality of its decisions has no first degree she... as a first degree than there is only a High Administrative Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also note that the agency is the only body in the Republic of Croatia that directly implements European law, so primarily Article 101... 101nd and 102nd contracts on the functioning of the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one more thing, when visiting the Commissioner for the Competition of Mrs. Vestager in Croatia, which was about a month ago. She said she was pleased with the agency's work, that the agency is working well with the commission and other national competition authorities. It's very important to us because it's said by someone who knows what the Agency's powers are, what the tasks are and what it means to protect the competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101520	Thank you, too. You have several replicas. The first replica has Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is clear to all how important this topic is, especially when in Croatia every day we have an injustice, a partner capitalism that experienced a culmination a few days ago in the NSB where a whole set of partners who had been creating since the '90s had an unauthorized connection between politics and entrepreneurship that he culminated in yesterday. There, from Borislav Škegra and other finance ministers in HDZ governments until Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, there was a group of politicians who worked hard to help entrepreneurs, I am convinced of some of the activities where normal market relations are being violated so that this role of the agency is crucial and we must say not to the partners who were exposed two days ago in the NSB. You should tell your friends no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101522	Time, thank you. Okay, Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101523	Thank you. Dear Mr. Cerovac, I'd like to ask you a question of the hypothetical species. ... Please, Mr. Shuker, shut up, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, Mr. Cerovac, I ask you to answer one hypothetical question, if we were to find that 8 legal entities have negotiated unfair contractual provisions, with 200,000 Croatian citizens and that, on the basis of these unfair contractual provisions, such as were not contracted west of Croatia, these 200,000 Croatian citizens have been robbed of 15 billion kuna extra profits to these real entities, if they were united and if they jointly agreed by all 200,000 debtors of a certain contractual provision, do you view it hypothetically that such legal entities could be accused of joining the cartel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101524	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101525	Your Honor, the question is hypothetical and the answer can only be hypothetical, hypothetically that, however, it should always be, the thing is, as far as unfair contractual provisions are concerned, it is a matter of civil law and it has nothing to do with the Competition Protection Agency and the issue of coordinated action is... It should prove that there are anti-market direct contacts between these entrepreneurs, it is not so easy, they are not exactly naive, if any, they knew to cover it up quite safely. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So hypothetically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101526	Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101527	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Cerovac, the report is correct, one remark. At this moment in silence, many citizens of this country leave this country in mourning, separate from their families, there are different professions, different levels of education and different ages. These people are leaving, I would call them in Kurz's Europe, a Europe of young, smooth Catholics who at the moment think that children living in poorer countries should not get a child's allowance because they are poor anyway. On the other hand, we show that we have extremely good experts who, in a few months, can raise hundreds of millions of kuna in the process here's an extraordinary administration. What I'm worried about right now, why on the page of this report says that experts can't be educated in the Republic of Croatia, that I don't think a report like this should stand, that it's inadmissible, I think I can really educate myself here because on the other hand we can send to be educated in Tzv. Kurzo's Europe, so that you don't see the dawn of education in Kurz.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101528	Thank you. You'll answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101529	Thank you for asking, of course we have a problem with the experts. What it says on page 15 does not mean that Croatia does not have the education of experts in general but the problem is that for experts on competition rights, therefore for competition rights, there is no such thing as studies, there are at certain universities, such as the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, the Faculty of Law in Zagreb, there is no special department for that, so you cannot learn that anywhere. This is actually, it's a profession, it's not taught in college, colleges don't have that department, I think that if there was a European law department that should actually expand it somehow, that the time had matured that there was a department for competition rights and state support which therefore fall into it in a broader sense. Our experts are leaving, of course, it's the problem of the agency's constant problems, there's that clause two in a row, so I have to wait for the two of you to fire me to get one, I need three years to school him, it can only be done to go to conferences... abroad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101530	Thank you. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101531	Thank you very much. To talk about unfair commercial practice and competitions in the Republic of Croatia is very simple to describe from several examples. Teleoperators behave in the Republic of Croatia as in no other country of Europe, not only the EU, their biggest profit is 40%, they set base stations wherever they want and do not pay the right of service or the right path that they pay for at their homes, we also have in the case of here and partner capitalism, a man who has allowed 10 billion kunas without cover to use Todorovic in the biggest crisis caused by the crisis with Martin Dalic is Mr. Vujčić, there is the main lecturer who represents her. So everything is based on unfair commercial practice, Croatia is on unfair commercial practice and monopolism is destroyed to the ground and you are gentlemen all who have been ministers here, fat, fat-earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101532	Thank you very much. Okay. He wants to, and yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Cerovac, despite the fact that the Law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain came into effect only on 7 December 2017, I expected you to say more today about how AZTN teamed up regardless of what the 2017 report was about, how AZTN teamed up, whether it was teamed up and how it was implemented specifically in everyday life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101534	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101535	Dear Representative Shuker, I thank you for this question. I didn't want to talk about the implementation of this law because it was only 23 days or 24 days last year, though, as far as the teaming agency is concerned, as soon as the law came into force, 6 employees, 4 lawyers, 2 economists, this is now showing that we might be short, the agency has, in the meantime, launched so far according to my final knowledge 162 procedures, so 162 cases have been opened, in 29 administrative proceedings, so the indications have been found that it could be unfair commercial practices within the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101536	Whether the applicant's representative wants to take a word for it, not apologising. He's gone. I open the debate, first of all clubs, first Mr. Tomislav Panenić, from the Association of Representatives Bridges of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101537	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Today we have the head man of the Competition Protection Agency. It may also be difficult to illustrate the importance of this institution, but it is certain that often by its action it can affect the numerous fees that would arise precisely in the search, the possibility, that a certain part of the market concentrates, i.e. to maximise the agreement on that market, between one and the pair. We all learned about this approach at school. The free market is the desire of the consumer. But at the end of the wish of big players is that as few of these entities on the market as possible, and even the best situation is when one is the only. We wouldn't often find it precisely that one entity that appeared to us quickly took over the market or took over such a large share of the market to make it a huge problem for us. The problem that we had in yesterday's debate to discuss, which is related to Agrokora, we see how broad the problem is when there's a real threat. The threat of even the entire market, the threat of many employees, the threat of consumers. We are happy at the end when we look at both some effects and the EU in particular, in the context of telecommunications, because if there were not such a general regulation that regulated the prices of ruming, when we went abroad, we would return regularly, as now, when we came from third countries with accounts, which once increased by 1000, 2000 kn because they could. They could've worked like that, until one legislator said they couldn't do it anymore. I wish sometimes we were stronger in lawmaking, too, which will just limit such inappropriate incomes, inappropriate profits, which arise. The agency as such, here the director himself said that he had problems, problems at the end with what he was, perhaps he shouldn't be at all, and these are primarily salaries, because for experts who will analyse, analyze the situation in a particular market, the situation in certain companies, surely you have to have top people who have around them an environment from which they can draw information that analytically access, which can precisely from data, which appear in different places, make conclusions, carry out tests and ultimately make solutions to prevent treatment that is not marketable. Treatment by only a certain group of income. As minister, I had the opportunity to participate in a visit to the agency, in fact, not as a representative, as a minister I was, where we talked about certain problems that were emerging, but here, as a representative I had the opportunity to be in the premises and I can only say that the reports we received there about the way we handled, show actually sub-optimisation, sub-optimisation. Sub-capacitation which is certainly not the desire of the director or his people, because they need and must receive real support, support from the Croatian Parliament, and also from all those who need to help them in their work, because we see that there are many difficult circumstances, when we ignore ourselves, we sometimes ignore the existence of such practices. And we're actually trying not to actually see them, and then in the end, we don't report and we put up with it, and we put up with it until it becomes unsustainable. This report made it clear that the agency was created because the countries, members of the EU, are obliged to establish such an independent body. I would prefer that there was a different interpretation in which it said, Croatia recognized that it must have a body like this, but that is the past. Let's get back to the report, and I noticed in the context of this, that one of these concerns is that there are no unreported concentrations on the electronic media market since 2017, in double the size of it. Somehow we all feel these telecommunications services are very liberalized, it should be even more accessible, there are our mobile phones present practically with every citizen. I kind of feel like it should be one service that's really basic, but we see that someone's still trying to make more significant revenues out of that service. And sometimes incomes come from some new activity, for which there are restrictions on access to others, and sometimes on activities that may not be market-attractive to new actors, so those who had it in the past time, are jealously still protecting their incomes. What we can yet conclude is that there is a need for a more significant discovery of many other situations. What may always be easy to show on a telecom, and then there it will be reasonable to explain it to people. But we can see that in our practices there are concentrations, especially the concentration of public funds, the concentration of certain entrepreneurs who rely exclusively on public sources of funds, entrepreneurs who would not survive if there were no state budget, local budgets, which exclusively draw such budgets. It's very difficult to establish such a connection. There is one example that from my county where it is visible from the findings, which even went through certain judicial bodies, that there was the establishment of numerous companies and companies d.o.o. J.D.O.O. A path that tried to cloud the trace, the movement of assets that was rented at one time in a company, went through a series of other companies, to return to this one. And we actually see that there are organised groups that are trying to disrupt market relations. Sometimes it's enough to say that there are agreements on the subject of public procurement. Unfortunately, and now within the depopulation that we have, a reduction in labour force, certain entrepreneurs recognize the opportunity that there may be no other offer or that the offer is very limited, so it goes to the economic arrangement. And somehow I get the impression that a really one-year-old only goes away, I'm going to say Colloquially eliminates such expenditure, that a number of entrepreneurs would report pre-fashion settlements, or they'd go straight into liquidation, because they'd simply be left with an object they'd learn to wear. So then it's no wonder that when a certain organized group comes along who calls himself a borg and who finds new objects on some of their trails, one day it's HEP, the next day it's Agrokor, the third day it's some third firm, but they're always there. So we have a concentration, very demanding, difficult to determine in their actions, but I feel what happens and by certain phenomena, we know that they were involved in it. That's why I wish we could say today in the context of the Competition Protection Agency we really have a really capacitated team that won't be afraid of any challenges. I'm not saying that someone's afraid now, but simply when you're too weak, you can't reach everything, you can't be systematic enough, because the revenue they make ends up in the state budget. So is it not the best motivation, when you earn something, when you sanction such negative phenomena on the Croatian market, that then that income belongs and that it becomes actually one motivation to not only earn, but the forged practices, especially when we see that we have not even provided the right infrastructure conditions because this 11 million, even 1.5 million kuna, the agency pays only for rent space. Because really, we don't have the space that I would even say to the adequate one where whoever was there, there must be more quality space, more operational space and whose income could be both compensation and new funds to invest in additional training of people. The law on unfair commercial practices, we gave them a certain number. A person, six people to hire, I don't know how busy he is now, the new six are employed by new people. But when we look at what the volume is, then I wonder if we've actually determined enough, whether it's 6 or it's supposed to be 16 or even more, to make a real one of the pressures, which will then result in as many indications and solving the problem of unfair commercial practices. Finally, I will say that Croatia, not only the EU, but Croatia definitely needs such an agency. We need a much better agency than this, seeing that they have greater material conditions in which they will be able to handle better quality in the end, perhaps their solutions will solve the many political recommendations that we are leading here and where individuals are working through parliamentary representatives to also point to such violations and to many others. I wish we didn't have to be at all the location or the person these individuals are coming to, but to come to the Competition Protection Agency and that only at the end, when the report comes, when we see that it was effective on the Croatian market to say Bravo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101538	Thank you, too. Now it is the HDZ Club and Mr Domagoj Milosevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101539	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear principal Mr. Cerovac. Here, and this October, as well as last October, we are faced with your report for the past year. I will try not to repeat it again last year, but I will reiterate the importance of your agency, the importance and the work you do and praise your further arrangements for the transparency of work and your presentation of your results, given that regularly, as we see the reports you are responding to and the inquiry of the journalists and publish the decisions and statements and each month you issue so-called. Information educational... I think we could look up to you in the public administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compared to 2016, I think the most important news is the fact that the agency has become competent to implement the law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain, I will look at that at the very end of today's presentation. In today's report, or last year's report in which we are discussing today, I was in fact most impressed by the fact that the High Administrative Court is in all 9 cases, i.e. The verdict dropped the charges against your agency. I think 9 out of 9 is quite a good result, but if not more than that, I was impressed by the fact that Croatia is classified in a high 2 place after the urgency of the UK's conduct with an average length of judicial proceedings in the area of competition for about 200 days, says EU Justice Scoreboard statistics. I stress that above all in the context of the general dispute of many justifications of complaints against our judiciary, it would be nice to hear in fact what your secret is and I don't know, the secret perhaps of the High Court of Justice. And maybe it's a secret says statistics on yours that out of the 645 items in the last year, it's only 18, that's very good, I count something below 3%, if all the state services were to handle things like that, we'd be far away. You've had a lot of work to do with the different acquisitions, the mergers on the market, what I'm particularly pleased with, already mentioned here today in the potion, which is that you've dealt with both the permitted and the illicit concentration on the telecommunications market. I hope that the efforts, I believe not only of your agencies, will bear fruit and that the third independent competitor in that market will survive and survive. So far, I think that Croatian citizens these 27 years have been able to bear witness whenever the market works and when competition is serious, quality and good, then all of them benefit from it, both Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. From the European Commission, your report says, you received 390 notes of the concentration you solved. What we would be interested to hear here, which is perhaps, we read regularly about the grand fines of the Brussels administration, let's say by digital corporations, how you participate, and how that money might be distributed, given that we know that there are very planned resources in the European budget, which is good, so that you plan what is probably not planned and these are hundreds of billions of penalties to digital corporations or IT corporations, so we'd be interested to hear if you have any idea how much further that money is shared. Once again, I, as last year, will commend your insistence in the application of the Institute of Measures and Obligations by entrepreneurs who, without speaking to administrative criminal measures and without conducting long-term and expensive procedures, are the fastest possible re-establishment of competition to one of the markets. I think it's one good and efficient way and it would be good if some other part of the meaning of state administrations were to act so quickly and effectively not going into long-term procedures at the end of which we all either forget or no one else has any use for it anymore. If they weren't just praises, I have one comment, and this is what we read in the report that although Croatia is unfortunately still a member of the OECD, you are actively participating in what is commendable in the OPECD Competition Committee, but for many years you have participated in their seminars in Budapest, partly paid costs by the Hungarian agency. I think it's kind of okay to save money, but I hope we're not so poor, so last year I'm gonna ask the government to give you extra money, maybe at least assign the government so much money that you don't have to go to the Hungarian expense of the next counseling session, it kind of hurts me humanly. As far as I read in the report, you have done everything together with the same number of employees as in 2016, says the report 44, but also express a clear complaint that the clause "two for one", so two have to leave to get one job people, fail in time to hire, educate professionals. I am personally a great advocate of this two-by-one principle and a general number of cuts in the number of employees in the state administration, but perhaps we could make an exception for you. Here, in the end, I said that I would still touch on this new competence that the agency has, which is the implementation of the Law on the Prohibition of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Supply Chain, the law came into force in December 2017. What we witness in Croatia and beyond, there is a further consolidation of trade everywhere, and this means a marked asymmetry in the negotiating force between traders on the one hand and suppliers on the other. This law adopted in the Croatian Parliament in December 2017 and in fact its strict implementation is important to all of us, so all citizens and customers but also to Croatian medium and small producers or suppliers and farmers of trade chains, and I think that especially since we have a very strong tourism sector in Croatia, but also because of all these farmers and producers, we have a special obligation to provide them with equal opportunities and I will dare tell them if it is possible, of course, under the laws, existing and regulations and more than equal opportunities. Namely, every country, I think we will agree, has the right and obligation to ensure the survival and development of its small and medium-sized farmers and ours, given what I said a little while ago, the opportunities actually provided by tourism, which is indirect exports, precisely for these agricultural producers, I think we need to focus specifically on the position of these producers, medium and small, of course and large. I am sure that in the coming years we will have discussions not only in Parliament but in the wider part of the public there will be discussions on this subject, it is often a topic and many media, and I would just like to conclude that in the 21st century there is nothing more important than the triangles of energy, food and water, or the energy of food and water. Often in our Parliament we hear debates which times and fierce arguments more or less meaningful but what I am sure we will all agree and that is that we are equally all in this assembly ready to support absolutely every measure that will lead Croatia on the path of both energy and food independence and I hope and believe that your agency will contribute to this by doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101540	Thank you, too. Let's move on, sir, now Mr. Goran Aleksic will speak in front of the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101541	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Cerovac, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, dear citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At the beginning when I had a replica, I asked a hypothetical question. I asked Mr. Cerovac a question if it would be determined that some 8 legal entities have negotiated unfair and injure contractual provisions with nearly 200 thousand Croatian citizens if it is determined that, on the basis of such unfair and worthless contractual provisions, 15 billion kunas from Croatian citizens have been robbed, which means that an extra profit has been achieved above that which is legal. In this case, it can be considered that these 8 legal entities are associated with the cartel organisation. Of course, I was talking about Croatian banks and it's not really about Croatian banks at all, it's about foreign banks that work in Croatia. These are banks owned by Italian, Austrian, Hungarian and Russian masters. And what I said has already been ruled court. Therefore, the Court found that the banks had negotiated these 8 banks, that they had negotiated unfair and harmless contractual provisions on a variable interest rate in all currencies, both in Swiss and in kunas and in euro, in all currencies, the court found. Citizens are already receiving litigation, but these are civil disputes, but what the state is missing is that it punishes banks for such behaviour. In modern countries, advanced democracy is being punished because of the bank's behavior, banks are being punished in America, Germany, I don't know where yet, but I do know that banks are being punished for not being fair, not knowingly and unfairly doing business, for setting results. Let's remember the case of euribors and things like that. However, in the Republic of Croatia, it avoids punishing banks, I don't know what the real reason is. And if they were punished, we would come to a bigger GDP, there would be a better budget, more employment, a higher standard of Croatian citizens. I doubt it, I will not argue that they are established in the cartel but I doubt that 8 Croatian banks owned by foreign banks are joined in the cartel through the Croatian banking association. The Croatian Banks Association in my opinion is a cover for the cartel, an association of foreign-owned banks. Of course, there are some other banks, but some other banks didn't behave like that. First of all, the HPB owned by the Republic of Croatia did not behave in this way, so it did not negotiate a currency clause for the Swiss franc, nor did it negotiate a variable interest rate that was changed by the decision of the Bank. Therefore, the HPB did not apply such unfair business practice. And now I'm going to say what it's all about, I've already said it many times, but Mr. Cerovac is here and I want him to hear me because he'll probably get a proposal to initiate the procedure within his jurisdiction. His agency to initiate proceedings under its jurisdiction against 8 convicted banks. So, hypothetically, the answer was that, in this case, they might be suspected of being a cartel association, and since we already have the power to establish that they have negotiated unfair and thus worthless contractual provisions, and that all of them in order means that there is also a legitimate doubt that these banks are truly associated with the cartel. What's this about? The Law on Mandatory Relations makes it very clear and unequivocal to what contractual provisions must be, and this applies to both consumers and legal persons. Contracting provisions must be specified. When are they determined? They shall be specified when the contract provides for the information on the basis of which the contractual provisions or contractual obligations are to be executed. What did the Croatian banks do? They did not apply the Law on Mandatory Relations but are, in addition to all consumer contracts, good at all but in more than 90% of consumer contracts, they included contractual provisions on a variable interest rate that is changed by the decision of the Bank. What does that mean? This means that they have negotiated a contractual provision that depends solely on the bank's will, on the will of the lender. In this way, the interest rate at that, such a contracted provision, the bank could change it when it wanted to, as it wanted to do to the legal maximum. That's not allowed. The contractual provision on a variable interest rate or any other contractual provision must be specified. And the banks later pulled out, saying they didn't have precisely defined elements that must have made up the interest rate. Banks are pronounced for something that's total nonsense. It's irrelevant, it didn't have to or write anywhere because it says in the Mandatory Relations Act that the contractual provision must be determined and that it must have data. So they had the breadth and freedom to negotiate the data on the market, whichever corresponds to them if the other Contracting Party agrees. And the wonders of the legal people have agreed in the right way the interest rate, amazingly and amazingly. They agreed with legal persons an interest rate consisting of a fixed margin and a variable parameter which is a market element and which can be monitored on the market. How is it that at the same time they have agreed with legal persons the correct interest rate and with consumers an illegal interest rate? Do you know how that's possible? By being one of the weaker parties that does not understand the economy, which does not understand the right and has exploited the fact that the CNB has done nothing in this case and has negotiated massively illegal contractual provisions. On 13 June 2014, it was ruled that 7 banks thus negotiated this unlawfully, unfairly and thereby injureably, and this year on 14 June 2018 the last bank was also convicted of such unfair behaviour. And they're all joined in HUB. To me, it justifiably raises the suspicion that they've arranged it together under the table, of course it's not signed anywhere. But they agreed under the table that they would all negotiate such an unfair interest rate. How is it possible that all banks are negotiating such an unfair interest rate? As it is possible that no bank has changed that practice since it has been shown to them that such practice is not right and has continued to negotiate an interest rate until 10 January 2013, when the legislator said that the exact interest rate must look. And the confirmation of what I'm saying is true is the Supreme Court's decision this year of March 20th of this year, the Supreme Court decides the following is based on one revision. The bank requested an audit because it was condemned in a civil procedure to agree with a consumer economist an unfair contractual provision. And that contractual provision was that the interest rate was changed by the decision of the bank and it was decided that the bank had to return one decent amount of money to the consumer and then the bank complained and, in fact, it was not a complaint, it was a review of the Supreme Court, after it became a powerful decision of the county court, the audit required that the bank be determined that, since 10 January 2013, everything was fine because the law prescribed the way the interest rate should look, and then the bank then defined the interest rate on the basis of the law, I say it did not contract, defined the interest rate so that it consisted of a margin and a variable parameter and then, in the court, it claimed that because it had defined it now is okay. But the Supreme Court said no, ma'am, it doesn't hold water, it doesn't hold water because you didn't negotiate it with the consumer. So defining something and negotiating isn't the same. Why am I saying that? I am speaking because on the basis of the indictments in infringement proceedings under the consumer lending law, we could also make several billion kunas into the budget because of the illegal behaviour of Croatian banks in foreign ownership, and we did not do so either. So what do we do now? We now leave it to consumers to go to courts on their own and to get their own final victory and their own money in courts. So how many people do you think will go to court for that? I don't believe that more than 20% of the possible 150,000 per Swiss franc and another 100,000 per euro and kuna. I don't believe that more than 30, 40,000 people are going to sue, and there are almost 200,000 people on the case because people are inert, when they solve the problem, when they pay off the loan no longer think about it, there's a systemic solution missing. As one Germany solves systematically, so order the banks to return entry fees to all, as one Austria solves, which does not impose anything on banks, but, therefore, on the sides of the ministry that cares about the protection of consumers, put out one template, a proposal for a lawsuit and says, and these banks have also agreed with you such and such an interest rate, if that is the case and so take this template, sue the bank and take your money. And us, what are we doing? We leave people at the mercy of the courts, the courts are on their side this time, everything is decided, we simply as individuals rarely go to court and I don't believe that more than 20% of the people will sue, I don't believe. But let's go back to this competition. Why doesn't the Republic of Croatia want to punish the unconscious and dishonest banks? Why? That's a question I don't know the answer to. In addition, I was now talking about the interest rate, in these loans in which the Swiss franc currency clause is negotiated, are additionally burdened by the growth of a rate that is disproportionate. EU Court President Cohen Lenarts said clearly and loudly the banks must return to consumers all the disproportionate rates they have charged on the basis of the contractual provisions on the currency clause, said the EU court president, not by Ivica off the road, but by the President of the EU Court of Justice, and his statement is based on some rulings by the previous EU court which are binding on the Republic of Croatia and courts in the Republic of Croatia. I will certainly launch activities towards the Competition Protection Agency to initiate foreign-owned proceedings against Croatian banks that have negotiated an unfairly variable interest rate that is changed by the bank's decision. And especially others who have negotiated both an unfair and thus a worthless contractual provision on the Swiss franc currency clause. These banks are obliged to negotiate such contractual provisions by seizing Croatian citizens for a total of, probably more than 20 billion kuna, due to Croatian citizens about 15 billion kuna because one part is returned through the conversion of credit, now these civil proceedings are coming, the Supreme Court has also decided that there is no limitation on these issues because the EU court's position is that, on the basis of unfair and harmful contractual provisions, restitution has to be carried out and even a changed case law worth 30 years in the Republic of Croatia because of consumer rights, and consumers are all of us, and you are behind me and you are ahead of me, we are all consumers and there is no matter who is an economist, who is this, who is, if it is unfair, is unfair to everyone, there are courts that judge as if someone is an economist or a lawyer he has to know so there is no obligation to pay back money. That's not true. Supreme Court judge Damir Kontrec made it clear and loud at a seminar in Opatija that what is unfair and found unfair is unfair for everyone. And we have to stick to it, and I think it's finally time to let the Croatian banking association know that what they did, that what their members did, that it was typical cartel behavior, and that for that cartel behaviour, members of the Croatian banking association must be punished. I repeat, I will launch activities towards the agency, and I will probably file, not me, but with my professional associates and the team, we will also file criminal charges against these banks because this is simply the kind of behavior that must be sanctioned. It is not enough to judge that consumers are right, but must be sanctioned as a warning to the future that it is no longer repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101542	Thank you, too. Now it's in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101543	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, here's a paradoxical situation. We have in front of us an annual report from an agency that does its work within the framework of its powers and submits a report that is extremely correct, with which you cannot practically honor anything and on the other hand what the Agency is dealing with and the general situation is a disaster. So it's this Croatian paradox, and we have all the reports that are wonderful and wonderful, but the situation is that God preserves you. How is that possible? What kind of word did I want to use, and then psychiatrists would go crazy right away because they say it's a diagnosis, that it's not used in illustrations and metaphors, but I was going to say, so what's wrong with us? Are we really a market company or is that just nominal? What can the agency possibly do to show, to expose all those who prevent the functioning of the market society? Logic and the experience of the modern world suggests that the market society is defined in the right way and in social state protection mechanisms, with the discreet presence of the state in order to define the conditions of business in a way that would not discriminate on anyone, that it is, in fact, a society which then creates social wealth, social capital and creates a possibility and a real, material basis for implementing the right protection measures for all those who are in a way socially marginalised, depressed or in situations which they themselves have not contributed and which do as I say, depressed, those who cannot operate on equal terms in society. So it would be logical for every normal company to establish market mechanisms to create equal chances, competition, competitiveness, in order to create a new value. And what do we have? We have the fact that Croatia is listed on the global competitiveness list at 61st of 63rd places. So worse than us according to the criteria of this and the great international research is just Venezuela and Mongolia. And what are the criteria, what are the elements that make conditions for better competitiveness? Well, of course, there are a lot of them. Labour prices, tax rates, administrative barriers, corruption, and market functionality. And I don't know on which element they could be better than 61st place, so here's what we mention, if we want to be objective, there's God to keep you safe. Of course, it's not the agency's fault for our non-competitiveness and bad market conditions. It's the agency's fault that she's not screaming, which she doesn't publicly call and call because it's obvious from the plane that the state doesn't want a strong agency. If they have to continue to fire two government authorities under all criteria in order to hire one expert, then they are deliberately placed on their feet. This was not the criterion of either the Ministry of Social Welfare or the Ministry of Labour who hired 300 new employees. Why is it that this agency doesn't have 10 new people if it is estimated that we are burdened with terrible problems that threaten the freedom of competition? A colleague, Alexic, mentioned only the situation in a part of the financial sector relating to banks. See what's been going on in insurance companies lately, see how they blackmail people in the conclusion of health insurance policies and life insurance. How is it possible for a resuscitation to pay at 2/3 of what you've invested? Is that what anyone's into? Well, it's just a robbery. See what they did at the time when the state mentioned the possibility of raising compensation for supplementary health insurance. Everyone threw out a list of B medications, or on their lists, and they threw out B-lists, and they practically collected their shelves. Has anyone run off on the subject? Where's the Minister of Health? In surveys conducted among entrepreneurs, HIP is quite up-to-date, one of the key remarks that entrepreneurs have is unfair market relations. A lot of them complain they don't have equal treatment. Why? Because the whole state is, in fact, particularly the public sector towards private entrepreneurs, more complex clienteletic, so if you want cartels. Public secret that many entrepreneurs participate in systematic public procurement, it is about players who compete in one of the three bids deliberately give the cheapest to get the Pero job, on the other, to compete with Marko the cheapest and on the third one. And that's how they spin around in circles. I'm asking the question. How is it possible that Croatian Water experts in collaboration with local self-government units working on projects, large agglomeration projects assessed the works on these major projects of the rehabilitation of water, sewerage systems and wastewater purifier systems at 5 and that the lowest bids are now 6.5 or 7? What's going on? It's not a regular situation, it's not certainly the effect of the free market, logic would be the opposite. Agglomeration projects in large Croatian cities are now at risk. Or how is it possible to land on a micro-level? That the city council of the town of Vodice should pass a regulation prohibiting all the barcarols that are not from Vodice from bonding and selling their tourist arrangements, excursions to Kornati, how is that possible? You guys at the agency know about the case. The president of the city council of barcaroli from Vodice, and it takes years, battles, the agency has issued no idea how many opinions, and the city council is completely ignored. Here's the latest case, they say from the old town of Hvar, that it will ban the opening of the hostel. And you can imagine that, say, in a town in Croatia, someone forbids the opening of restaurants that serve for example. Chicken? I hope the agency responds to the papers. When surveying those who left Croatia, what are the reasons why they left? One of them is very high-ranking, feeling like they don't have a chance. When you ask them exactly what it means, then they say in such a customerelistic environment that I as a small entrepreneur who I tried to do I couldn't succeed because no one protects me, it can only be done if you're in political, family-related, traditional relationships with those who discuss public procurement, so the public procurement system, and in this conflict no one will protect us, not the judiciary, not the regulatory agencies. Which isn't weird because the regulatory agencies seem to be working. Whenever she says she needs more authority, more resources, more people, there's a shift of leaders. Whoever raised her head from all independent bodies, it doesn't matter if it's human rights or whether it's about the mechanisms for the protection of the market in certain activities, it's always a classic story. So does it make sense to put your head in the sand and say the report is great, but the situation isn't right? And so year after year. And so almost every activity we're talking about. Well, somebody's got to tell people something's wrong, something's in the system, a programmed error. Or we act like we have a functional society, we fool ourselves, and then 300,000 people go away because they don't want to live here anymore. Whoever enrolled the child in kindergarten or school will never come back. This is the first time in history since those big evictions because of the peronospora, if you want economic evictions in '70 and '80 and political evictions, the first time they've moved entire families with small children, not to go foster care to create conditions for the family to live and survive here, but to go all the way. We will not return them until we regain confidence that this is a land in which to live happily. So you can see that even the migrants won't, those who wait at the border so they don't want to go to Croatia at all, and that's the biggest shame for us, no one wants to live in this country, they just say let us through, for them every other EU country is better than us, and my heart hurts for it. What would you say from that joke that we're not a leper? Obviously we are. There's a voice coming out and amongst the bigger cowards of us that we shouldn't live here, let's think about it a little bit. What can we do to change both situation and perception? I would like to hear from the director of the agency, among other things, that he wants and asks, that he is given better conditions both material and financial and humane so that he can fight a battle to protect competition more effectively and faster. Someone told the courts in cases where the agency is on one side for an average of 200 days. And we're happy with that. Then when we compare, says we and Britain have that average. But how will we measure with countries where competition has 150 years of history? Where's the shame of stealing, where's the shame of tax evasion, where's the shame of hiring people black, so how are we gonna measure with them? It seems to me that 200 days long enough for people to give up and lose faith that there's nothing to do in this country. The Voice and HSU Club won't support this report, not because of what's wrong, but because that report doesn't talk about the real state of affairs, we'll be restrained around this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101544	We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101545	Thank you very much. Croatia should be a country of the same odds for all, however, the market, unfair commercial practice is what destroyed Croatian society, I can mention, I'll start from above, but I'll start from telecommunications, which I'm counting countless times and I'm saying it would be time to say loudly that it's time for teleopers in the Republic to behave as in their countries where they come from. The fact is that in their reports teleoperators are praised, that 40% of teleoperators are trying to win 40% in Croatia and 20% in the EU area, destroy competition, even hear it being set up, try to reach EVO TV and take over the entire TV channels that are in Croatia. Why and why we want to be in the EU, and the teleopers act like we're their declaration field, why we don't say it out loud to HACOM or anyone else, they don't have the courage. Monopoly, which teleoperators use in the Republic of Croatia after privatising our network, to one where our political elites at the time made it possible for the robbery of what our people were creating, to pay hugely, and now these teleopers do not pay the right of service. Very little, it's about billions. Even we here in the Parliament, when it was the Telecommunications Act, then we gave the amendment, i.e. The public debate has passed that they pay the right of service not only to property owners but also to property managers, because in Croatia it is known that land books are not arranged and that owners are not listed on their particles. Even during the public debate it went through, however, at that moment the day before the vote, the e-consultation had passed, already before, the president of HT had met with the diameter, it was deleted, we were giving the amendment here, we were giving the amendment, that teleopers paid the right of service, not only to the owners, because the ownership relationship was not well resolved but also to the property manager. Of course that didn't go away, because it was arranged the night before. So much influence is given by teleopers, that base stations, they put wherever they want. We ordinary people, when they're looking for an extension of their facility, their houses, their balconies, their apartment, the arrangements have to get the consent of the neighbors. They have to pay for the building permit in us, we don't need anything. They set up base stations on kindergartens, hospitals, schools, no matter what is in Croatia, allowed 890 times more radiation than in Paris or Vienna, for example. And they're doing well on the Internet. He gave it to the competition. That foreign companies in Croatia act as if we are their colony, we have made Croatia a colony of foreign interests and in telecommunications it is expressed and visible. They don't respect the spatial plans of setting up Athens pillars, the base stations, I don't need the right to serve, they don't need the consent of neighbors, they don't need anything, wherever they fall, even in the bell towers of churches. As an example, we have in Zadar, and otherwise mayors, local self-government, on... The fortress, but here's the bell tower, they should all be serving the people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Neither the bishops nor the priests, nor the mayors, the chiefs, should be shepherds of the teleperate. It's not theirs. There's a base station in the church bell tower. And the people are opposed, of course, because children live there too, that's Croatia. Interest, I call upon all mayors, commissioners, bishops, religious communities, their facilities, not to allow them to be exploited for the sake of Judah's plagues, foreign corporations. At the expense of health and public well-being. This should be said because they are not acting marketly, that Croatia is not a country of the same odds, but a country of monopolism, a country of interesting lobbies that are directly in state silent bodies, that is, in the case of telecommunications. I believe we'll be loud, it's the role of the Parliament, it's the role of you as an agency, a competition, that you'll be loud about this problem. I can't have a profit that they're making twice as big in the Republic of Croatia, but in other countries of Europe, not only the EU, and they're pulling it out. If they unfairly privatized it, now unfairly treats HR, I repeat it as a colony. We can go to agriculture, what kind of competition it is, when it all happened until recently to Todorovic, not only in agriculture, we see that representatives, such as Vujčić, who made it possible, I raised the criminal application, a year and a half ago, no answer, made it possible for 10 billion kn, the currency without cover to be used by Todorovic. And now he's the main representative of the end, the partner capitalism of Vujčić, which is... chosen on the day when the match was England Croatia in the early morning when it was a national charge, when we were proud of our representatives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man who threatened the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia has made it possible for our farmers, entrepreneurs, ten billion kunas to use Bianco because he was head of the Stability Council, financial stability in the Republic of Croatia. Shut up and the ministers and the governor. And me, I said last night, so I'll do it again. And I have a high school man to file a criminal report and here sits Shuker, former Finance Minister Lalovec, all former finance ministers who knew because they were in the Stability Council. Everybody's quiet. Why? Because they were addicted to them and there's no country the same chance that we... and an opportunity until it changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, we bothered them at the Most, that's a fact, we bothered them, and we were the dams of these fellow capitalisms. We asked for the replacement of Vujčić and others who are all along with what they should be protecting means the interests of the Republic of Croatia. He said only in agriculture, and we even know that Jakovina 2.5 billion that were to go to our peasants in Slavonia of Dalmatian Zagora went to the sister's OPGs. But he's not alone, we have a problem of the captain who, of course, is not from the HDZ and must not be played by Mr. Ervačić now and on the other hand we have another Pipunic, not playing in Slavonia their game. Agriculture is exclusively suited to individuals who are deeply bound by local self-government, institutions to the Ministry of Agriculture what family, what is connected in interest and monetary terms. It's in Slavonia, everyone knows that. This will be best told by the head of the municipality Marko who has a problem Marko Milicevic in Slavonia. Ask him what the pressures of these bloodstains of Croatian peasants who destroyed everything, all the incentives, all went to them. You didn't react. And public procurement should be spoken to I need time and the most obvious example is that in public procurement it is exclusively suitable for certain groups. That's what I was talking about a few days ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101546	Thank you. But you also have Mr. Sagar, so the conversation can continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101547	Thank you, Vice President. What? Dear fellow Bull, here's another picture when we talk about teleopers and... [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] their special services in terms of television. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine two stores in which one you have all the products except dairy products. You buy everything you need in a basket, you can't buy dairy products, you go to another store, there you have everything but bakery products. But to buy milk there they tell you now you have to buy all the products you bought already in this former store so you can buy bakeries and so on. So you have to take a complete package of all products to get to one specific product offered only by them or these others. Of course, it's about the sports televisions of MAX TV and VIP channels. It seems a Benigan problem, however, in terms of the Competition Protection Agency, it seems to me that this is a very serious problem because you can't choose a partical service but you have to buy the whole package in both houses. Here, that's what they use to make fun of themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101548	Mr. Bull, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101549	... The agency of course and the Competition Agency realizes that they are monopolies and that they can't do anything, they control and media certain, simply because the great advertising space of teleoperators, they have a huge influence and what the agency will think... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I just don't... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Neither does HACOM, they must be their players. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have... The influence around government and people, their lobbyists, and simply so much is their power that we are their colony and exploitation field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have too much influence and, of course, they will behave if you buy that package sportingly either way or I don't know that package that he'll behave however he wants me to condition what they want. They do whatever they want. They don't do it in Germany, so they don't come to Sweden. I wrote to the Swedish ambassador their teleopers behave in Sweden, an orderly state like ours. They don't behave like that in their countries, in our countries, because our institutions don't have the strength and all depend on those people who run those groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101550	Thank you, too. We don't have any other replicas. Mr. Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have an important report ahead of us, of course, that as representatives we must study it well and see how the situation is going on on the market, that is how the agency does its job as a single regulator, as one of the protectors of a fair competition in the Republic of Croatia. And what I can say at the beginning that although the Agency's indicators speak and suggest that there are no significant deviations and significant injuries in the Republic of Croatia I can say that I am not satisfied with the impact of the agency or with the capacity of Croatia to invest money in the Agency because when we see that there are 11 million kunas, when we see that 40 people who are very likely to do their job very diligently this is enough to say that this area in Croatia is still not capacitated as regards regulators to make supervision, right research, real, I would say real fuses and device insurance to keep our citizens safe. That's how you see three self-pronounced sanctions. Now, either Croatia is perfectly regulated and no one violates and uses its influence on the market and nothing behind the grain is good or we simply don't have the opportunity not to, I would say unfair and unfair situations in Croatia we solve. So it's about three cases of total punishment of 79 thousand kuna, so that's what I'd say, negligible, minor, almost said, at the level of a statistical error. Real jobs, real games are unfortunately still happening away from the eyes of the public far more trouble than the eyes of the public, normally that they are trying to play but taking place and away from the eyes of the agency. So that's what worries me and I'm not happy with it and that's how it is, you can see in yesterday's performance of the HDZ PR and Prime Minister Plenkovic and Martina Dalic who played a double dog and as if nothing had happened three or four months ago, Mrs Dalic has scandalously presented her scandalous book, scandalously quite cheaply and simply readly to Croatia as if it were working to get the Nobel Prize as if it were something, some even saying that this should be used in economic colleges, I warn the dean of colleges not to spoil their students and not to give them half-criminal, half gossip books to acquire some knowledge that should not actually be acquired. So Prime Minister Plenkovic acts as if Martina Dalic is a Malta not Milton Freedman or Paul Samuelson and will win the Nobel Prize for Economics or Schilling or Forbes Nash who won the Nobel Prizes from the Economy for Game Theory. Although these games played by Mrs. Dalic and Mr. Plenkovic do not fall for the Nobel Prize, they fall for the Mr. Turudić award from Zrinjec, so that is something where they could compete with these ideas, or these things that took place around Agrokor and around this entire web of partner agreements that they had inside HDZ and which eventually blessed HDZ representatives, ministers and Prime Minister Plenkovic himself who was present there. So it is a shame that in the Republic of Croatia it refuses to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament, and it is refused to debate in the Croatian Parliament because HDZ does not want the commission, does not want people, that the citizens of the Republic hear what it is and that they hear the truth but only want to hear the truth of Martina Dalic HANSA media who are publishers of that book and for which I have reason to wonder what their interest is to publish for free 45 000 copies of that book? What is their interest and whether the interest lies essentially in this report presented to us here by the gentleman from the Competition Protection Agency where it is shown that the share of the market in the publishing of the HANZA media, the daily newspaper 30% and there are others behind another house called... And on the other hand, their advertising revenues are more than this share that has another publisher. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means a very interesting question and whether it can be brought into line with who the Commissioner is and who, as a politician, is behind the Commissioners in Agrokor and all that is going on behind it. So once again I ask you here a question to everyone who is in the hall, which is the interest of it and which is why and how we are in Croatia being asked and whether we are still watching what is done in Agrokor and this advertising and competition protection work, given that they are both dominant in both retail and certain food industries. So there's a lot to hear, there's a lot to know, but unfortunately it's not in the interest of the state or the HDZ and at least to the comrades Martini Dalić and those who took tens and hundreds of millions of kunas from Agrokor where we are now being shown as a savior, as someone who would say once again, compete for the Nobel Prize, I say in a transfer of meaning that, such activities that took place there should compete for the County Court award in Zagreb and not for the Nobel Prize because of what it is about non-transparency, privileged information that one round of people had to do with Agrokor, and ultimately all this was confirmed and voted in the direction of the majority in the Croatian Assembly that raises hands, they will raise if Prime Minister Plenkovic, that's something to be said specifically. The second thing that concerns me in particular and needs to be looked at by the agency itself, means 80 and some items, 3 negligible penalties of 79,000 kuna, should only look at how much Google, Facebook and others pay EU penalties as sanctioned and how they try to capture any possibility that smells of market abuse and on this side I appeal to and ask the agency to seek greater funds, experts, IT professions, legal professions, whatever they need, just to protect our citizens from what is said not fair competition. So on that side, we're still far from the position we should have, and normally, that's when our partner deals happen in Agrodor and our partner celebrations like they did in the NSB two days ago. So this partner celebration will remain remembered as a paradox of the Croatian state that only in Croatia can such a thing happen the same as the only one in Croatia can, for example, write off today's debts in the city of Zagreb to people who have millions of euros on the basis of shelters adopted by the HDZ majority in the Croatian Assembly where under cover and under blackmail "so to leave it" so our mayor says, and look, you won't write off those who have then we won't write off to those who don't. So 7.5 thousand people have come to that list and those who don't have a place for us. And by every normal there is no place and on that side it is a paradox that happens in the Republic of Croatia and the paradox of the entire system that we have, which I am deeply convinced is nakaradan and why people leave Croatia. Unfortunately, the ruling party has come to terms with it, MPs are taking their salaries, will now go on the ground and rest a bit and Croatian citizens will continue from Croatia, Croatian citizens will still feel the injustice, Croatian citizens will continue to be rescribed and simply what is being imposed as a question is how long it can go in which way it should change. Obviously with this government with Andrija Plenkovic justice in Croatia and change will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101552	Now it's Mr. Tomislav Jagar's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101553	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Cerovac, fellow Members and colleagues, here, as regards the report itself, as colleagues and colleagues have previously said, there are no significant objections the report has been made in accordance with the rules and several real important ones of this report. What makes it extremely important to me is that what is already mentioned is that a small number of people who work at the agency itself, so you with a small number of people are corners. Extraordinary professional people, I see that education is theirs by the rule of high and we even have postgraduate studies, Doctor of Science. So, it is not a question of their expertise, you and these people are doing a big job, one of the important jobs that I think is to mention this feedback to the legislator, therefore, according to those who pass laws, in order to improve legislation. In this area as well as many areas of legislation, the Republic of Croatia has made significant steps, so it has implemented many EU provisions in its legislation and there is this discrimination between what we are introducing and what is happening on the ground in reality. And many times you have, and you've mentioned it in the report many times, not just your agency, many agencies that have been here, say and what do we do, we detect the problems I take out and then the whole story stops there. You warned that 15 years later our legislation with those criminal provisions that you could apply that you had had those powers at the time. And my remarks to Art. p. 15. p. 15. where you said education can't be done, it's not an objection to you, it's an observation to society and to all of us. We have excellent educational institutions, we have universities, we have excellent lawyers, experts, it's amazing that they can't go through these educations, of course, respecting that certain things have to, in accordance with, we are EU members and on external education, but also those experts, some that could educate our experts to bring them here to present it. But now let's go back to those things that we can read from this report. One of the key things, as I see the agency, when I'm talking about protecting competitions and protecting consumers, is that they're not being cut off, and that's a very important thing, that these things that we've talked about don't happen to consumers, these cases that I've been talking about in the replica of my colleague Bulju, that they're paying for a double one and the same service just to get another favor. Let's say these are examples of some of consumer protection. But what's even more important in this whole story, and these agencies of yours are entrepreneurs and their protection. So, except that the correct protection of competition should allow for the survival of primarily small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because they should be protected from those more powerful, with the role of course, states in terms of tax discharges towards these entrepreneurs, there is a third factor that you mention here in the report and you refer to p. 35th on a guidebook, revealing and reporting cartels in public procurement. It's an extremely important area, which is here, when the ministers of the economy come, they mention it, but as if it doesn't reach their ears, as if in this country it's irrelevant. The word is estimated you mention 15 billion in your report, somewhere I found 15% I found 14% of GDP going through public procurement. It's an average in the EU. It was in the Republic of Croatia 44.8 billion kn in 2016, of which 15 thousand contracts were made by public purchaseers, but watch out for 40,000 contracts of bagattel procurement. They're huge amounts. Adding more funds from EU funds is another 4 billion and 800 contracts. It is a huge area where there is room for such things that, above all, damage to development for the growth of healthy entrepreneurship, and the basis for major corruption. Because the estimate that only 10% of these funds and so much is the estimate that it ends up somewhere in private pockets, to be saved, that's 4.5 billion kn. With 4.5 billion kn, we wouldn't have any problem with educating any of the experts in the Republic that we have like this and which unfortunately, I mentioned to us in the introduction, going to Europe, and what hurts me, I mentioned it in the replica, I'm going to mention it again. A smooth young Catholic in the Republic of Austria makes a law that children from other countries cannot get a child's allowance because they are poor. Such an EU, I do not need such an EU. We didn't enter the EU, we didn't enter the funds, we didn't enter for the money, we have our pride. And that's why I'm saying, you don't have to stand there like this, you didn't have a bad intention, but why should we, so why should the others slap us enough, criticise themselves enough that these things still stand. Our people are now leaving in tears, breaking up from their families, going to the EU that starts treating them like this. Is this Europe more speed? Should we pull some strings maybe? I don't know what's going to happen in the future but these messages are certainly not good, and in that sense I'm just that remark. Let's get back to public procurement. Here's an example, I don't know if you can react here, who can react in this country, the 5C corridor competition is the cheapest offer that's worth 80.4 million kuna, I don't think it's important with VAT, I don't know, I don't think it matters at this point. The next bid that was higher is $87.6 million. The HAC cancels its tender because it says it is not in accordance with the law. Watch out HAC cancels the contest they wrote themselves. Then what's going on? The contest complains not of the one who got the job, who was supposed to get the job but of the one who got the job, who was supposed to get the job, but of the one who didn't get the job. He complains about cancelling the competition because he considers the contest to be conducted. And then the state procurement control commission adopts the appeal of the complainant, pays him 100,000 kuna for the cost of the complaint and, by official duty, cancels the tender. I don't know, it's visible from the plane, so I think. I'm telling you this because I'm aware of what you're dealing with and I'm mostly seeing your work, your entire agencies through legal regulations, through everything you're doing on official duty, it probably takes the most of your time, where you have some kind of plans. And I see you're acting on some complaints from the complainants, and you're mostly solving it, but these are the same things that are sensitive, so it's hard to draw a line where the market is going, in fact, where the market rule has been violated and where no market rule has been violated. So that your work would be effective, what your colleagues mentioned should... Surely more people, I don't know how many people are paid, I don't have, I don't know if you gave the data, I don't know if you gave the report individually, these people have to have powers, they have to be paid, they're professional, I don't doubt that these things in the Republic of Croatia would be prevented, and that's the main reason why people leave us because they don't trust the institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We want to have institutions but we don't want to strengthen them, like, we have them for decorations. And since people, two men can't dig 100 meters of canals in one day. It doesn't work, so it won't work and that's what we like to call on. And there's just one more thing that's been mentioned today and this case, the last case, related to the Agrokor case and this all that's turned out and around this book, when we're talking about the processes of society, be careful, they happen,... overnight, they happen, they pile up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I see here the agency has stopped this process of Mercator and Konzum over it, because of this process. I don't know what was built in before, what was done by HANF, other regulators who should be independent, what they were doing, what was happening, because what happened and what Mrs. Dalic wrote in the book so it's just the tip of the iceberg,... writes what happened at the end. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mostly we talk when the money's gone. The money's been drawn, he's, you know, he's got that law of gravity, levitation, money has its own special law even though he's been running around like this, going from pocket to pocket, out pocket to pocket. What an old accountant said where there's a will, there's always a trail of money. The money trail doesn't go away. I wish you a lot of success in further work and I say the report is correct. Unfortunately, he does not outline how colleagues have said very reality in the Republic of Croatia, but that is why you are not responsible, but rather those of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then other institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101554	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101555	Thank you very much. Mr. Žagar pointed out one problem that I said and it is a sub-capacitation to the Agency's human resources or illogically that Croatia employs only 40 people for such an important entity to regulate fair competition to prevent various manipulations, cartels, agreements, not fair relations, and in total it invests 11 million kunas a year. So markets that are as valuable as insurance, here's what you also have in the report somewhere 8 billion kuna, and now we should control whether there's any deal between insurance houses, they just can't do it. So on that side we have to give more support there and less in those parts which usually the ruling party uses extensively, and that's entanglement through the counties, municipalities, cities, Holding etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101556	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101557	Dear colleague Maras, so when we talk about agencies, the Competition Protection Agency. When we talk about the State Inspectorate, here's the law now that the State Inspectorate is coming back, and when we're talking eventually about the State's Attorney's Office. You know what the state's attorney has been saying here in Parliament for years? So says my inspectors at... They're going after the eyewitnesses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look, we can't have, we have to have these people if we want to control something, we have to give them powers, we have to give them funds, and we have to give them decent pay, but then there's probably gonna be results, they're just doing it as a decoration so we can fill in the EU form that we have and that agency, so we're trying to do something and there's no results.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101558	Thank you. We don't have any other replicas. Mr. Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101559	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome Mr. Cerovac, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and especially respected citizens who are now following us. We see that the most important segments of the Croatian economy increase the level of concentration from retail to small and large, teleoperators, the financial sector, and this is all expensive to say that this process is globalisation and liberalisation, which is in the Croatian case instead of a two-way movement, or so on. win win positions that we benefit from this globalisation as well as others that come to us, have proved that this is a one-way map and that we are constantly losing on all segments, and the surrounding countries, or their economic operators, are making money. The members of the Committee on Economy and Finance, the parties Change Croatia have analysed this phenomenon and I will present here the thoughts and findings on the banking system as it is, what degree of competitiveness is, whether there is a possibility of competition in terms of banking and who dominates the market and what are the consequences of all this. We are witnesses, respected colleagues and colleagues, a permanent process of bank reduction in Croatia. And increasing the level of concentration, and what does that mean? The share of several of the largest banks in the total banking system. It's usually used by the so-called. Herfindahl-Hirschman Index which shows the size of the 5 largest banks in the total banking system of Croatia. So I can tell you right now that five of the largest banks run or control 75% of the Croatian banking market. On the other hand, it's an extremely high degree of concentration and it's unsustainable. Therefore, the Competition Protection Agency, the CNB and everyone else should not have allowed that. What was particularly not to be allowed and what is constantly overlooked in Croatia is that foreign banks hold 90% of Croatian banking, I repeat, foreign banks hold 90% of Croatian banking. The previous HDZ governments, the SDPs thought it was normal, it's liberalisation, you know, it's globalisation, we have to open up, we're a small open economy, and so for 20 years they've been talking. And on the other hand, our banks went down, our economy went down. Because the bank isn't a respected colleague and a colleague is not a kiosk, it's not a sawmill, it's not a cookie factory. It's a specific money factory and it deals with the location of money. And money and banking is nothing more than bloodthirsty systems of every economy. So someone took our bloodstream and managed that bloodstream. And all those who think they can run some economic policy and realize some concept of development without having a significant share in the copper system are common ignorants, mercenaries, or forgive the expression of the thief. Let's now get some academic data that our Committee on Finance and the Party's economy has come to change Croatia. I said five of the biggest banks are held in their hands by 75% of banking. In doing so, Italian banks hold 46% of the Croatian banking market. Austrian banks hold about 30. 34% of the Croatian banking market. So Italians and Austrians, let's say they hold about 80% of the Croatian banking market. And when you look at those two countries of our friendly country, you see which one is the share of foreign banks in their banking, then you see it's negligible. Let's say '95. For years, the large Dutch bank ABN AMRO wanted to buy a mediocre Italian bank. Directly opposed by the governor at the time and refused. But on the other side of the Adriatic, you could do whatever you want. Here you see, dear citizens who have led this dear Croatia so far. Who explained to you that what's done well. And today, sir, Mr. Cerovac, in your report, I have not noticed a single report on the degree of concentration and competition, the possibility of banking. Do you think it's, it doesn't matter or you're going to explore it next year, I don't know what the orientation is, so you see this is what you need to talk about, this is too important. Let's go back a little bit more, you know that I'm not talking about the words, let's get more data from the official statistics. Let's see what the sources of financing of Croatian banks are. In 2006, foreign banks participated in sources of Croatian banks, banks in Croatia with 18%. 2011 with 21.5% and 2017 with 2.9%. I can't draw another conclusion than to see at the end of 2017 foreign banks were withdrawing their funding from Croatia. For what reason? Or because of the imperceptibility of what, and the government assures us that they're all booming or because of the great risks that are coming. On the other hand, who was the most involved in financing Croatian banks? Here, listen to this data. In 2006, 80% of Croatian banks' funds amounted to deposits from Croatian citizens and businesses. In 2017, our domestic deposits account for 95% of the sources of financing of all banks in Croatia. We here don't need to have an economic college to conclude that foreign owners literally make 95% use of domestic battery to lend us and allot our battery. So from that old saying of Tudjman's Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket, there are obviously several kunas left. I don't know what the current HDZ thinks about it, probably left Tudjman's doctrine a long time ago. Now, what to say at the end of this whole story. There's a question of who's taking care of all this at all. Small banks have been haunted on the Croatian banking market by the CNB in recent years. You have 27 banks in Croatia today and there were twice as many of them there after the war. They're gone. The previous governors simply put them on a hit list with a diagnosis that the loans they were handing out were insurmountable. Thus, regional banks in Slavonia, Dalmatia and other parts of Croatia were destroyed. So do we have an example in the EU of how it is done. In Germany, these little banks, so-called. cooperative, cooperative banks that finance local business and infrastructure, they account for about 11% of the total assets, but 2/3 of the total number of banks. You see how capillaryly that banking system is developed. So, I don't have time to talk about this widely, not to be a lecture, but I invite you fellow citizens to punish all those who have destroyed the Croatian banking system in the next election, together we have paid for its recovery of more than 60 billion kuna. It is the biggest expenditure, the cost the state budget in the history of the Republic of Croatia had, it is neither shipbuilding nor agriculture, anything else. We paid the most for the recovery of banking, over 60 billion kuna. We change Croatia when it comes to power, it will launch financial reform and we will change this intolerable state and our accumulation will dominate us. There'll be a market, but we'll make rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101560	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101561	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinovic. It would be interesting to hear how you think that in these circumstances the agency can do this kind of surveillance. Of course, the agency is only in one segment competent, the Croatian National Bank is much more important as the regulator of the banking system market and it would be interesting to see how you see that it can be connected to the agency, especially when we talk about this weak number of people or a small number of people who work there and in some ways simply are not able to do so. So they should get a certain application, and on the other hand, I say the CNB is there competent as a regulator to check all of these allegations that you're talking about and all of this to which you're calling. So that's one of the concerns you'd like to explain to the Croatian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101562	Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101563	Thank you, colleague Maras, for this matter. That's what I forgot to say earlier, so it's pretty clear if 5 banks control 75% of the market that it's one cartel banking system. It resulted in all these problems about Swiss, RBA savings credit cooperatives, interest rates of citizens, etc. So this institution that should edit the banking system, the CNB, I said a long time ago, is neither Croatian nor national, nor central, nor bank. When we come to power we will only then turn this institution into a CNB to be a central bank, and these citizens don't know our colleague Maras that the CNB in the last year and a half achieved a loss of 3 billion 800 million kuna, we repeat 3 billion 800 million kuna. Such a loss was neither Agrokor nor all the expensive shipbuilding, nothing else in this country and ate the wolf donkeys.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101564	Thank you. And now, in the end, Mr. Mladen Cerovac will speak on behalf of the motionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I won't be bothering you very long. I'd just like to say two or three things that stayed in the air. First of all, the esteemed MP Panenic said the report said that the agency was founded because it is wanted by the EU. I'm pleased to say that the agency founded this HS in 1995. when we still didn't know what a long turn and a back road to the EU was waiting for us. So, simply HS was recognized, the Republic of Croatia recognized the need to exist such an agency. So she's been operational since 1997. For the simple reason that it was not possible to find experts who could actually deal with it in contrast, for example. Today, I will mention to Albania that has been schooling its competition experts in America and the UK for years. So, they're going to be very, very, very educated at it. Which, perhaps, the Republic of Croatia should consider making some kind of scholarship or other. The other thing is, a respected envoy, Milosevic, said he was a representative of clause 2 for 1, but understood the agency's needs. I also think that I'm a cartoon, but I think that while I've been working 40 years in the state administration, 40, at the same time there are 20,000 of these officers too little at the same time. That cake should be shared. But in the agency, the agency prevents this clause 2 for 1, there's a situation, it's not such that there's a natural spill, there's young people, we're leaving the experts, that's the problem. We're getting the best of them. And finally, I would like to thank all the representatives who have recognized that the agency is actually under the capacitation that it needs to be helped because a simple state that does not help and does not believe in its institutions will be difficult to get out of the transition period. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101566	Thank you, too. You have three replicas. The first replica has a gentleman, looking for Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101567	... Vice President, Mr. Cerovac, your last line is really saying everything. [[You don't understand what I'm saying.]] Which you said that a state that does not encourage its institutions, does not strengthen, cannot expect either development or anything else. So you see the DORH, the State Audit, the Competition Protection Agency. So the state makes them weak, you see, as far as pay goes, places to work, working conditions. Because in a country like this, such a ruling coalition, you see how it works, on which the foundations of clienttelism, it would rather not have any of these institutions. She doesn't need those institutions. She knows everything, everything happens across the street, and you, like these institutions, are the only ones that are in their way. We will strengthen your institution and these others. That's why we need to change the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101568	Time. Okay. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101569	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Cerovac, for saying that the Agency has been undermined, and here I agree with you that this institution should be strengthened, especially since you have received a new job. This is the control of the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Unfair Commercial Practices in the Food Chain, so this question is whether you have information from these six months or seven implementations of that law as far as there have been observations of suppliers, because in contact with them, we know that not all commercial houses signed new contracts in time with suppliers, and we see that there are problems in the placement of apples, potatoes, that they are sold under producer prices, and that what some suppliers say is now that everything has become unfair. So the Agency cannot, with such a small number of people, get a new obligation, and with such small financial incomes, that is, the salaries of such employees to carry out these tasks in a quality way. We're asking for it to be fixed, and I believe you'll agree to that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101570	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101571	I think the Honorable Representative Shucker has asked a similar question, so the Agency is in these, from the full application of the law that started 1. 4th of this year, in fact, it started a total of 162 procedures if I put that paper now, so let me say, 162 cases were opened, in 29 of them started administrative proceedings, so 29 of them found that there were serious indications that there was a disturbance, there was abuse in the sense of the law of non-compliance with commercial practices. Just one more sentence, so they're being followed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, and it takes time, I think the first results will be somewhere in the 11th month or at the end of the year, the first procedure that will be completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101572	Thank you very much, Mrs. Juričev- Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101573	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, so Mr. Cerovac, you said your task is to protect competition and ban unfair commercial practices. As I come from Dalmatia, where tourism is the basic activity, our entrepreneurs and guests meet, I would say with unfair commercial practice where shops work 24 hours, bakeries also, and sell alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, sell warm sandwiches and the like, and are unfair competition to catering facilities like fast food and similar, which cannot work beyond 22-24 hours, possibly two hours. Don't you think that, too, those participants in the food supply chain that you listed here should be protected in some way?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101574	So, the caterers don't include, the entrepreneurs you listed as bakers, and some other entrepreneurs, they don't act at all on the independent market as caterers, so they're not competitors, and the question is, do they have permission to carry out such activities, I'm not sure, but I think it's regulated by the Trade Act. So it's not the Agency's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101575	Thank you very much, I'll conclude the debate and we'll vote when we get the conditions, and they'll get it starting at 12 hours when we start voting and we'll meet again here. Now break to 12 o'clock. It's 11:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-31-0.u101576	Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2017, the Reporter is the Competition Protection Agency, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for, 1 abstention and 1 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent board.
