ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65890	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Live Wall and the SNAGA Club, I ask a ten-minute break to discuss the activities that I have launched in the last two weeks and which are very important for the Republic of Croatia in my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65891	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65892	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm looking for a ten-minute break to talk about the Agrokor situation, or unnecessary withdrawal or payment of money from Agrokor for consultants who earn the great fees. I'm a little worried, though, because there's no Parliament analyst Genner here to report behind me, but I hope you find a decent replacement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65893	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65894	Thank you. I would like to request a ten-minute break if I were to talk about addiction in Croatian society Dependence yes, devastating consequences of addiction. [[President: Addiction?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65895	Comrade Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65896	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the SDSS club, I request a ten-minute break to discuss Croatia's foreign policy position at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65897	Thank you. A colleague of Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65898	Your Honor. I am looking for a ten-minute break to discuss discrimination in the health system in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65899	Okay. I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65900	Thank you very much. Mr. President and I are looking for a ten-minute break to discuss the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65901	Thank you. Nine-fifty follow-up. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, respected colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65903	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to say a few words about what I've been running for the last two weeks. First of all, last week was a debate on the Credit Institutions Act, and I have proposed seven amendments, which will probably be on vote today, so I ask you to be on board for these amendments. The government of the Republic of Croatia has accepted one of these amendments in some way because it has proposed its amendment that my amendment has been modified and that it is satisfied with that part, however, unfortunately no amendment has been accepted that would finally end the interest rate of Croatian banks. An amendment has not been adopted which would finally stop the application of unfair and illegal fixed interest margins that banks have voluntarily and outside of the contract defined and the Credit Institutions Act is exactly the ideal place to prevent this from happening and then later amendments to the Consumer Credit Act determine the methodology on which finally banks will have to comply with the law and with Roman law at the end of the day. The second thing I launched, I referred to our Prime Minister Plenkovic, a representative question asking him whether or not the Government of the Republic of Croatia would prepare amendments to the Consumer Credit Act to determine the methodology for determining fixed interest margins in variable interest rates for all those loans in which these margins were never agreed but also for converted CHF loans in which banks applied fixed margins from the end of 2013 rather than margins agreed at the beginning of a contractual relationship which is not in accordance with Roman law, which is not in line with the principles for the conversion of the zero contractual provisions. In particular, the conversion of the zero contractual provisions must be done in such a way as to apply the conditions applicable at the beginning of a contractual relationship. In addition, I offered to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia co-operation, I offered to personally assist him and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the arbitration dispute that the Union credited and perhaps other banks launched in Washington against the Republic of Croatia because of the conversion of credit with the Swiss franc currency clause. I also offered that Franak Association is available because Franak has the necessary experts, we are all deep into it, we understand the problem well and we can help the Government to cope more easily with the unfair banks that have launched arbitration in Washington instead of the judicial process being conducted here in the Republic of Croatia. So banks have no confidence in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia, do not trust EU law, so they started arbitration in Washington to seek their rights, which I personally and many of the legal experts I have been talking to consider illegal. This arbitration must not be accepted and according to what I have seen on the sites of the arbitration centre, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has referred a preliminary question to which it must be answered there in the arbitration centre itself whether such arbitration is at all permitted. Well, I hope, according to this, that arbitration will one day be ad act and that it will not run there, but the banks will, if they want to exercise their rights, still start certain court proceedings here where it belongs. And finally, from Plinarco d.o.o. I asked them to deliver the loan agreement last year, we are publicly speaking Minister Goran Maric. In this loan agreement, it is reportedly agreed an early repayment of the 240 million kuna loan. The exit fees for early repayment of loans are illegal and unfair. Me and the experts I'm working with, we know what a fair loan must look like, what a legitimate loan must look like, what a contract must look like in which contract provisions are legal and therefore we asked Plinarco d.o.o. to deliver that information to me, to deliver to me the contract and annexes if there were, as well as to notify me of the change in interest rates if interest rates were changing. We will analyse this contract and we will proceed in accordance with the analysis. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to see what the contract says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65904	We're going to another debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65905	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. The masks fell, now we know and we see why, in essence, what was most important to the HDZ Government and Andrej Plenkovic when Lex Agrokor was brought in, they were neither workers nor Croatian economy nor domestic suppliers. There was an obvious group of people, who were about to enter Agrokor and who from there were supposed to get big, fabulous, million-dollar fees and thus get rich in the crisis that happened in the Republic of Croatia. To try to tell you a little bit and chronologically our citizens that the matter was happening, 6.4 was brought to the Croatian Parliament lex Agrokor, 10.4. was named Ante Ramljak and Minister Dalic and he walked into Agrokor’s tower, 12.4 was published by Ante Ramljak by his advisers. He chose them, Ante Ramljak chose them, Alten Capital, Texo Management who by the way his former firm of his partner, Šavoric and partners of the law firm and Laco, the public relations agency, which at the time worked for Minister Dalic, i.e. the Ministry of Economy. So Ante Ramljak and Martina Dalić chose Alten Capital, Texo Management, Šavoric and partners and Laco PR. After that, only after that comes the selection of consultants to restructure a large international company, 25.4. AlixPartners get a job, a contract is signed, and they become partners in the restructuring of Agrokor. What happens now? That AlixPartners chose these very subcontractors, Alten Capital, Texo Management, Šavoric and Laco and imagine what, as domestic experts, he started paying them millions of fees. The weekly fee of Alten Capital and Texo Management according to what we read these days in the media is 250,000 kuna, i.e. in a month one million kuna for the jobs they do. Those companies they chose, Martina Dalic and Ante Ramljak, their partners, their dependants, or those who worked with them. The question arises, the question arises, did they suggest that the AlixPartners take these companies? Which is why such fees have been made, and why these companies have not made such fees in Croatia before. The company Texo Management, according to reports, publicly available in its business in 2015 and 2016, has incomes that are much lower than it will make from this deal with Agrokora. It is also available on the website of FINA and you can see in 2016. Texo Management 2.5 million revenue, pardon million and 200 thousand kuna revenue in 2015. 2.5 million kunas of income. Only from work with Agrokora Texo Management will make 10 million kunas. This job was given to him by Ante Ramljak with the patronage of Martina Dalic, which is essentially the same circle of people. This is seen by the fact that they were chosen before, before a partner was selected who outside is doing restructuring. So they chose these people before the Americans came to work at all and it wasn't the Americans who, by chance, chose those very companies that Martina Dalic and Ante Ramljak, who make 200 thousand kuna a week. The workers in one Super Conzum, all the ones you see there, working, earning as much as in one week's Texo Management building. It is a shame and now you can see, since Andrej Plenkovic has been silent for 3 days, Andrej Plenkovic does not react, Andrej Plenkovic obviously covers this, and Andrej Plenkovic has made it possible for Martini Dalić and Ante Ramljak to reward their people so richly that these people earn money on the crisis in Croatia millions of dollars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65906	3rd debate, dear colleague Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65907	Dear colleagues, there is one topic that is not much to talk about, but that totally destroys Croatian society, these are addictions of different species, cubes, drugs and other things. Here they come every day here to the Croatian Parliament, 2, 3 grades of high school students, they seem to be me, lost in time and space, they know some things, most of them do not adapt to the present life and cruelty of this life, which is cruel. I don't know what their teachers are like. I realized that some foundations have full information, they have the Internet, it's called... but cannot classify critical information from non-essentials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the violence the last thing we saw, and now you've got the Internet, it's all happened before. I was in Canada, Catholic school every time there was a lunch break, they were beating each other up between Catholic school and Protestant school across the street. There was no Internet. It's over. In the army, there was a Canadian army pounding every Friday where the shower was, the Foreign Legion. Look at you have the Internet, again the Internet. The grandfatherhood, the rule of grandfathers in the Russian army where you have initiations not only in Russian, other armies. The Russian army has the highest percentage of mortality in the armies in peace. What's going on? We have data in Croatia. What about Croatia? We have 200,000 alcoholics, at least 100,000 gambling addicts, 11,000 drug addicts, I think 150 died of an overdose last year. We have data on Bosnia and Herzegovina, the neighbouring state. We have tax administrations, 50 million conversion marks have been spent on antidepressants, and a billion conversion marks have been spent a billion marks spent on the cube. But it's not over for us. There's a wave coming in here, and that's legalizing drugs. Now we've heard that Norway will legalize drugs. Marijuana really is such a harmless drug. When you spray her with a PSP, so-called. The PSPs outside calling for angel dust in the west, and in fact, the devil's dust may sometimes wake up out there on a street with no teeth and new tattoos. Active psychosis. It has been proven that 80% of the addiction involved both alcohol and drugs. I've worked with the D.A. for 10 years, I've been in federal prisons, provincial prisons, and it's networked. And what's going on? When you try something, the only answer is total abstinence. When you try something you're looking for... Something to lift you up, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he needs these salesmen who sell it at school, and that's what school starts with, and he needs to put them on the naked island. You have new dangers I mentioned. Now in America, here are the data of 65,000 deaths from overdose, there's a new drug that's 100 times stronger than heroin, a fentanyl called, and the derivative of that fentanyl is three grains of active psychosis and almost, an overdose. You have a new drug stain, here's what they call zombie drugs. It hasn't come here yet, because on the continent of Europe you have 8 and a half thousand dead mostly of heroin and morphine. But this is coming here and it's going to be legalized for God's sake. It's nothing new, here. What about when I was back in law enforcement, nothing new ever happens? You had cocktails... which was mixed under the skin, is not intervinous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You had boys sniffing gasoline, glue, etc. It's all happening over and over again. If we don't stop it in the end, it'll have devastating consequences. Here's one of my friends told me, this is what he said when I was in high school. If God did something better than heroin, he must have kept it to himself. What do you do? Parents are the first teachers, sociologists, etc. It won't solve our existential problems. If the kids aren't strong in the head, if they don't have faith, don't get in, kids don't get in the car with drunk fools. You'll live a little longer. And finally what do you say? Faith, faith in yourself. No one will solve the problems, but you yourself and I will end it in the end, as Mr. Vukic comes here, Mr. Vukic, I will hand over the list of Croats killed by anti-fascists in Belgrade after the entry of the Red Army, and there are no Serbs there, and they have killed 18000 Serbs that we must know the same thing, anti-fascistsists hot.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65908	Thank you. The fourth is the esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65909	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The foreign-political position of the Republic of Croatia is such that we need to do everything to improve relations with our neighbours, to fix open issues that exist with Slovenia, with Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Serbia, with Hungary to solve them and not to complicate them or to escape from solving them. For the Independent Democratic Serb Party's club as part of the ruling majority as was the case with the previous ruling majority, normalising relations and establishing dialogue between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia is one of the key programme objectives. And for this reason, I would like to say here for this speaker that as part of the ruling majority, we expect the government to have no reservations regarding the establishment of improvements and the development of relations between Croatia and Serbia, that only dialogue can be a means to address misunderstandings, which will address open issues that exist, refugees problem, the problem of missing, the problem of succession, the problem of minorities, the problem of trial for war crimes, the problem of the border. This has not been resolved since 2011. And there's a bunch of people and they're burdened with each other's relationships. The beginning of redefining relations with the history of the 20th century either in World War II, whether the war collapse of the common state and the war in Croatia is something that can further complicate the relationship. And if we are not mature and responsible in this regard, we will enter again into the spiral of enmity deepening, animosity deepening, and to the detriment of the citizens of one and the other country, especially to the harm of members of the Croatian people in Serbia and the Serb people in Croatia. And anyone who expresses the reserves that this is not the time, and when was the time since 2011? Was it the '96 moment? When was the normalisation agreement signed? It was because they were brave people who signed it. Was there a time when some people went and apologized on both sides? So we need to take responsibility, and we need to be bold. Various people expect their suffering to be respected with rights both on the Croatian and Serbian sides. Unreasonable people think we need to apologize first so we can talk. Let's talk and create assumptions for a serious gesture of reconciliation because what happened between Croats and Serbs in the 20th century in World War II and in this war has not happened among many peoples. I, as a representative of Serbs and as a party representing Serbs in Croatia, have many reasons to think about an apology and know who it should be referred to, a request for it. But it doesn't occur to me like some people here say, before an apology and then a conversation. Whoever fights and fights in this way wants to resolve conflict and quarrels will never be resolved. Some people shouldn't drag me by the tongue because in my head right now, a soldier of Serbian nationality, a Croatian soldier of Serbian nationality, was killed in a guesthouse after receiving leave of several days, and no one had ever responded to him and was killed by a man very close to a prominent politician who today, a politician in Croatia. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65910	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65911	Take care that everyone has a wound.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65912	Let's move on. The next is the respected Ines Strenja-Linić and the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65913	Dear President, dear colleagues. Dear Mr. Pupovac, we have our wound too, we don't know where Dr. Pupovac ended up. Schreter. But today I'm going to talk again about how the treatment must become a human right, not as soon as it is merciful. We cannot accept it to be a lemozine, a starch in which occasionally someone will pay a few kunas because it has turned into an account that the government has opened on the proposal of Minister Kujundzic. In a month since that account was opened, 30,000 kunas have been paid. $30,000 in starch as one lemozine for children and for those who await the government's decision to resolve their discrimination in view of how they are treated today. And that's another indicator that associations don't trust this government and still the association's accounts are being collected. So why do we have to treat our most severe patients with donations? Minister, it is time to say that this fund has been missed and to ensure a transparent and clearly defined fund for innovative therapy within which the commission we will know who is in it, in a transparent manner by clear criteria, determine which disease we will start with treatment. There's no time to experiment anymore because this account is missing. So besides falling very low to 26th place according to the European Health Consumer Index, that is, even seven places in one year, which measures the quality and availability of health care. The level and quality of health care as well as the waiting time for certain diagnostic and curative procedures vary significantly in various parts of our country. At this point, we are faced with ten billion kuna deficits in health, we no longer have to wait for a comprehensive reform because our health indicators and health outcomes are getting worse, and Croatia is even 2nd in Europe if you do not know about cancer mortality and for this, representatives of public authority should take responsibility. Furthermore, some groups of patients, e.g. sufferers of multiple sclerosis are discriminated against due to waiting for treatment to begin, which may lead to worsening of their medical condition or imagine, if they are 55 years of age no longer have the right to be treated. But it's still the ones that might be working, but they don't have the right to treat. We are also witnessing situations where the introduction of innovative treatments for certain groups of sick people and children who have been suffering from neuroblastoma or spinal muscle atrophy, resulting in situations of public pressure on the health administration and the introduction of such treatments eventually turns out to be an act of mercy again, not the consumption of citizens' rights to treatment and health care, which is so often said in our Constitution. Therefore, it is necessary to clearly respond to what fund for expensive medicines we want to make clear the provision of funds for particularly vulnerable groups in the first place for children and young people, greater flexibility in the supply of medicinal products in view of established needs at the level of health centres, the establishment of innovative therapy funds and the pooling of different methods of supply of medicinal products and the provision of treatment in the context of the EU and finally, the deep monitoring of treatment outcomes and the level of discrimination in access to treatment at the level of the Republic. I therefore consider it necessary within the fund to open a sub-assembly, as I have already proposed the Innovation Therapy Fund, intended primarily for innovative treatments for which we will wait even more years until they are included in the regular list of HZZOs, but it is about the treatments that will, from 3.4 years of age, save lives because medicine is taking great steps forward every day and whose application will follow a clear established transparently with the name of the Committee for Medicinal Products for a certain disease and have the possibility of starting with a hasty treatment before being included on the list of medicines. So that's the only thing that will ensure that, as I said, treatment becomes a human right and not a act of mercy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65914	Let's go to the last debate, Club of HDZ Representatives, respected counterpart Josip Boris, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65915	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here we will look back at this part of the situation at the HDZ club in Agrokor because we believe that although it is almost a year since the story with Agrokor started, it is always important to remind ourselves of what we had, what happened in that time where we are today with Agrokor as an important company of systemic importance that employs a large number of Croatian citizens in the Republic, there are a large number of employees and outside the border of the Republic of Croatia, who has activities in other countries and who is the bearer of major economic activities but in the most important part, in the food industry in the Republic. And it doesn't matter when we have to talk about this topic every day looking for space for what started to happen a year ago to end. We all know that this Law on Extraordinary Administration in societies of systemic importance has been passed for 12 months plus 3 months to reach a settlement, to restructure Agrokor and to end this story best for those most important. These are employees who work there, earn their salaries, these are suppliers, first of all small and large, so that numerous OPGs can sell their products and that in this way everything that has been going on for years, and again, for what politics has founded in the past slightly less than a year, was an investigative commission, so that commission has stopped with joy, to say, with the efforts of all, first of all, the Government through the law, and then the extraordinary commissioner with his knowledge of all the believers, that this story ends in the best possible way we all expect. And what appears to us as a topic at a certain time when the subject is clearly missing, there are always some motives, the possibility of something inside that system being interpreted differently. We heard here today from a colleague from the SDP that the government was not motivated by what I was saying now, meaning to preserve something, to bring an end to a process that could irrevocably bring down the Croatian economy, but that it was obviously some individuals or some kind of consulting house or anything else. I'm sure it's not in the HDZ either, I don't like it, here's personal to me, what happened there, but what I can certainly say is, with certainty, not one single kuna of a taxpayer has entered that Agrokor in the past. Will we, as politicians, arbitration within corporations and their relations, go back to the time of another government that took counselors who didn't finish the job and were paid with taxpayers' money? Let's remember the monetization, I don't know 10 million kunas or the privatisation of the HPB that's never been carried out and the advisors are paid. Should we talk in that segment and ask who did what? Of course, I'm saying each of us will, when the process is over, think whether everything the government did from the 4th month of last year to today made sense or it was all wrong in some way, but let the process end and those responsible, both to the government and the citizens and to their employees, and they need to know that in this way that they lead the process to the end, that they will also be watched. I think this story has a chance to end well, to the best possible that we've expected, and I say, I believe, because we've had good intentions for those we should have, and these are employees, those who are suppliers, who produce and who want to keep doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65916	This led us to the end of the debate after the request for a break. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, pursuant to Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I will propose an addition of the agenda to the 7th session with 13 new points, but before that comes the honored colleague Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65918	President-in-Office of the Parliament, I would like to ask on behalf of the MOST club for an independent break in which we will discuss freedom of speech and the destruction of the democratic system in Croatia. I'm also in agreement that if you allow us, we don't need us and we don't ask for a break of 10 minutes and we can speak immediately, if other parliamentary deputies agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65919	All right, I can see that there's a colleague named Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65920	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. I don't need you for a break, but I'd like to ask you, will today's vote be the Agricultural Land Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65921	There won't be a Agricultural Land Act. Is anyone else picking up? If not, then before I give my word to my esteemed colleague, Petrov, I will welcome the students XIII. High school from Zagreb, welcome. Here's a colleague of Petrov's. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65922	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The censorship that we can witness today and it is happening and it will happen in the Croatian Parliament does not belong to a democratic stable society that the current government wants to show. What democracy, what can we even guarantee citizens if we try to limit freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament? What kind of message do you send to young people? What young people can expect from our country if you are paying parliamentary deputies to come to the Croatian Parliament, who are protected by parliamentary immunity that they can speak anything they dare not speak outside, you are actually sending a message that they have no right to speak, that they cannot speak. It is obvious that there is no balance in democratic rights between the Government and Parliament, and don't be angry when I tell you that with everything you are trying to do today through changes to the Rules of Procedure, you are actually becoming an extended hand of the Government, a machine that will raise hands and not an independent institution and the most legislative body in Croatia where you have the right to hear absolutely every parliamentary representative who thinks. Instead of strengthening freedom of speech, instead of strengthening the independence of every parliamentary representative and respecting the sad opinions and ideas of others, you are turning this institution into a body that will only raise hands if necessary, as the Government says. Don't be angry when I tell you that you did it with the Law on Local Self-Government where you installed the sheriffs, that your mentor has already started talking about the bipolar system and that he will do it at the state level. Today, there is a situation in the Croatian Parliament where you are making changes to the Rules of Procedure in which you are making it impossible for parliamentary deputies to defend citizens' rights. Well, I guess not all the topics you're talking about on behalf of the government, those topics that the citizens of Croatia want to hear. So don't tell me you don't want to hear anything about shipyards or maybe you're having trouble hearing about shipyards and problems? Is it a problem for you to hear what's going on in Agrokor? Is that why we can't have a break in the morning? You're saying that your problem with the break is that it makes it impossible for the Parliament to work properly, so start working at 8:00 in the morning. Why do you start at 9.30? When do other people start working? Why do you have a three-month break? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65923	Time to stop. My colleagues and colleagues, please, please. Come on, please. Wait a minute, let your colleague Petrov speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65924	What kind of message do you send to young people who are worse today when you tell them that only if they become parliamentary representatives are entitled to a three-month vacation? What did you do then? What message do you give them that they should do in life and how should they do it? That's a fact. You want more time, cut your vacation short. You want to work, you want more time to discuss, start working at 8:00 in the morning. But on behalf of constructive debates, do not abolish the right of parliamentary representatives to speak about topics that are of interest to Croatian citizens. You've been chosen whether or not you've been proposed by the parties. You are chosen to build and defend the confidence of the citizens who gave you their vote and you will not do so in a way that you will silence other parliamentary representatives, to abolish freedom of speech and democratic right in the Croatian Parliament and you will not do so in a way that you will not become just an extended hand of the government. With this way, with what you're doing, you're actually returning Croatia to a stone age, and that should be clear to you. The Croatian Parliament should be a place where everyone's opinion should be heard whether you like it or not. But certainly not a place where we'll just be machinery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65925	I ask you colleagues and colleagues, colleague Petrov has asked for a break, he has the right to speak for five minutes, like everyone else. He didn't say anything, he didn't say anything beyond what he gave him for the right Rules of Procedure. I will just say for a moment that I do not understand the reasons why you did this, since the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system informed me that by decision of the Committee, in a unanimous decision of the Committee, the proposal of the new Rules of Procedure was for our citizens. So, after we have already discussed the party consultations here, after all, now, on the proposal of the opposition, it was sent to a public debate, to further citizens for the first time in the history of the Croatian Parliament, to make their proposals known. You're here now, talking about someone banning someone from speaking. I think it has nothing to do with the truth, nor was it given to you, to make such a claim and to misinformed the Croatian public. So, I want to tell everyone, not just you, but the Croatian public, to be involved in the public debate, about the contents of the Rules of Procedure under which the Croatian Parliament will work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65926	President-in-Office of the Parliament, so just for the sake of the proposal you sent to the public hearing, I've brought this all up for the very sake of this proposal. And the moment you say that the opposition has agreed, then you should always have an understanding of the other part of the opposition that didn't agree with you because there are such ones. The bridge of independent lists disagrees with the proposal in which you remove the number of replicas, in which you cancel breaks in the morning. And even the chairman of your board at this meeting of the committee you spoke of, he doesn't even know what changes you're proposing in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65927	Here, then, just once again, there will be no rules of procedure before the public debate, any further consultations, so there really is no reason to be nervous, panic, and no one will be left without the right to say what they want as well as so far. It's just that, hopefully, they'll settle the rules of the game, so there won't be any abuses that we've witnessed in recent months. Comrade Bulj, you've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65928	Thank you very much, President. You have violated Art. 39. because you should have given notice to MPs, who did not allow another representative to express his views in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But that's usually the custom in this Parliament of the strict majority, and now you just want to make this new regulation a new proposal just to make it legal for you to be an extended hand to the government. But Parliament chose, not the people. Therefore, you are obliged to give notice to MPs who also make it impossible for me who have given countless but also to others, not selectively, including Minister Dalic, if she does not get the word. So this Rules of Procedure is just made to take away the word of the Assembly MPs, and you will not be allowed to do so, the people will not allow you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u65929	Okay. I agree with that we should allow each other to talk, I've warned multiple times, there were very many MPs who would deserve a warning from the ruling majority in the minority order, but I don't think we need the needs now... to give warnings, but now it's time to go to the vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And now we're going back to the agenda: - Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Central Register Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 263 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I would now like to ask the respected Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions to give an additional explanation of the bill. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69475	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Central Register Act. Therefore, the Central Insurance Register is a public institution which is primarily responsible for the guided single accounting of personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds. The relevant REGOS law regulates the legal position of the institution, bodies, business, powers and transactions in the REGOS section, the way in which the register is kept, the reporting and use of data from the register, and other issues relevant to the business of REGOS. One of the basic problems that arises, related to the business of the institution, is that it is the accumulation of funds in the temporary account of the REGOS. And all subsequent submissions of the relevant bonds, which do not allow payments to be linked to debts and funds to remain in the provisional account, rather than forwarding to the personal accounts of members of compulsory pension funds. Following this legislative proposal, it is proposed to extend the power of the REGOS to implement the schedule by insurance undertakings, unrelated contributions to pension insurance, the basis, individual capitalised savings under specific and specific circumstances, which will ultimately result in a reduction of unconnected payments, recorded on the provisional account and a higher amount of the appropriations, contributions to pension funds obligations, and a relief of the process of correction, unrelated payments. The share of unconnected payments is 0.46% of the total contributions of the second pillar, but this amount burdens the temporary account of the REGOS, and since the basic purpose of these funds is to just forward to the user's personal accounts, additional powers are needed for the REGOS to be dealt with effectively in these cases, so that the forwarding of these funds can be carried out in an effective manner. The funds on the provisional account shall be made available to the Ministry of Finance and shall pay interest of 0.45% annually. Furthermore, the draft law extends the purpose of the appropriations from the fees charged by REGOS to compulsory pension societies and to carry out activities related to the introduction of single accounting, personal accounts of pension fund members and other activities and REGOS tasks that are linked, which are related to the conduct of single accounts accounting, such as e.g. maintenance and development of the information system, administrative and technical support and exchange of data, projects and programmes related to technical support, etc. In addition, these amendments and additions simplify the procedure for the adoption of the REGOS statutes in such a way as not to require prior consent from the Government of the Republic of Croatia anymore, but are prescribed that the statutes are adopted by the Administrative Council and confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in conclusion, these changes and additions will result in a reduction in the number of unrelated payments, higher amounts in personal accounts, lower amounts of interest paid by the Ministry of Finance, which will have an impact on the expansion, use of the funds resulting from compensation paid by compulsory pension companies in REGOS, and will affect the simplified adoption of the REGOS statue. In addition, it is important to mention that additional financial resources are not needed for the implementation of the proposed law in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69476	We have two replicas from first respected colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69477	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, we've already discussed this law once, I was hoping that this version of the law would be even better than this one, but it's important that some things in REGOS are speeding up, but what I'm interested in is how much money in the passing account was when we discussed this law and how much is it now when we're discussing the final version of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69478	State Secretary's response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69479	Dear and esteemed representative Mr Mrsić, here it is, concrete data are the following, on 23.1.2018 the state of unrelated payments on the provisional account is 294 million 578 thousand 513 kuna and 31 June. Out of the total amount of unrelated payments in the provisional account, which could not be linked to the debts are 290 million kuna, to payments made in the period from 1.1.2002 to 31.12.2013, which is 42.24%. A payment from 1.1.2014 to 23.1.2018 refers to 170 million and 147 thousand kuna or 57.76%. What's important is to say, in the past year, about 300 million kunas were taken from a temporary account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69480	The second replica of the esteemed colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69481	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, let me say that I support the fact that REGOS is getting more power, because it will only speed up all these actions that we are facing and the problems we are facing in practice. But one practical question, given that it is 0.46% unrelated payments, that the interest paid by the Ministry of Finance on these non-classified and unrelated payments that are in a special account is 0.45%, and the consequences of the adoption of this law, as a result, are also cited a lower amount of interest to be paid by the Ministry of Finance. So I'm curious to know what the amount of the interest paid at this point by the Ministry of Finance... non-classified payments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69482	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69483	Thank you, Mrs. Macar. Here, first of all, it should be mentioned that the interest paid by the Ministry of Finance, last year, is reduced from 2% to 0.45%, and in addition, the Ministry of Finance will pay lower interest, since these funds on the provisional account will be forwarded to personal accounts as much as possible, and in addition to that on the basis of the spending of funds collected by REGOS on the basis of the compensation charged to compulsory pension companies, it should be mentioned that, in this context, the REGOS itself will use much less resources from the state budget already to make use of its resources as much as possible on business. And on that basis, about 50 million kunas are collected annually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69484	Let's move on. And excuse me, so on behalf of the board, it's the Committee on Labour and Pensions System, a respected colleague, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69485	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament at its 26th session, held on 24 January, discusses the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Central Insurance Register Act submitted by the Government on 21 December 2017. It is also after the opening statement in which the applicant’s representative pointed out that the proposed Law amending and supplementing the law allows the central register of data-connection insurance and the schedule by insurance of unrelated pension insurance contributions for certain categories of obligors to contribute to the reduction of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account. In a brief discussion, the Committee supported the proposed amendments concerning the issue described in the law and unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the following conclusion, which is to adopt the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69486	Now we're going to a debate. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives, respected counterpart Mladen Karlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69487	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary, the Director of REGOS with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act or REGOS, as it is known. If a man actually looked at just sort of intro that only 0.46% of the share of unrelated payments would think, well, that's not much. But when you see on the other hand that it's almost 300 million kuna and that these are the funds that someone should be sitting down and being part of a pension, then we actually see how important it is to get this amendment and the addition of the law as soon as possible and to apply it to connect that part of the unconnected payments, to those insurance companies for which it is intended and who actually did it by their work, they actually brought in the fact that they should be paid. And that is why it is very important to commit all those who are actually participants, which are payers, these are companies that pay these fees or other incomes, important and obliged to submit the legally prescribed data to REGOS in order to actually bring this up and to make it an obligation for pension insurance. As we see from this bill of law that this would ultimately result in a reduction of unrelated payments recorded in the provisional account, a larger amount... the funding of pension insurance contributions based on individualised, capitalised savings for compulsory pension funds and companies, lower amounts of interest paid by the Ministry of Finance, and by facilitating the process of correcting unrelated payments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It also extends the purpose of the funds achieved from the compensation charged by REGOS to compulsory pension societies to carry out activities related to the implementation of single accounting, means where these funds would also be used for administrative and technical support, for the maintenance of the information system, but also for the various other competences in which work would be improved. And it is also very important to simplify the procedure for the adoption of the basic general act of the REGOS, a way that no prior consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is needed anymore, but is prescribed that the statutes are adopted by the Administrative Council and the Government confirms. It actually kind of speeds up and facilitates the work of REGOS. For all these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69488	Let's move on. The second is the Club of Representatives of the HNS and the esteemed representative of Bozica Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69489	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. I've already said in my replica that I'm glad to simplify this process and that REGOS gets more powers. It is also good that the statutes, i.e. the procedure for the adoption of the statutes, are simplified, that these payments are regulated, which are charged and charged to compulsory pension societies as they can be made available to them. However, the biggest change is in Article 5. Here we now have the powers that REGOS gets that I can make the connection of unrelated payments if we have the submitted form but with the wrong number, and we have the payment to connect. If we have different amounts, I can also link it to the order of age. Also, REGOS will be authorised from now on to implement the schedule by insurance companies, those where a business operator has ceased to exist and there is no one to actually do it. But also unrelated payments over six years old for a taxpayer who continues to operate. There are other powers here in paragraph 5. The REGOS can thus implement the schedule for unrelated pension insurance contributions and for self-employed persons in the second pillar, we have unrelated and older than 6 years. I guess we haven't had any of these since we had until 1.1.2016. they were paying contributions to the tax administration's resolution and after 1.1.2016, JOPPD forms are being sent which are then linked to these payments, but we will certainly get to those problems and are well included. What she would point to is that perhaps another article should be considered and introduced and authorised by REGOS are payments of interest on the second pillar. I'll make it short that I won't speak all those long names. In fact, it is often met when a request for a transfer is required or we submit to the IRS to transfer from one account to another, most often it is about the extra-value tax, so when payment is made, pension first pillar, pension second, health care and all other contributions usually take place one day later. And now we have a case that there is no problem with closing interest on all other contributions except for the MIO second pillar, which is understandable because these interest rates should be allocated to second pillar insurance. If we take the average salary and one day of that delay, it is an average or average salary of seven limes. And now you can't close those interest rates, but they stand unconnected for so long until you make a pattern and deploy to pay level, someone will have five lips, someone six, seven, eight, nine. I might suggest to consider and see if such payments with the basis of interest are allowed to be closed without the delivery of the form, and to act in the same way as simply taking an average per employee if it is a sum of up to one kuna because I don't think it would significantly disrupt the insurance account or lead to an unfavourable position that someone won't get, and certainly it would be far, far less unrelated payments. I say all this other greetings, but perhaps to see the second reading to try and think about how it would also be included in this Article 5 to empower REGOS and for that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69490	Thank you. We are going to the third debate, the SDP Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69491	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act, a law that has not attracted much attention, but is a law that is extremely important for all citizens in Croatia who are paying into a second pension column because it is a central place that the funds that we deprive from our pensions transfer to the accounts of pension funds that we have chosen to be those who will pay the pension when we go to earned retirement. The law that's in front of us today has some things inside that I hope the secretary of state will answer, so I'm going to start with the most important one, which is that we still have 320 million kuna in that passing account, and I think that when we talked in December, if I remember correctly, there were around 294 million kunas. So in these two or three months nothing has happened, and the number of REGOS employees has increased by ten, which suggests that these ten employees are obviously not employed in places that should be increased the number of people doing these jobs with the aim of reducing that number because the REGOSA job is precisely that it connects payments with the gyro accounts except with accounts in pension funds. Of the 320 million kunas 128 million kunas is that former old RSM form and that number will be reduced if it is no longer available, but it is also unusual that it lasts so long. There's this problem, there's all of it, but obviously there's a situation in REGOS that we're going to slow down, there's time so when it comes, we're going to solve five, today two, tomorrow ten, instead of solving fifty, which is why people get their money in that account. Because every day that we're late with the transfer of those funds is less funds in the account and there's less pension. It's clear that the state, every finance minister, will love to have 320 million that can spin, and that's something that the state is obviously nice because it's crediting with very little interest. If they borrowed it in banks, it'd probably be some other interest. So you can't get the impression that there's not much in REGOS to make those funds or those millions of kunas lying in that account lessen. The JOPPD form is a pattern that allowed a lot of things to be simpler in Croatia and one of the goals was to connect payments from our salaries to pension funds as easily as possible. Therefore, the so-called "IRS" system was also launched in the IRS. Colloquially called SNU, or the specification of unrelated payments, where it was intended to speed things up as soon as possible so that the 320 million do not stand there and that is the problem. This law doesn't solve it. REGOS will get some more powers, but with this pace that solves the current problems of connecting payments, it won't change much. Because what is quite certain is that REGOS is not doing his job well and that with RSM patterns we have had problems, we know that it was problematic and that there will really take time for REGOS to finish the job and ask if the 128 million eventually will come to zero or there will be something left. But 192 million kuna, we keep going around that JOPPD number, so that's those funds from 2013 on here when the JOPPD form started, they're always there, there's always something that's obviously going on, and there's a new one coming, etc., etc. Obviously, REGOS must work much faster, much more efficiently, and these changes that we welcome are changes that will not lead to REGOS working faster again. Obviously, there is a problem in something else, which is in the way in which the REGOS performs its function. I note that the number of employees has increased, I ask which jobs, but obviously it has, but it has not led to any shifts in the work of REGOS itself. And I doubt that we're going to do with this what we need to do, which is that our funds are not on the REGOS account but on the pension funds' account. Every day late is what reduces our pensions. And I hope that the Ministry of Labour and Pensions will work on, in addition to these amendments to the laws, that as the body responsible for the work of REGOS, some things will change there, speed up and I expect that after six months we have a report on what has happened and what has received this law, it has led to the fact that the situation in this passing account is better than it has been so far. In this light, too, what went "below the grain" is a change in the way the REGOS Statute is adopted because the law changes for now, changes the way before that, according to the old applicable law, the statute should be approved by the Government and then passed by the Administrative Council. Here we go the other way, so the administrative council brings it and the government confirms it, it seems a small change but a very important change because the administrative council and the REGOS management can change the structure of the REGOS in any way they want, they can open up jobs as much as they want, they should have consent before, and now they just confirm the government. Thus, here "under the grains" opens the possibility of people falling in love with REGOS in various ways, we see this in other companies, in a way to expand the structure of REGOS. And this seems to be a small change, but it is very important and I expect that this law will pass in the House, that this will lead to the fact that in REGOS we have one plem of employment and that this will not lead to the improvement of REGOS We will support this law because we believe that REGOS as regards the powers to be given to it should be done, but we will certainly look after the things that can come from this law which is that nothing changes in the passing accounts and that REGOS gets more employees without resulting in the very reduction of millions of kunas that are in the passing account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69492	We have two replicas, the first one's the honorary colleague Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69493	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Mrsic, given that you were a minister, would like to ask a specific question, will likely be interested in Croatian citizens, so aside from the fact that there were gaps which did not make REGOS guilty, therefore regarding non-connection of payments to citizens' accounts, you have made quite an important claim, which is only the functioning of REGOS and the time it takes to get payments recorded on citizens' accounts. And what is particularly worrying now is that in one part of the exposure, you said that citizens will be damaged because there will be fewer pensions. This applies, therefore, to those citizens whose payments are in question and with this connection applies to all citizens because it is actually pension funds that do not now have 320 million kunas that could be multipled. And if what you say is true that there is a danger that this much longer period of time will not be done, and the funds have increased since December as you said, then what is the danger for Croatian citizens and how much can it be because obviously it is not a small amount, individually and then total pension fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69494	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69495	Dear colleague Žagar, yes, there is this part of the danger, this first danger is much greater and that means that the funds that lie there in our account can lead to our pension being less than it should be since the funds stand for a month, two, three, four, five, or not knowing how many months. That the worker didn't do it. So it's not the worker who's guilty because someone in accounting made a mistake in fulfilling the JOPPD forms, etc., but the REGOS is there to protect us, so workers, not to protect pension funds or the state. As for the total amount, yes, this 320 million would certainly be good if they were in pension funds that they could then increase their value and that they could place it to fertilize that value and that our pensions would ultimately be higher. Because here's the biggest danger I see in the fact that the funds that are the assets of the workers who are allocated from their pensions to their accounts, stand on the REGOS, the state pays interest for them, but ultimately, my account in the pension fund will be smaller for that period in which those funds were not in my account. And it's a danger, what I've been saying all along, REGOS should be a service of workers. So he has to serve us who are paying in the 2 retirement pillar and that's his basic task. There have been major problems in REGOS, since management, before and after, some things have changed, informed the REGOS, REGOS should work much better, because everything is based on electronics. But what worries me is that people are hiring without anything changing in this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69496	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69497	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, REGOS has evolved all these years. And as we objected in the first years, that it should not be paid from the state budget, but that it should be paid by those who take money to manage compulsory pension funds. However, the debate and the findings here are also very strange. So, in certain segments of the debate, we like to brag that we've done something, each at some point in our time. However, this 300 million did not happen by chance. If we have a legal obligation that someone must pay the fine, if they do not pay a contribution to their employees, then the question is, how is this an incorrect form if we know that everything connected through the OIB could reach REGOS, so REGOS can't link it. So there's a hole somewhere. That's one thing. The second thing, given all these changes, I no longer see any reason why the Government is at all discussing the Statute of the REGOS, the report on the work of REGOS and on the work of voluntary pension funds, I hope that we will change such a Rules of Procedure, should be discussed by the parliamentary parent committee. And mandatory with a report from mandatory pension funds, there should be a report on the work of REGOS, because one without another, you cannot discuss. Why? Because yearly with what REGOS is doing, mandatory pension funds accumulate around 5 billion payments. 5 billion are offerings and their assets are growing every year at 10 billion kn. So a lot of things have changed, and we don't have to slave for something that's happened. We just have to move on to what's right tomorrow. Because how to discuss the business of mandatory pension funds, if the REGOS doesn't report to us what the situation is with those who feed those pension funds. Because at the end of the day, the REGOS is neither for the government nor for the Parliament, but for those which we have legally committed to be required to pay a mandatory 2 pillar of pension. So let's do it the way we do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69498	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69499	Thank you very much, dear fellow Shucker. Yes, on the last finding we agree, REGOS is for citizens, those who pay contributions to the 2 pension pillar, and as regards non-recording payments, there is a system called the specification of non-account payments which is linked to the JOPPD form precisely because employers can correct the errors in the JOPPD. Well, if the employer doesn't spot them, then that's what regos should do, so I welcome those changes that are. However, it is obvious that REGOS does not do his job well, because it does it slowly, ineffectively, I say, instead of making 100 cases today, it is done 10 because who cares. No one will raise a grudge, because it stands for his, therefore, payment in a passing account in the REGOS instead of being in the pension system. I am absolutely against the fact that mandatory pension funds and REGOS reports are being discussed on the parent board. They must be debated here, that citizens who pay in pension funds, hear what pension funds do, which they pay in, what their contributions are, what their problems are. If we move that, on board, on parent, it'll be debated by 103 people who do or don't deal with it. And here are all of us who are, therefore, here on behalf of the citizens to represent their opinions and to discuss it, we must discuss and not the parent board and I think that it will respect the President of the Parliament that it does not go to the Rules of Procedure, that it is on the board, but it must be, that is, too important for the citizens of Croatia, otherwise we will hide some things and there will be intensities that we want something... And I'm absolutely against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69500	Thank you, colleague Mrsic, I am not the one who will determine the contents of the Rules of Procedure, but all together. Okay. We are going to the final debate on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69501	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I thank everyone for a constructive and very focused debate. Once again, I would like to point out that we have seen problems and that we are solving problems. So, in conclusion, with these amendments and additions to the Insurance Central Register Act, we will consequently influence exactly what we have been saying all day, reducing the number of unrelated payments, to larger amounts, to personal accounts, where these funds should be, to less amounts of interest they will pay or to be paid by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, we extend the purpose of the funds achieved from the compensation paid by compulsory pension companies in REGOS and will result in a simplified adoption of the REGOS Statutes. What should be noted here and particularly pointed out, is that REGOS continuously informs the debtors, appeals to the debtors, concerning the submission of requests to reroute funds from a temporary account to personal accounts. We can also see this on their web pages through e-new letter, where you get an insight into the state of unrelated payments of compulsory pension insurance of the second pillar and the form of JOPPD, i.e., RSM, where exactly on several pages is explained to all bonds in which way you connect unrelated payments, i.e., to print out a form of therefore, that is what all bonds can be informed about, related to it on the REGOS web pages and, in addition, the REGOS continuously informs the debtors in order to really reduce that part of the unrelated funds and end up where they need to be, and these are our personal accounts. I will also mention once again that in the past 2017, there were almost 900 thousand requests to reroute exactly from which 300 million were removed from the provisional account and rerouted to personal accounts. The largest accumulation of funds in the provisional account was between 1.1.2014 and 23.1.2018 and that amounted to 170 million, i.e. 57.76% of the total amount of funds in the provisional account. As far as REGOS employees are concerned, you know that employment bans are in force, but that projects and work on European projects should also be implemented. Three people working in REGOS are also employed on European ESI projects. And they're paid from these projects. And I'd also like to stress about interest, it was an example of 0.07 kuna or 7 limes. So what we should point out is that these are not REGOS funds, these are still our funds. These are the assets of the insurance company and should be treated in this way regardless of what is small, but it is also minor and they are the means of the insurance company. So we always have to keep that in mind. Here it is, thanks again for the constructively focused debate and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69502	Thank you. We have two replicas again. First of all, he's a respected colleague of Shucker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69503	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, in order not to stay in the air to hang that the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia with low interest cuts off the taxpayers. I think it should be made clear that this interest rate, given the time of historically low interest rates, is high compared to what would be obtained under some market conditions. I think it's very important to stress because unfortunately in politics we like to often abuse data that is not sufficiently clarified. And so it doesn't turn out that these 300 million states are paying an interest rate of 0.45%, and that's how it cuts citizens apart. However, what I want to say is that regos has to do with any delay in channelling funds where it is necessary to go, unfortunately, to cut off citizens. Because if the annual contribution of funds is five or six percent, and the annual interest rate on these assets on the market is below 0.45%, then they would get a five or six percent contribution on that money, and unfortunately this is how it has to be. Because it's simply the REGOS that has to come to an understanding of what's going on, why it's so much. And I think that's the most expensive primary goal in all of this. But I repeat this interest should be clarified to the Ministry of Finance, i.e. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not take anybody's money, but given the situation in the financial market, these interest rates are as high as they would get with some financial institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69504	Second replica, dear colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69505	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, don't show anything from one angle. 300 million kuna has been transferred, that's what happens in continuity. So, it's not a payment, it connects, etc. But what's the problem is that it's constantly on that account 320 million kuna. That's the problem. And I completely agree with him, and I told you that these are the assets of our citizens, and that every day that these funds lie in the account, you cut off me that I'm paying into a second pension column. That's why my pension is going to be smaller and the REGOS has to figure it out. They must understand their role. They have a role to play to protect me as a security guard, not to serve the state and then, so the finance minister lends funds from that account. What's also important is that you didn't explain that it wasn't just three employees, it was 10 employees. So that's something we'd welcome to hire more people who would then have a role to play in moving these 320 million kunas. Because sending news late and telling someone to go to the Facebook page or the REGOS website so you'll hear what you have to do there is not an approach that is proactive. So, REGOS has to get to every accountant, call him and say you got the wrong payment. If you don't know, now we have the opportunity and legal to do it for you. But it has to be a philosophy in REGOS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69506	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69507	Thank you, Your Honor. So, first of all, I repeat once again that there are three REGOS informers working on ESI projects and being paid from EU projects. Furthermore, it should be noted once again that REGOS continuously not only through web sites but also by telephone conversations, letters that go to the addresses of the debtors, or employers, appeal precisely to the correct and correct filling of the JOPPD forms. Because if one of the smallest mistakes happens, we get the funds to end up where they shouldn't, and that's a temporary account. For a temporary account, it should be reminded once again that it is a living base and that this base is changed from hour to hour, day to day and that the funds are forwarded to personal accounts if all information exists, or if the bonds do the job and correct everything that should be corrected. But it's a living base. I still think that we should all appeal together to employers and bonds to fill out the forms more correctly and accurately so that all the funds can end up in personal accounts, which I trust all of us with common interest, and I think we all agree here. In addition, I point out once again that in the last year 300 million kuna was transferred from a temporary account to a personal account, but the very base of the provisional account is a living base and it changes from hour to hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69508	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate, so I'm the one who's locking it up. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 263, the proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate concluded, and in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Central Register Act and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 108 for, 2 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69511	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Here is a draft final proposal of the Law on Administrative Inspection, based on the strategic documents adopted by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which are aimed at achieving a better and more efficient state administration. The public administration development strategy for the period 2015 to 2020 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2017 to 2020 provide for the de-concentration of certain inspection operations from the central authorities of the state administration to the offices of the state administration in the counties. In relation to the conduct of inspection operations, the provision of Article 25 should also be taken into account. The State Administration System Act which prescribes first-degree inspections to be carried out by public administration offices in units of regional and regional self-government and, in the second instance, by the central authorities of the state administration if the special law is not otherwise prescribed. According to the applicable law, the administrative inspection shall be established as the establishment unit of the Ministry of Administration and the administrative inspection tasks carried out by inspectors located at the headquarters of the Ministry of Administration. We are being supervised by all state parts, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority. The existing structure and number of administrative inspectors enables the annual implementation of 15 to 20 complete direct inspection controls. The draft Final Proposal of the Law on Administrative Inspection was adopted at the 74th session of the Government of the Republic of Croatia held on 4 January 2018 and was sent before you to the Croatian Parliament. The strategic documents adopted by the Croatian Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia provide for measures to be taken to improve the system of state administration, including the creation of assumptions for decentralisation and deconcentration. Contrary to the current trend of centralisation of state administrations, in particular inspection operations, it is envisaged to transfer certain inspection operations to the offices of the state administration in the counties. In accordance with the above, the Law on Administrative Inspection is amended by the establishment of administrative inspection in a way that has so far been established in the central body of the state administration and in the offices of the state administration in the counties and the operations of the Management Inspectorate from the central level is defocused on the county level. The Management Inspector of the Office of State Administration in the Countys will supervise the authorities and administrative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority and exercise activities in the area of the county. The law on administrative inspection allows for the regular and comprehensive conduct of inspection operations, the reduction of the costs of direct inspection controls, the increase of the educational role of the Administrative Inspectorate in relation to supervised entities. The law also introduces an eyewitness of inspection controls in electronic form that will allow for more effective monitoring of the work and reporting of the Administrative Inspectorate. This will contribute to strengthening the legality of the conduct of the supervised bodies and ultimately increase the effectiveness of the Administrative Inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69512	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69513	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Prpic. So regarding the administrative inspection now, at this moment, by the proposal of this law, one part of the administrative inspectors is leaving the county office of the state administration. The question, whether or not the education of these administrative inspectors is being considered from the state administration's office because, as far as the law is so far, almost ten years old and it is necessary to change it, administrative inspection is in view of its task and its work when you look at certain acts that they are obliged to carry out in the Administration's inspection comes up with certain data from those eight inspectors who could only work 20 units, say local self-government or county, and when you multiply it with the administrative departments, you would de facto come to you for 20 years to control these acts. So I'm interested in whether in the offices of the state administration... they're maintaining education or thinking about it, since they're now going to run this administrative surveillance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69514	The reply of the respected State Secretary Prpić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69515	I thank you for asking. Yes, education is also provided for means of security. However, through the introduction of the e-indicator itself, there will be standardised procedures that will facilitate the work of the inspector on the ground, and will certainly receive instructions from the central body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69516	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the first representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69517	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. I warmly welcome you all, and here I would like to briefly refer to the Final Proposal for a Law on Administrative Inspection. The current law entered into force on 10 June 2008 and so far has not been amended or completed, and it regulates the structure, jobs, mode of work, rights and duties of the Administrative Inspectorate. In accordance with the Law and the Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Administration of 2017, the administrative inspection was established as an independent internal establishment unit in the Ministry of Administration. The jurisdiction of the Administrative Inspectorate is very extensive, but also important because it conducts supervision related to the implementation of laws and other regulations, which regulates the system of state administration, the organisation and mode of work in the bodies of the unit of local, regional, or regional self-government, official relations in those bodies, the resolution of the rights of natural and legal persons, and the provision of public work by those bodies, as well as the conduct of representations. In view of the territorial distance of supervised entities and entities in relation to the headquarters of the Ministry of Administration, and thus administrative inspections themselves, the implementation of direct inspection controls requires significant costs such as travel costs, the costs of accommodation of inspectors in the place of supervision. As a result, inspectors are not able to conduct surveillance in optimal time, so according to a particular entity, the supervision takes as a rule one to two days which many times is not enough for quality supervision. It is evident from the practice so far that the administrative inspection is carried out annually by about 20 direct inspections in state authorities and units of local, regional or regional self-government, which is indeed very small in relation to the real needs that are and the total number of supervised bodies, i.e. the number of state bodies and units of local and regional self-government. In view of all of the above, the administrative inspection cannot, in fact, fully achieve the objective of direct supervision, which is to ensure the legal work of supervised bodies, and also to an insufficient extent, the educational role of the Administrative Inspectorate which should, in fact, contribute to the quality of the work of the supervised bodies. It is also important to note that, during the period from 1 January 2013 to May 2017, the administrative inspection carried out a total of 4042 cases in respect of the public and legal persons received for the protection of rights, with an average of 8 inspectors during one calendar year, which speaks sufficiently of the burden of such a regulated system of administrative inspection. In accordance with this proposal for a final law, administrative inspection will be established in the Offices of State Administration in the Countys and Ministry of Administration. This decentralisation also carries out one of the measures set out in the Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2017 to 2020, which is to transfer affairs and solutions to administrative matters in the first instance and certain first-degree inspection tasks from the central authorities of the state administration to the offices of the state administration in the counties. We also believe that it is very important to reduce the costs of direct inspection controls in this way, and to enable more and more comprehensive implementation of direct controls whenever necessary. In relation to the applicable law, it is also proposed that instead of objecting to the minutes and decisions which the head of the body decides to object to be able to submit observations to the minutes. The application shall be subject to review by the administrative inspector and, if it is unfounded, to submit written notices to the applicant of the objection and, if established, the administrative inspector shall draw up a record on the correction of the minutes, amendments or additions thereof. The head of the supervisory authority may request an assessment of the legality and conduct of the Administrative Inspectorate in accordance with the Law on Administrative Disputes. The proposed law provides for the possibility that administrative inspectors may submit an indictment for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure if they assess the existence of a reasonable suspicion of committing an offence, whereas under the applicable law, only the Central Authority of the State Administration, or the Head of the Authority, can submit the indictment proposal. The paper is also the introduction of an eyewitness, an inspection surveillance to be conducted in electronic form. As a result of all of this, we believe that the adoption of the proposed Law on Administrative Inspectorate will improve the effects of the administrative inspection itself, and the administrative inspection will also be more effective and will be able to do its job in a better way. Thus, the entire system of supervised entities in the jurisdiction of the Administrative Inspectorate will function better, more correctly and in accordance with the law. The funds for the implementation of this law are secured in the state budget of a million and 600 thousand kuna, of which 15% is secured in the budget, and 85% are coming from the European Regional Development Fund and are intended for the development of e-insects and to a greater extent the education of officials. We believe that this bill is good and that this new establishment of administrative inspection will be more effective than the previous one and therefore the HDZ club will support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69518	Thank you very much. We don't have a replica. And now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69519	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. In our first reading, we supported this bill, we made two remarks, one even accepted what I commend. The one not accepted was well-intentioned to assess, therefore, whether it is necessary to amend the provisions of the law regarding an authorised person to submit an indictment proposal, which is now in the authority of the head of the body in order to avoid the possibility of creating different practices of conduct. In his explanation, the applicant wrote that they estimated that this was not acceptable to them in view of the need to strengthen the independence of the administrative inspector. Although I believe that when these two needs are put into some correlation that this need to avoid different practices of conduct still prevails in relation to what is said at the moment, I think it is better to remain in the Proposal for a Law on Administrative Inspection of the provisions of the current law that has been in force for a long time. However, we will see how in practice this will be, therefore, whether different actions will be made from county to county, from municipality to municipality, from case to case, and in which way things will happen. Given the fact that we supported the law in our first reading, some of our remarks have been accepted, we will also support this bill in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69520	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude the debate, of course we'll vote when the conditions are met. I'll give it a break by 12:00 when the vote is scheduled. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 12:00. It's 11:00.25.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69521	Final proposal of the Law on Administrative Inspection, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 188, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, debate concluded. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Administrative Inspection. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for, 1 abstentions passed by the Law on Administrative Inspection. And we move to the final point, the final vote of the elections, appointments and resolutions. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection, appointments and administrative affairs of a respected colleague, Antu Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69523	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of Article 105(1), subparagraph 1 and Article 106(1), The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee for the selection, appointment and administrative procedures of the Croatian Parliament propose to the Croatian Assembly Decision on the discharge of members and the selection of members of the Committee on the Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly, a resolution of the members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Parliament, Frank Vidovic, and a member of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly is proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69524	And second, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69525	It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament Robert Jankovic be resolved, and that the Vice-President of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament be proposed to Rechim Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69526	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. If there are no interested, I'll close the debate and we'll put them both to the vote. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 107 votes for and 1 abstentions have been made as proposed by the committee responsible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is what we came to the end of today's work. We continue on Wednesday 7 February 2018 at 9.30 Proposal for a law on archive materials and archives, first reading, P.Z. Number 219, you'll get a schedule or you might already have it. Thank you. Session interrupted at 13.00 hours. I would now like to ask the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of my colleague, Antu Sanader, to explain the proposals for the decisions of that committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69528	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 105(1) and subparagraphs 1 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Committee for the selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament and to propose a resolution of the member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, as well as a member of the Committee on European Affairs of the Croatian Parliament, Domagoj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69529	Please explain everything, and then we'll open the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69530	It is proposed that members of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Mark Velligaj be resolved, and that Marija Alfirev be proposed as a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament Marija Alfirev and Tomislav Panenic be resolved, and all members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly are offered Allen Preec and Ante Pranic. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament Mark Vesligaj and Josip Borić be resolved, and all members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament are offered Allen Prelec and Stipo Shapin. It is proposed that a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament Ljubice Maksimčuk be dismissed, and Stipo Shapina is proposed as a member of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that members of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, Hrvoje Runtic, be resolved, and that Nikola Grmoi be proposed as a member of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. A Member of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the natural disasters of Jasminka Dejanović is proposed and Natasa Vesligaj is proposed for a member of the State Commission for the Assessment of Damages. A decision is proposed on the appointment of the president and members of the "Vladimir Nazor" Award Committee and the termination of the term of office of president and members of the "Vladimir Nazor" Award. The president of the "Vladimir Nazor" award committee is proposed by academician Zvonko Kusic. Biserka Rauter Plančić, Branka Cvitković, academician Luka Paljetak, academician Frano Parac, Goran Rako, Joško Ševo, Milko Šparenbleg and Zrinko Ogrest are proposed for members of the “Vladimir Nazor” Award.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-02-02-0.u69531	I thank my colleague Sanader. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone picking up? Does anyone have any objections that we're voting all of these proposals together, all of a sudden? If not, then I am voting on the Committee's proposal for a decision on selection, appointment and administrative affairs, as presented by the chairman of the Committee. Please, let's vote. I find that 120 votes in favour and 1 vote abstention has confirmed and accepted those decisions proposed by the chairman of the board by a respected colleague Sanader. This brings us to the end of the vote. Honorable MPs and MPs, we continue our work. Here's a second to brief you on one thing. So, point 3 we were planning to discuss today is the Proposal for a Law on the Communist Economy, first reading, we would not have spent today but would have started tomorrow with it in view of the importance of this topic, it would have a slightly better place because it would be very late today if we talked about it. And today we will begin with the Proposal Law on Archive materials and archives, first reading, P.Z. No. 119, but before that break, I assume he's looking for a colleague of the Pooh, please.
