ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u78380	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to take a 10-minute break on behalf of the club to get some rest and come to us from all we've heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u78381	Okay. We'll continue at 13.02 p.m. It's 12.52 o'clock. My colleague Curray called for a break, as far as I could tell. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u78383	Thank you, Mr. President, please take a break on behalf of the HNS club on this subject. In fact, today we have heard it over and over and over again about the reason why some amendment is accepted or not that has nothing to do with the very purpose of being an amendment, but is talking about the core, so I cannot accept here the the thesis in which we are talking about economic viability and the land is twice as expensive, 50% higher cost, 30% more maintenance, a higher risk to our citizens, but it is okay if it is floating and then the question is what our citizens will pay otherwise for three years we have committed to the EU that there will be no higher price for gas. But if it's land-based, then it could be a higher price of gas and it could be twice as high. On the other hand, we're talking about the environment, and we're supposed to study an open and closed system. When it's open, it can't be more than 0.1 milligrams per liter of chlorine, one and the other studies have done it. And then we're saying it's invaluable, no one's coming and it's going to have an environmental impact. Then there won't be any environmental impact, we can't do each other. On the other hand, I understand, I come from Slavonia, I have an obligation to protect the interests of citizens above all my constituency, my city and all of Croatia. Well, in two years, we'll only have 20% of our own gas in production. Where do we get the rest of the gas? We'll buy it. And what, in five years, shall there be a shortage, let there be a waste of supplies to explain to people in the hills, in Slavonia, to -10 that they may not be heated on gas? This is diversification and commitment. I understand, so no one, I understand the citizens of the Omis, so no one wants a transstation next to them, but everybody wants cheap electricity to have electricity. No one wants an antenna for a teleoperator, but we all want the faster and cheaper Internet. And that's where it needs to be reconciled first of all, all environmental protection measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u78384	I'm setting a break until 11:12. ANNIGHT IN 11.02 HOURS Good morning dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for the little delay, we continue to work, the first point today is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Protection Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 338 The act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us being respected Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, please welcome the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84887	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's action plan has also established measures to streamline certain obligations in the field of labour protection and it has been necessary to access and draft amendments to the Law on protection of labour in order to achieve them. This bill will not affect the reduction of the level of safety and the protection of the health of workers at the place of work in the employer, i.e. it will not increase the risk of injuries to work, occupational diseases and diseases related to work and will ensure certain administrative redundancies. In addition to this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes other legal obligations such as professional training, which will be regulated in such a way as to ensure that their implementation is carried out without the administration of an administrative procedure, as will be more clearly prescribed in particular for those for whom non-implementation is prescribed, such as the obligation to report deaths and other injuries at the place of work of the employer. The aim of this law should be to mention preventing work injuries as well as preventative action and improving protection at work. Work protection is a process that needs to be managed very seriously and responsibly because both life and health are values of particular social importance, such as constitutional categories. Furthermore, since the law has been in force for almost 4 years, the need to amend and supplement certain provisions has been seen in terms of clearer formulations of the law and also horizontal alignment with other regulations. In this respect, this legislative proposal lays down and defines the concept of disease in relation to work that has been mentioned on several occasions in the law, however, without clarification and definition of its meaning, and is now prescribed and defined in Article 3. It also states that the provisions of this law do not apply to craftsmen who carry out crafts themselves or to employers represented by a single natural person who is also the sole employer. Therefore, only employees, craftsmen and entrepreneurs who are the sole employees of that entity are administratively relieved here. They should, however, be stressed, obliged to comply with this law and in the event that, together with another person or with several other persons, they perform works at the same place of work, in accordance with the provisions of the Directive on the application of minimum safety and health requirements at temporary or mobile construction sites. In addition, the provision concerning obligations in the performance of specific tasks where their specificity is in conflict with the application of the general principle of prevention is also recast. This applies primarily to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, to the military, to pyrotechnics, security guards, system of protection and rescue, police officers, etc., where protection at work will be regulated by special laws precisely because of these specificities of affairs because they cannot avoid risks such as in fact one of the first general principles of prevention. In addition, the number of members of the National Council is expanded, which is in fact the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the National Council for Work Protection. It is proposed that their number go from 7 to 9 members and for 2 new members they would also represent a segment of health protection at work and will be proposed by the health minister. A number of employers operating in the same location will be able to arrange for each other to carry out work protection tasks together, respecting the criteria of the number of workers and, of course, all other criteria, so a joint work protection service is justified by several employers. In addition, a more extensive deadline is given for holding regular meetings of the Committee on Protection at Work from at least once every 3 months to at least once every 6 months, by supplementing the infringement provision concerning the non-maintainment of regular committee meetings, which does not mean that the Committee cannot meet more than once in those 6 months because only a minimum is prescribed and not a ceiling or maximum. And that provision applies to employers with 50 and more workers. The number of trained workers to provide first aid to the total number of workers is also reduced, instead of at least one person in companies up to 20 employees now it is a proposal that is at least one person in companies up to 50 workers. However, it should be pointed out here that there remains a provision that at any location of the employer and at any moment there must be at least one person who is qualified to provide first aid and is also complemented by the provision by which the employer must inform all workers. The provisions on the protection of non-smokers are in line with the provisions of the Law on the restriction of the use of tobacco and related products, in such a way as to extend the concept of tobacco smoke harmfulness to the concept of tobacco and related products, plant products for smoking and a pair of electronic cigarettes. The concept of working ability is, in turn, replaced by the concept of health skills, since the issue of workability is not the subject of this law and it has been established by other regulations in the part-round of pension insurance, thereby removing doubt in terms of the meaning of the concept of working ability in the context of this Act. It also leaves out the concept of a serious injury at the place of work in the employer, but determines the concept of an injury at the place of work which the employer is obliged to report since not reporting such an event to the inspection body is immediately sanctioned as an offence. It also determines the meaning of the idea immediately or at the time of reporting to the inspection body. Infringement provisions are also redesigned regarding the construction of work protection elaborates, application of the beginnings of works and other documents. Infringement provisions shall be complemented with regard to the making of a risk assessment in the event that workers or their representatives or labourers' commissioners have not taken part in the risk assessment. For the implementation of this Act, it is not necessary to provide for any additional funding in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and an increase in the number of members of the National Council for Protection at Work from 7 to 9 members will also not result in a significant increase in costs, as members of the National Council do not receive compensation for work but only charges for transport costs if necessary. Thank you, so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84888	I thank the secretary of state. We have six replicas. The first in line is a respected colleague, Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84889	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, so you have said that the announcements of amendments to this Act are also the motives for discharging or reducing the costs of the protection system at work according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia's action plan. However, I would like to say that this is wrong because protection at work cannot be seen as a cost and must not be seen in the context of redundancy of administrative operations. This is one complex system, a complex system, and it needs to be invested in additional funds, not reducing them. And now you think it won't affect that these changes won't affect the increase in the number of injuries and the safety of workers, I disagree with you there. So this one part of the craftsmen left out means only one employee, etc., will already affect the increase in risk. The second thing, this reduction in the number of workers who have to be trained for first aid, it certainly doesn't fit in to prevent any injuries at work, but in my case, I will no longer be in an individual debate. Anyway, this can't be an expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84890	Thank you. Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84891	I would like to thank my esteemed representative, Giujic. So, I said first of all that the aim of this Law is to prevent injury to work as well as preventive action, and also to improve the system of protection at work, since both health and life categories are of particular interest, and also constitutional categories as you know it. As regards the administrative discharge that is also visible in this Act, given all the changes we have proposed, it should be said that the government's action plan for administrative redundancy of the economy includes this Labour Protection Act, and the overall administrative discharge moves around a billion and a half kuna. And once again, this law will not affect the reduction of the level of safety and protection of workers' health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84892	Thank you. Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84893	Dear President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. So, here's fellow Djujic actually took my replica the way he pointed out himself that you said this would not, these proposed changes and additions will not result in a reduction in the protection of workers. However, some provisions do not actually support that. This particular finding, this proposal to go towards a reduction in the number of workers who will be trained to provide first aid, cannot possibly go in this direction. In fact, we would have to go with those proposals in a way that almost all workers or all workers are trained in a way that can provide first aid, not to reduce or increase that number to 50 workers to be one qualified person.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84894	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84895	Dear and esteemed Mrs. Alfirev, I will once again point out what I have already mentioned. So, at every location of the employer and at every moment of the sea, I stress that at least one worker must always be trained to provide first aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84896	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have detailed these measures that serve the administrative discharge. I agree when it comes to health care that it is not popular to talk about parafiscal intrusions and administrative discharge. There are employers and employers' obligations, but I will remind colleagues on the right who have now replicated, we are in the EU, the same situation has been around sanitary books. So nowhere in the EU, we have now reduced the number of reviews. The most important thing is to wash your hands. So we don't live in Kyrgyzstan, and I don't know Rwanda, but we live in Croatia which is an integral part of the Eu. Accordingly, we must respect certain regulations. I do not see in any way that the health of workers will be compromised, if more employers will be able to have one responsible person who will monitor health and safety at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84898	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84899	Dear Mr. Celic, I agree with you that we should continue to work and constantly raise awareness of the need for protection at work throughout society to continue to reduce the number of injuries as well as those so-called. Easier and harder, so in any case, I agree with you, that you should continue to work, fully on raising awareness of the need for protection at work and prevention, which is also the purpose of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84900	The next replica, dear fellow Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84901	Thank you, President, respected secretary of state, thank you for this presentation and I am glad to hear, as a craftsman, that small craftsmen are allowed not to have all the papers they need to protect at work, because they are one or one employed and we know that such, very, very, very much and I as a craftsman, know very well what the papers mean, what the problem is. Even small craftsmen, it's far easier, to do the job than to fill out all the papers. We know ourselves, that the craftsmen and the small entrepreneurs themselves, have almost all of us expensive, 250-500 parafiscal tasks, and when you go to fulfill it, I have to tell you the truth, that you have to sweat very hard, just to prove some papers. I know from personal experience and I think you should go hand in hand to craftsmen and our entrepreneurs, of course about health care there is no doubt and protection at work must be, but, I'm a little... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84902	Thank you for replying to the Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84903	I thank you, Mr. Misic, and I am pleased that you have pointed out this part, and you have made a very commendable reference to the discharge of craftsmen, entrepreneurs, employees only, who are employees of these entities themselves, since you are also an entrepreneur, so you know best, in fact, what problems people face, especially in terms of administration, so I am glad that you have commended this section on the reduction of paperwork and administrative disassembly, which will in no way affect the reduction of protection at work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84904	Thank you very much, the next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84905	... The law is clear and simplifies the system, most importantly, to go into simplification. [[Specially enabled.]] What do you think about protection at work, in some of the titles and occupations that are specific, about the benefits of work experience and professional retirement, in those? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84906	The answer to the esteemed secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84907	Thank you, Mr. Kirin. So you yourself know that when we talk about an internship with an increased duration, or, in a people known as the benefits of an internship, that it is the law, which is precisely the part of the pension reform that goes into the changes and additions, a working group that refers to so-called. Beneficiary internship, first met a few days ago, and very soon we will have solutions concerning the just-censored early internship, which refers to 95 jobs and 11 occupations, and you know that Minister Pavić himself announced the only revision of that system that will be in line with today's situation, given that this law has been last amended in substance in the 1980s. Mr. Thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84908	Thank you very much. And the last replica, the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84909	Thank you very much. The secretary of state, the ghost of Martina Dalic, will be an accident today by voting, so it would be your turn to change this law a little. I will ask you very correctly, the employer, who employs, for example, 30 workers, has the right and obligation to train one of the emergency personnel. What if this person is using an annual vacation, sick leave, or unpaid leave, or for any reason is not on the site or in the working rooms? Is that when the law is respected? What happens if the worker gets hurt? Who's going to help him? Will he help himself? And what you did is criminal to Croatian society, because if foreign employers can train all their workers to provide first aid, I see no reason why you are doing it in this law. And it is a crime against Croatian society and Croatian citizens. Who's to blame when someone falls dead in a factory without being helped?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84910	The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84911	Thank you, dear Mr. Gristle. In that sense, when that person who is qualified to provide first aid and when she is in sick or elsewhere, then the employer is obliged, stressed the obligation to provide another person, because, as I have already said, at every location and at all times, at least 1 worker must be trained to provide first aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84912	Thank you. Please, let's not throw ourselves away. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will speak to the honourable representative Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, it should not be a problem to have a unique view of fundamental issues, such as safety and protection of life. So any shift in the legislative framework, which will result in an increase in security conditions, should be commended. Although the adoption of this law alone in 2014 has caused a lot of debate and criticism in the public of all stakeholders, a certain shift has nevertheless been made. Finally, this dialogue for the consequence was followed by Minister Miranda Mrsic's reaction, whose term of office saw this law and the light of the day, and soon amended the regulation, which I quote, quoted the June 2015 Ministry of Labour now in line with European practice, with the aim of increasing safety at the workplace, but also the redundancies of employers. I'd dare add that it's only partially true. In this direction goes this bill, and the fact is that in certain parts of this P.Z. makes it easier for employers to implement work protection measures. But I still don't think that's enough that I'm going to briefly explain through the analysis of certain points, as well as the proposals of certain parts of the law itself. I believe that a whole new legislative proposal should be put in place, more so that some of the key things are not included in the law which the EU states in many of its official documents as necessary, these are diseases caused by work, the IT sector and the system of economic initiatives and tax relief. This law has not been defined by any of these strategic objectives. So let us begin in order, Article 3(2) of the Law, “diseases related to work are diseases that cause more factors of which work is one of them. ” What does this mean, what are these diseases? This is an extremely important point of the law, and it is really inadmissible to be this broad and unspeakable, by the fact that the European Agency for Protection at Work is publicly and unequivocally listed on its website which are diseases, which measures need to be taken, which prevention. Many times in the analysis, we point out that there should be as little general terms in the laws as possible and more factual specificities. Article 4(2) and (3) of the Law ‘this is a proposal that the provisions of this Act do not apply to a craftsman who performs himself as well as to an employer represented by a single natural person who is also the sole employee of employers, except when they carry out certain activities of a person at work for them and that they are obliged to apply this law when they work together with another person or with several other persons at the same place of work’. Article 6 of the Law, ‘The employer is obliged to include workers or their representatives in the risk assessment process and to have documented information about it’. This is good and important precisely, the Agency for Labour Protection states the importance of involving workers in the risk assessment process and clarifies on its pages the importance of providing resources, knowledge, the need for micro-organisations and small organisations to assess their own risks. Considering that such business entities account for 90% of the Croatian economy, then the importance of this legal measure is even greater. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is positive and certainly going towards reducing the cost of employers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The law, although this amendment in law does not change the essence of the article itself’, is important to be shown here. The article provides that the employer may use supervisory devices as a means of protection at work under the conditions laid down in this law. However, it further states in paragraph 4 that ‘if the control devices are all part-time monitoring of the workers’ movements during the performance of the operations or if the control devices are set up so that workers are able to use supervisory devices solely on the basis of the previous consent of the working council throughout their performance in the field of supervisory devices. If the law allows the employer to use video surveillance, if the employer has informed the worker in the conclusion of a working contract and the existence of the same point 6, we do not really understand why the working council or the union commissioner, with the right and obligations of the working council, would determine the person who has invested his own resources in the business and his own space or those in the lease which he may or may not be in the same.’ Article 14 of the Law, ‘this article relates to Article 57. The law, although this amendment in law does not change the essence of the article itself’, is important here too. The article is set out in points 1, 2 and 3. "The employer 1st is to carry out non-smoking protection against tobacco smoke, 2nd to prohibit smoking at work meetings, 3rd to prohibit smoking at work." What exactly is the employer’s duty to protect non - smokers when smoking at the workplace is prohibited by law? Why would an employer be responsible for someone’s irresponsible behavior rather than for an irresponsible worker? Article 18 in order not to specify what the employer is obliged to provide and, of course, to pay for his money, the Commissioner for Protection at Work to read... and then in Article P.Z. states the ‘Employee shall not cancel the labour protection officer’s contract during the conduct of his duties without the consent of the working council or the union commissioner who has the rights and obligations of the working council nor in any other way put him in a more unfavourable position than his or her working conditions and the other workers’. I'd like this to be explained to me. I'm absolutely in favor of the rights of the worker, but what if that worker doesn't carry out his duty? I don't think these things are good because they don't in any way encourage excellence in law enforcement, as these legal provisions encourage employers to make work contracts for a certain period of time. In this deficient labour market as Croatia has become, believe that there is no employer who will fire an excellent worker for no reason whatsoever while the flexibility of the labour market and legal regulation have proven to produce excellent results and deny a general opinion of workers' indifference. The remaining articles of the law are mostly about the adoption of the rules by the minister, inspection and penalties. And here I will now stop and mention the following responsible for this law as a whole, full of employers' mouths and reliefs for them, although 95% of the law speaks exclusively of employers' obligations, and then we have information that for these same employers more than 30 legal penalties ranging from 2000 to 100,000 kuna. So this legal logic says: the employer is obliged to provide and pay for all conditions, all rights, education, pay for the work of the Commissioner, etc., but it is also, this same employer, and we see it by the number of prescribed penalties, in fact the only and exclusive culprit for all failures and what bad things God doesn't give up happens. So I ask the question, then what is the function, meaning and responsibility of the Commissioner, which should the absurd be complete, the workers choose between themselves? If he is provided with all rights by the employer, then I guess the logic of things also gives rise to certain obligations and responsibilities. These laws cannot definitely be classified under the facilitatement of the employer's business. In conclusion, I think it would be best to conclude this analysis of what this law does not have, or there is no law on these two key things that it could recognise, the IT sector, the European Agency for Work Protection has launched a project of predicting possible effects of rapid development in the field of information and communication technologies, including artificial intelligence, robotics on safety and health at work. The aim of this project is to provide governments of Member States, trade unions and employers with the necessary data on changes, their impact on the nature and place of work, and all those problems that will represent in terms of health safety at work by 2025. After all, this is no future, this is the present, and our legislation does not recognise the same present, but when the Minister of Administration in charge of digitization tells us that depending on the signal, it is a miracle that our legislation will ever be recognized. Economic initiatives, here we come again to a key point that should be a valorisation of success and excellence, how? Simply, through tax relief and lower contributions for companies that are most successful, pay particular attention to micro and small enterprises, while reliefs must be high enough to encourage all participants to participate. Such a system of relief should have clear criteria and be designed to be as simple as possible so that the administrative burden is low for both employers and the state. In particular, it would reward those companies that would promote innovative solutions to work protection so that others could implement them through the sharing system. These things should be an integral part of modern innovative law, in order to encourage the fight for excellence and creativity among market entities where any invested kuna or euro would generate new values in the future. For this very reason, I call for the creation of a new, modern and forward-looking labour protection law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84914	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of that GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative of Silvano Hrelja will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84915	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Now, I expected a colleague from the MOST to have such a liberal attitude regarding one of these protection laws at work, I didn't expect that. It should be recalled that the law based on the social partnership in the Republic of Croatia was passed long ago in 2002 and before that there was a Law on protection at work because it must exist, because these laws determine the responsibility of both workers and employers, whether for the damage done to the worker or the employer, therefore it cannot be without written norm, and the accompanying part of this law has always been rules for working in a safe way in certain specific areas of human activity. So in 2002, with a very long social dialogue between employers, trade unions and with a small mix of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a new Labour Protection Act was passed and it remained in its original form, and in 80% of its content remained until today. Some things have turned out to be too much of a deal, so they've been taken off, some of them undernourished and always through the evaluations of the law, over time, can come up with these positions that some things have to be corrected. I recall that the law was passed in 2002, really after the hard negotiation between the employers' union representatives, with the professional support provided by the government of the Republic of Croatia, and as one of the participants of this trade negotiations on the union side, I must say that there has been a lot of work in the reasoned debate and that each position, on the one hand, has been argued and there has been a compromise and such a law has passed along with some 2 amendments here in the Croatian Parliament, so with a large level of consent. We have now come to a change and supplement, unfortunately the cause was an action plan, a reduction of the employer's costs, initiated by the government. I understand that the government has an understanding of the additional costs and administrative costs of employers, that there is reason to reduce them, and now it is only a matter at what cost and whether employers and trade unions are again as key factors for the functioning of this law to agree on it. One more thing I'd like to say in the introduction, we had a great legal framework for working protection from 2002 on, if you remember, in pre-accession negotiations, in Chapter 13, if I'm not mistaken, there was no problem with this law. So all that was then in 2002, everything drank water for high EU standards. Our pain is somewhere else. We're always sneezing in the app. We write nice and good laws, but then after that we don't do well in the implementation or we don't use personal protective means or we don't examine machines, devices or we don't edit communication routes or leave them clean and unscathed etc., and we just have this problem that we do quite often campaign work on the construction site and in some way neglecting the dangers that exist in places of work, we suffer practically from so-called. organisational blindness or blindness to the risks present around us. Therefore, I say it is not a problem in these laws, we could support this law, but the GLAS Club and HSU will at this moment be restrained around this law only because of one fact, not because of the content. This can be proposed, can be discussed, but because of the fact that social partners and employers and trade unions have their opinions on this law under the Committee on the Law of the Economic and Social Council. Which means that we need to make an effort to make their positions clear and come to a kind of compromise. This should be our task, because indeed if the law is created by a good trust between employers and trade unions, that is how changes should be done. Every honour the government intends to release employers of some excess costs, I generally agree to discuss it but in a way that is reasoned and compromised. Now, as far as this law is concerned, I'd like to have one, three, four remarks I'd like to discuss, so I'd like the law to have a second reading of the answer that part of the law does not apply to craftsmen and self-employed people. Namely, we can free the administrations and that part of the records and all that it speaks of since objectively this is not necessary for craftsmen or self-employed persons, but we cannot release them if one carpenter is the application of basic and specific rules of protection at work, the rules are what defines the installation, devices, ventilation, etc., and special rules are the ones that define which protective means a man must bear when working with such sources of danger. Therefore, I think this should be said, I agree that we can free them from the law's work, especially the administrative ballast, but we can't say it, and I must say, no one can release them from the protection of their work in the context of the harmfulness and dangers that arise when they carry out their activities. As regards one observation concerning the Committee on Protection at Work, it was said on our Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership that this is where social dialogue is being developed. I can agree in part, but it's not a basic goal. The Committee on protection at work with the employer is in fact the heart of full protection at work, it is the place of meeting and education and protection commissioners at work, the exchange of views with labour protection experts, with the head of the employer for protection at work, with the work inspector who should come and he does not have the role of the inspector who has come to punish, he has this list of preventive roles, so he is invited to the board that the whole committee, therefore, and the employer and the employee representative and expert advises with the labour inspector how to solve a particular problem, how to improve protection at work. I only miss one link in this law in general and that is the active role of the insurance company. Little better knowers of the work protection system in European countries know what is a fantastic role, for example. AUFAs from Austria, which is a single state public insurance company and how they influence the implementation of work protection. Through the system bonus malasses, if you invest, if you spend, you pay less insurance, if you don't invest, you get accidents at work with your responsibility, then you pay insurance, but you pay a lot of expenses, a bunch of receipts that the worker would otherwise have, and now he can't make them happen, but since he died at your place of work, at your employer's, then you have to give him a certain amount of compensation for the damage he suffered at work for life. We can say they're poor employers but the fact is that employers hire workers to do certain work. They are obliged to secure their work in a safe way, and they are obliged to make them work in a safe way but the stronger link there are employers and most of the responsibility for the implementation of protection in the work falls on them. So, that heart of protection at work so far has been written to meet at least once every three months. In the bill of law, we have at least six months now, but we have another provision in the criminal provisions where it says, I will punish you if you don't meet at least once in six months. I'm offering a compromise proposal here, and you think about it. I would write here that the Labour Protection Committee meets normally three months, not least, as a rule, to give ourselves some time to relax these obligations, and then it makes sense for me to go the next step if no one is found in six months, to pay the fine. But let's give them some maneuver space, not now I'm telling you, you have to meet at least once in six months, then you forget, and then I hit your ticket. I mean, I'm offering that proposal, you think until the second reading we have time. That'll be on the record, and we'll discuss it. The second story is related to an increase in the number of members of the National Work Protection Council. I must remind you that in the creation of this modern Labour Protection Act, we will have the following principle, we will have the head of the office as a member of a national council that does not enter the quotas and we will have two members in front of employers, two members in front of the government and two members in front of the union. And for a time, it worked that the government also appointed a representative from the field of health and representatives from the field of labour and pension systems, and now I see no reason why it could not be explicitly written that it remains without an increase in numbers because it requires an increase that the government has four representatives, two from the Ministry of Labour and two from the Ministry of Health. I think it's unnecessary, these are people who are volunteers in actions and at various conferences and round tables are always to discuss. It is not necessary that this body, which should be extremely professional and know what is the point of protecting the work to spread it. Costs aren't great because people do volunteer work, but I don't think it's necessary because it used to work that way. As for first aid, I have this different thought than what is written, from what is proposed. In fact, I would somehow tie this law to the Road Safety Act. Namely, we have a million and 200 thousand drivers in the Republic of Croatia. In order for someone to become a driver, then they have to pass the first-aid course and get confirmation that the first-aid course has passed, and I think we're all drivers here in our assembly, only Vice President Furio should be taking first-aid care because he's not a driver, but the second-most of us shouldn't be able to take on that general first-aid kit, the one that's wanted, which should be all around, I think we're trained. But for special risks, for special hazards at workplaces, acid hazards, dangers I don't know, radiological radiation, etc., there's no one on 20. There, all those working with this should be trained to provide assistance in such specific dangers. So I'm offering to think about it well because quotas 1 to 20, 1 to 50 don't mean anything, and it's humane to help a colleague at work, to his fellow citizen, to some transport participant, to a citizen, to a foreigner, to anyone, to anyone in general, it's very humane, and it should be our obligation to educate everyone from time to time to, periodically educate ourselves to provide first aid. Here, I said the reasons why we'll be restrained, but they're not so dramaticly hard reasons to talk about this law being bad, he's on a good track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84916	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84917	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, after Mr. Hrelje who actually made a whole synthesis of this proposal to amend and supplement this law, I would actually agree on a lot of things Mr. Hrelja was saying. In preparation for this presentation, I know, I read something about 2002 when it was actually about certain things that were then and in this Law that was passed during Mr Miranda Mrsić and now these changes and additions actually... Of these 80% things in the law left. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's actually about some other things that might be important, important because of employers and unnecessary administration. So, the Labour Protection Act itself, I said in 2002, and its amendments and additions were adopted in 2014, with the fact that it was the corrections to the Labour Protection Act and the Regulation itself with the legal force to amend the Labour Protection Act, and afterwards this Regulation was put out of force. What the secretary of state said, so what is the purpose of this law. Therefore, systematic improvement in the safety of workers' health and work-related health protection and prevention of work-related injuries, occupational diseases and other diseases. As Mr. Hrelja said, the current law is insane. So, with great administrative burdens and leading to unnecessary employers' costs, we agree with that and we heard in replicas that some things could and should change. These proposed amendments and amendments to the law will not affect the reduction of the level of safety and protection of workers at work, i.e. the risk of labour injury and occupational illness will not increase. The implementation of the Republic of Croatia's action plan itself, for administrative dispensation of the economy, is also a service on certain issues that I will raise here. Therefore, the reduced frequency of holding the Committee's work protection sessions, although it is possible to maintain, once every 6 months, and, if necessary, a reduction in the number of trained workers to provide first aid at work, i.e. to the total number of employers' workers, a clearer determination of the obligation to report injuries at the place of work, since failure to fulfil obligations has been sanctioned through breach and reduction of obligations on the possession of documentation and protection at work on a natural site, i.e. on the time period of work, which we have actually had a report and a working group president who actually spoke about it on the parent board. As a result of the provisions of this labour protection law, due to greater transparency in the implementation and correction of general discrepancies, this is about the amendments to this law and the harmonisation of certain regulations, i.e. the provisions of the Law on Protection of Work with other regulations, which she spoke of in the introduction and respected secretary. Now, there may be one information from the State Statistics Office on 31.3.2017, where there were 149 thousand 0.52 active legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. This is what Mr Djujic spoke about, and something in the replica, so 36,000 companies without going to one employees, i.e. 70,000 companies with 0 or 1 employees. And they were all required under the current law to carry out their obligation to protect their work. Of the 10-49 employees there are 11 thousand and 300 companies, and of 50-249 employees are in 3187 companies. And of 250-499 people are in 304 companies, and with 500 employees is 249 companies in the Republic of Croatia. From this data, it is actually evident that only these 3 thousand 470 companies that I have listed out of 149 thousand legal, active legal persons, have an obligation to form this working protection committee. So, just 3740 companies. Therefore, more than 130,000 legal entities will positively feel these amendments and additions to the proposed law. I will say something without repeating myself about the objectives of the amendment of this Labour Protection Act, therefore, the emphasis is on the participation of workers in the risk assessment and addition of infringement provisions in this respect, redefining of infringement provisions, in relation to holding meetings of the Committee on Protection at Work or defining infringement provisions regarding risk assessment obligations. When we talk about craftsmen and self-employed persons, we should look at it in art. 4th of the current law, and this proposal is that the provisions and the Labour Protection Act do not apply to craftsmen themselves, nor to the employer represented by 1 natural person, who is also the sole employer's worker, but would agree with Mr. Hrelj, when we talk about certain self-employed persons, or craftsmen, we would say, so risky jobs. So even with the carpenters,... insalators and the like, that certain provisions of this law should apply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposal therefore tracks previous opinions delivered by the Ministry of Labour and Pension System and the dispensation of self-employed persons. As regards the implementation of safety at work, in the performance of certain specific tasks, it shall also be redefined. Paragraph 2 because the current provision has often caused one confusion, so it is proposed that protection at work, in these specific matters, is governed by specific laws, so that, in the performance of certain specific tasks, where, due to their specificities and inescapable contradictions with this law, the general principles of prevention cannot be fully applied, as in particular in the case of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, the police, protection and rescue, protection of persons and property, firemen, pyrotechnicians, and other specific jobs, protection at work are governed by a special law which the president of the working group here attended by Mr Gasparov on the very parent board. When I expand the number of members of the National Council, I must say, that I also agree with Mr. Hrelja, the current number of members of 7 could remain, I see no reason, that he must increase to 9 members. But this proposed number of 9 members of the National Council is exclusively tied up by the very segment of health, which, for the time being, is not explicit that it was represented by this national council. And in the participation of workers and their representatives in the design of the risk assessment, the current provision was related to the Article. 18. And she said that the employer is obliged to include workers and their representatives in the risk assessment process, in a manner prescribed by law. The proposal to amend and supplement was that the employer is obliged to include their representatives in the risk assessment process and to have documented information about it. The proposal to amend and supplement the budget classification rules, which are actually employed by the Ministry of Finance, Finance, at the frequency and maintenance of the working protection committee meetings. So, we also had Croatian independent unions on the parent committee itself, i.e. their representatives, who actually talked about some things and referred to this committee as protection at work, where they asked that it be held at least four times a year and was said because of the social dialogue itself, and thus we agreed and unanimously voted that this committee is not serving exclusively and only because of social dialogue but it is said that the essence here is, in fact, the essence of the Labour Protection Act. Perhaps even if you have noticed in the report related to e-Consultation with the interested public, a larger group of interested persons has referred to the inspection, the inspection, the punishment and the infringement provisions, and this has actually been discussed on the committee itself, or this law, it has been defined and explained through the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. Perhaps it should be stressed that the law is in the first reading and that before 2014 this law is consensually de facto accepted in the Croatian Parliament, and I think it is important to stress it this time, given that the law is in the first reading, and that we have had certain remarks from both the HUP and the union, I think that there is plenty of time in this debate both in the adoption and in the second reading, there may be some changes or recommendations and suggestions that could be made to the second reading in order to bring it into the Croatian Assembly. This current law has been in force for almost four years and the need has been observed and therefore these amendments and additions to certain provisions in terms of clearer information of the law, taking into account previous opinions on the previously delivered opinions on the implementation of certain legal obligations, and all with the aim of discharging unnecessary and illogical administrations and facilitating the implementation of themselves by employers, which I am talking about in the introduction about business entities and I think that this will make it particularly easy for self-employed persons and those who have one employee. The HDZ will support this bill in its first reading for these and other reasons set out in these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84918	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sasa Djujic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So at the beginning of my debate, I would like to say that the current Labour Protection Act has been in force since 2014, that there have been a lot of objections from trade unions, employers and all others involved as well as any amendments to these laws, there have been a lot of objections and a lot of dissatisfaction, but it has finally been adopted with certain respects. And what should be said is that for now, it works well, or solidly, but that it still needs to be amended and that it should be improved and repaired. However, I do not think that this proposal for a law that has now been proposed by the ministry will remove the shortcomings that exist in the current law and that perhaps a little more should have been included in these amendments or go a little more radically to change some things, and perhaps it was not a bad idea and a proposal from a fellow member of the Most that it was necessary to approach the whole new legislative proposal. Nevertheless, I am glad that this law goes in the regular procedure so that we have two readings, so that some suggestions and remarks can also be accepted and changed until the second reading. What I want to point out is that, as I said at the outset in my replica, before this debate, safety at work must not be a cost nor be seen as a cost or observed in this context. In well-organised countries, well-organised companies, societies and arrangements, employers who are good employers impose in their businesses and more than prescribed standards when it comes to safety and protection at work, mean not only what is prescribed but also more standards, because responsible employers should still be at the top of their workers' work, because when God does not give up something happens then it is much more expensive than what should be invested in the prevention itself. Unfortunately, however, our society is not yet at that level and our employers are still some, not all of them rarely follow these prescribed standards, let alone impose some other standards. The second thing, safety at work is a very complex and complicated system which is not only defined by law but also by numerous sublaws, decisions, rules, etc., so that some of the things that are now being proposed here could already be solved by sublaws, if it has not already been the case for a change of the whole legislative proposal. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, I say that we will now be restrained at first reading on this proposal because we do not agree with some of the things that are proposed here, but there are also some good things that are proposed, and we hope that some of our remarks will be respected by the second reading, and then we will decide at the second reading how we will ultimately set ourselves up when we vote this law. But here to go specifically to some of the remarks that we have, so when it comes to craftsmen, what's said in the introduction by the secretary of state, but also by colleagues before me, we certainly think that craftsmen can't be left out of the obligations they have so far, okay can be talked about these companies that my colleague before me talked about that they don't have any employees and where no one is working, but also where there is an employee doesn't mean that because one is employed in a craft or in a small company that is a reduction in the risk of accident or injury at work because these people act in specific conditions in specific environments, means they provide certain services in their place of action, or other people's work, or clients who live in their immediate environment, and therefore their customers are threatened with their services as well as they are, and let one man do in a craft or a company not less than the fact that they are involved in their activities, or chemical activities, which are in some of safety, which they do, or in some of their own doing, or chemical activities, which are not in some of their activities, but in some of safety, or chemical activities, which do, or in some of their activities, which do, or in some of safety, or in some of any. And that is why we believe that they should still be covered as they have been. And the other thing that none of the universal or regional regulations in our environment, in the field of protection at work, excludes the application of protection standards to work for craftsmen or other persons, means there's no such thing in our environment, it's just us in this bill if it passes. Another thing that we would suggest is that it has not been touched too much, it is a constant professional training of safety experts at work. So this proposal even simplifies a little of the provisions in which they should be used in companies. So the safety experts at work are, as their only name speaks, experts. There are first and second-degree experts. These are people who finish higher or higher school, or college, to be trained for this problem, and we think that it should have even given them a little more importance here, that it should have been a little bit more normative to enable them to even be independent from the employer, because when they are on the contract of work, it is okay, but it is not possible to define their role in the company and practice that professionals of protection at work have greater autonomy in their activities and work in public enterprises and state-owned companies, while in some private businesses, unfortunately, often have to carry out tasks of their employers who, nevertheless, in the first place of savings, then we have cases that even though they should be placed rigorously, I do not know, warn their employer that they should have a certain quality of protective equipment, but that they would not be able to take care of their own. We have examples, unfortunately, that people did not report injuries to work with fear of getting fired, for example. in some production plants, and it happens that a man gets hurt at work, and then he goes home and then calls an ambulance after an hour, two, three says he's hurt himself, I don't know, in the garden, because he's afraid he's gonna get fired. And we just think that a little bit, let's just say that, giving more power to experts and independence about the employer to protection experts at work, would give more input to these problems. And that we are not saying that there is a constant need for training and experts and other workers who are working on protection, continuous training and education because the same, their primary task is not to tackle the consequences, but to work preventively and to prevent accidents from happening at all, and how technologies are going forward today and how business is taking place in much different circumstances than before, their constant improvement is needed. What is good here is that the more detailed, although in the first proposal, this was not the case before the public debate, means that the more detailed definition of the concept of serious injury at work, i.e. that qualification is difficult and easier and I know that in the first proposal, it was not prescribed, but I am glad that you have respected the observations which were through public debate and this is good because so far it has been a good problem to define, so that people in the company and the protection experts at work may not be able to even more detailedly standardise it, and that in that case they should certainly use the medical profession, or people whose primary profession is to make it even more detailed, because this normation then facilitates and further inspection of all the consequences. The number of trained first aid workers, for example, is a matter that bothers us in the SDP, so we believe that this flexibility will in no way contribute to the protection, i.e. the reduction of the number of injuries, or to the increase of security, that it will not affect the increase in safety, because no one can convince me that this small number of people who are trained to provide first aid will not leave consequences. It wouldn't be good for us to end up in practice, after the law is applied, if this goes through, after a while we see that it didn't work so we can change it. And this so far provision 1 to 20 has been quite tense and we expected that it would be even a reduction of 1 to 10, because regardless of what we have in society today, a large number and what the colleagues of Hrelja said to people who are qualified to provide first aid and through auto school, craftsmen who deal with certain crafts, I don't know, carpenters, locksmiths, etc. New business and work conditions bring new challenges and new redundancies, new business burdens and new specific operating conditions, so that further education in this field is certainly necessary and this should be increased rather than flexible as proposed in this bill. Therefore, a further reduction in the frequency of holding the Committee's working protection sessions, we also believe that the present proposal once every three months is good, that it should not be extended to 6 months because practice confirms the justification of the existence of a committee that is as an advisory body of an employer, the employer has great benefits from that body and, in fact, we even believe that employers, or that the use of that body, rather than even now, should be used more frequently, is good at what is prescribed by the sanctions if the body is not convened, but we do not think that this deadline from 30 to 60 should be increased, that the responsible management of each undertaking is currently using the service of that body, and not that it is interested in not meeting. Also, an integral number of members of the National Labour Protection Council which is increasing from 7 to 9 members in a way that the minister proposes to his representatives inside, we find unnecessary since this body is the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to which it is responsible for its work, so there is no need now for the minister to interfere, I mean the question if the minister appoints those 2 new members, to whom are they responsible? The Minister or Government, which is the government's advisory body, so basically we believe that this is a completely unnecessary provision and that it is not necessary, is important that the body is represented by social partners, so in Article 6(2). The Labour Protection Act and d may carry out tasks under Article 7 as an advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that it is unnecessary to redefine the work of the Institute to improve protection at work because the Institute is founded as an improvement in labour protection as a public institution owned by the Republic of Croatia for which the work of funding is secured from the state budget. Therefore, the tasks of the Institute are aimed at concrete assistance to employers and other stakeholders in the places of work, and therefore this proposal, which you have proposed, is considered unnecessary to cover a wide range of methods of organisation and to implement measures of protection at work. Anyway, it's good to have these changes, I hope you'll suggest some suggestions and suggestions. As I said, we will be restrained on this proposal, until the second reading we will decide how we will ultimately set ourselves up. We appeal to you to reconsider these matters because the safety of workers working or the safety of workers has no price and it must not be seen as a cost, on the other hand, the fact is that our entrepreneurs, craftsmen and even excessively burdened with parafiscal burdens from various areas, and we believe that they need to be relieved and that the economy should be stimulated but that discharge and incentive must not come through the safety of workers and their health. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84920	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates and the first to come forward is the Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to teach you something about the problem of a serious injury at work. In fact, here in this law it is proposed to define a different type of serious injury at work, I would only problem it because very difficult statistics are from protection at work, they are the same for many years, and now redefinition of serious injuries at work will bring new confusion into the statistics, so think again about leaving the term difficult with stronger criteria or to get some new, but the name of serious injury to work if it moves, then we will have completely different statistics after these changes and additions of the law, and otherwise national labour protection policies are based on statistics, on statistics of lighter, severe injuries to work, days of sickness, etc. Secondly, I see the intention that within three months, the Ministry of Health should redefine the same causes of injury at work. I can admit that these causes are quite difficult in one way defined, perhaps even archaic but they are such 50-years in continuity and have not changed, again because of statistics it will be very difficult when changes in the definition of causes are further monitored trends in protection at work. I know there's something undefined there, cause of work injury, worker negligence, very stretching, or cause injury to the non-application of basic safety rules at work, also very stretching. However, it generally also points out to the Court of Justice if the process comes into effect, because the division of basic rules does not apply, points to the responsibility of the employer because he did not ensure and force the workers to apply all measures of protection until the non-application or application of personal protective means or non-application of specific rules in terms of definition of procedures, infringements of those rules point to non-total, not full responsibility, but points to the majority responsibility of workers, although always for working discipline and adherence to the rules of protection at work, there is the responsibility of the employer because he has to prove whether or not a worker is infrequent, gave him a warning, gave him a warning of his resignation due to the non-application of the rules of protection at work. Therefore, be careful and with the definition of severe injury and be careful, I am not sure that the Ministry of Health is competent to redefine these causes here, yet perhaps part of the Ministry of Health or the Department of Health or Medical Work would be much more competent but generally, they belong under the Ministry of Health, but you should say who will deal with it because if it deals with bureaucracy at the Ministry of Health or HZZO, I'm not sure this will work out well. Otherwise, I thank my colleague Babić for pulling this data out that something over 3,000 subjects is actually obliged to apply this whole law in all segments because, by its size, the number of employees must have both the board and all these details of this Law. However, even in these cases, the basis of work protection is an assessment of harmfulness and danger. So she's the foundation. If there are harmfulities and dangers, protection at work is more demanding, then, more demanding work on board, more demanding work by the commissioners, more demanding work by the authorities, safety experts at work, etc. So, the starting point is from an assessment of harmfulness and dangers, and it is a fundamental document discussed in these very large companies on the working protection committee. And it's good if you're not, then take a look... The report, somewhere I think it was in 2007, 2008 where it talks about our labour inspection, which is focused on punishment, not on preventive action. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Look at one interesting text, I think we've improved the situation a little bit, but not too much. They still come in terms of when something happens and then they hit the fines, but I think the essence of protecting the work is something else. Therefore, preventive action, to be available to all those and to motivate these entities who, within the framework of the Working Protection Committee, deal with protection at work, improve protection at work and seek solutions. So, I agree that those of you who don't have the disadvantages and the dangers based on the assessment of harmfulness and dangers should be freed from certain things and even because this variant is that you don't have to do exactly once every three months where there's no harmfulness and dangers if it comes to offices, if it's any kind of law firm, now you're going to have over 50 employees, now you're going to have a working protection board every three months, and there's no harm and danger. So, more flexibility is required where there is no harmfulness and danger, and this is the task of this and all future amendments and additions to the law, and more respect for rules where pests and dangers exist. What I would also say is, we don't have a problem one on 20 or 1 on 10 or 1 on 50 trained to provide first aid. We have a problem when you come to a workshop where there are pests and dangers, where there are machines with unprotected rotational parts and when you open a first aid box, when there's nothing in it. That's a much bigger problem than if there's one you're going to have? You can be ten times trained to provide first aid, but someone took it home. People, that's ours, in one large part of the culture of work and we, you have to acknowledge that inspectors face it and that employers face it etc. And of course, this is not a protection at work, not a simple job for employers, not for officials, not for commissioners, not for the commissioners, because their helmet is a sort of load, the shoes with a steel cap are a burden, but it needs to be persistent because prevention in the protection of work means reduction of health care, meaning less costs for the health care of society, and it is a deep human and business of general interest, and no matter how much it seems to us, it should persist in protecting people to work. Of course, targeted where it is necessary, rather than bureaucratized, to administer where it is unnecessary, where it can be firmly proven that no rigid implementation of this Law is required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84922	Thank you. Your exposure has caused more replicas. The first is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hrelja, you spoke about statistics and statistics is an indicator, but I also said in my debate, statistics are misleading because it does not include all these injuries which unfortunately are not reported. So a lot of workers don't even report their injuries to fear of being fired, and unfortunately, this proposal doesn't solve the problem at all, and that's one more thing. So, the worker, you said the worker was responsible if he wasn't wearing protective equipment. Unfortunately, the worker is also responsible if he does not wear protective equipment not by his own free will, but because the employer did not give it to him. Because then when the injury occurred, he had no right to compensation in court because I don't know, he didn't have a helmet, he didn't have gloves of adequate quality, but he didn't have any. And these are things that should be defined and be a little bit easier for the workers of that situation. And unfortunately, this proposal doesn't solve it either, I hope that by the second reading we might be able to find some sort of solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84924	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84925	Dear fellow Djujic, look, when we were in 2002, when we were working on the foundations of this Law, it was imagined that workers' representatives, labour protection commissioners, played a proactive role. That they have the opportunity, that's what the law says, to meet the labour inspector. Now it's a matter of free moment, whether we want to work in the interest of the common good, in the interest of our colleague who's hurt himself or we're all going to shut up together because the employer didn't report him to that injury at work. Of course, afterwards you can't even exercise your rights, you're not the basis of the illness is for the injury at work, if it's reported you have 100% sick or damages after that. But the instrumentation to protect the work is built into the law. The other thing is whether we as humans are aware enough that by failing to do, derrogate the entire system or devaste the whole system, the whole system, because he not in one little attempt we have a situation that it doesn't work anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84926	Thank you. And the next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Liposhak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84927	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hrelja, I must agree with you, especially in this part of your presentation on the law enforcement itself, especially this part where you have depicted, what it should look like, in order for the first aid box to be in a certain place, however, when it comes to a certain one is gone. What with us, most often pecks, and especially in certain specific activities, is exactly that law enforcement. So our legal and legal proposals are okay, they've been before, maybe with certain shortcomings, but it's about implementation and control. So we have good, on paper, lex legitimacy and all, and in the implementation of that very often costs us, and that's why situations happen to us where most often the thick end is pulled out by workers and participants in work processes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84928	Next, excuse me, the answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, if you've noticed in a number of laws proposed by my colleague, Mrsic, I'm advocating one of the so-called principles. The bonus maus principle and I call on the insurance companies to enter this system. They're out of the system, I don't know why they're avoiding coming in, but the fact is, that the system of learning according to carrots and beatings works. If you're doing protection at work, if you don't get hurt, not the ones that we hide, but if they don't happen, if you're doing work protection, your insurance level is lower, and if you don't spend the price is higher. So welcome insurance and actively engage, will certainly be a better position and a better level of protection at work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84930	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I do: I agree with you very much. And our laws are generally good, however, it is certainly a matter of application. However, what happens in practice is very often that these obligations of the Labour Protection Act are done in such a number of order, that it is not taken seriously, and those things that, perhaps for that, there are needs, and perhaps not, while some things that should be seriously implemented are not implemented. So from holding rooms, entrances, cleaning ice and some of that kind of banal stuff, which can have very big consequences. So I think, as my colleague Lipoščak said, that we certainly need to concentrate on those things that really matter, which really contributes to protection at work and include how the employer and all the competent authorities are to better control the application of the law itself, and not to bring it all down, in order to determine some kind of paperwork.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84932	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84933	My colleague Sokol and I can agree with you so we have a solid agreement, but I'll give you my opinion. Protection at work is obligations and a process that does not stop. You know, here, 10 years ago, 20 years ago, there was smoking in front of this door in the hall. Our late colleague Srecko Bijelic liked to burn and listen here and watch what was happening in the assembly, to enter the replica of correcting the incorrect quote, etc. Things are changing and still smoking in some room and in this Croatian Assembly today, although there is a law that prohibits smoking in the workplaces, as well as in the ministries. But it takes time to carry out work protection and needs to persist and should be constantly asked to carry out work protection. Of course, there are people who have to control it, whether they are employers' or work protection commissioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84934	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84935	In your presentation, therefore, you mentioned the importance of this law, such as, which goes in the direction of prevention, as well as an increase of awareness in terms of the need to protect workers and employers. And I think everyone, we should all agree on that. Now, as you see it, the fact and do you think that the exemption of craftsmen and self-employed persons from these provisions will contribute to a negative, in a negative sense, and will this lead to an increase in awareness and prevention, or will it actually have a negative impact in this particular sense?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84936	The answer of the esteemed representative of Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84937	So I can, I'm an optimist, and I can say that I believe that after this debate, the Ministry will pay particular attention to this problem, given that a part of the craftsman is really working on dangerous jobs, jobs with rotating parts, where protection at work, names, is inevitable and that it has to be implemented and I don't think he'll appreciate it, and that he'll say exactly what part of the law is not applied to craftsmen and self-employed, and as far as prevention and promotion of protection at work is concerned, we have a fixed day of protection at work, and we usually get together, there are some implementation awards, etc. What I personally am not satisfied with is that we are failing to carry out work protection campaigns in terms of or protection against rotating parts or divisive radiation, etc. that the year is announced and that the entire annual campaign is under way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84938	Thank you. The next individual debate is that respected representative of Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84939	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Today, before the Parliament, there is a law that goes towards reducing workers' rights. And no one can argue with that. The measures proposed here are going towards destroying the system, which has been built for decades and that is the system of protection at work. Instead of encouraging employers to understand protection at work, not only as a set of formal and administrative obligations they have to fulfil, but to realize that this law, the law that preserves the most precious component of our society, is human resources and human potentials. And that employers finally realize that having a satisfied and healthy worker allows them to achieve much better business results than in another case. The proposal for this law has shown that the government and the ministry have a complete absence of any sensitivity to the needs and position of workers in the labour market and that by abolishing and reducing the employer's obligations to carry out protection at work, in the most cruel way punishes those who are most vulnerable to the labour market, which are workers and especially those workers who are exposed to noises, who are exposed to all those... in their work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Instead of reaching other segments, especially those in the area of unnecessary administration, the government decided to move to the Labour Protection Act, human, health and safety laws. And that's something I don't understand why the government decided that in these cuttings administrative costs, it goes with a knife, a scalpel according to the Labour Protection Act, and that on the other hand it completely ignored those problems that workers have on the labour market. This law is a law that requires a consensus of social partners, workers and employers. For this law, the amendments to this law, you did not get a payt of union confirmation, all union centres had separate opinions in the economic social council. And you obviously didn't realize that this law that was passed in 2014, which was passed by unions and employers, is now going to break over your knees because you want to fulfil certain obligations towards the European Commission. Why do you want to change the Act of Protection in this way? Some things inside you've changed that are good. However, the taste of change goes to the burden of workers. And I will look only at 3 that are very important, which will lead to a lower level of protection at work in Croatia. When we talk about a self-employed person, the European Commission has recommended that Member States extend protection legislation to self-employed persons. The European Commission is expanding, and we are narrowing it down. The European Commission believes that these self-employed workers should be included in the Labour Protection Act because it has proved that these workers, some of whom are also owners of their own companies or are self-employed, have a very high risk of harming their work and I do not understand why the Ministry and the Government have set out to exempt them from the Labour Protection Act. If you looked at the indicators, they're very clear. In 2015, 165 self-employed persons were injured, 2016. 127. Therefore, changing the law, taking into account the perception of the employer without a broadly reasoned debate, is indeed irresponsible and irresponsible. I wonder why this government once again goes to the employers? Because it is clear that a self-employed person cannot and should not apply all the provisions of the Labour Protection Act. But instead of ending it, you should have found a way to make it possible for these self-employed workers to implement the Labour Protection Act. Employers who do not apply the laws, because they do not know what and how, are indeed not the welfare of society and no such approach or apology should be respected. Why is HDZ running away from it? I ask the promoter why you don't care about the protection of workers in Croatia? You have once again shown social insensitivity. Meetings of the Working Protection Committee are not an administrative burden on the employer, but rather an improvement of work protection. The purpose of the Labour Protection Act is to improve health and safety. The committees are places where it is done, committees are where it is being negotiated and it is not an employer's administrative expense, but it is the place where it will solve all the conflicts that are taking place in the protection of work, instead of going to court, that the employer pays compensation for it, it can be resolved on the Committee on Work Protection. And by reducing the number of commitments, the number of meetings you are going to formally to employers, but you are going to harm both employers and workers because investing in dialogue and prevention is not an administrative burden. I ask the promoter, if foreign companies in Croatia can train all their employees to provide first aid, which is good for society, which is good for the company, which is why you are now going to cut the standard that we have set for the current law? For you, providing first aid is an administrative burden. I'm asking you again, what if there's an unwanted incident at the workshop site, the one who's trained to provide first aid isn't there, I don't know, he went to the bathroom, so there has to be state secretaries, but he's not, because when there's only one he can't be. What about vacations? What are you going to cut this for? First-aid courses are good, not only for employers but they're good, here's academic Reiner, it's good for society, if we can't train citizens through the Red Cross courses, let's train those who work to provide first aid to their colleagues, so they can provide first aid on the street. We now have defibrillators in many places in Zagreb, we have defibrillators in companies, who will use these defibrillators if you have not trained them, a defibrillator to help a man and can kill him. So I don't understand why you're going to eliminate this standard and reduce that standard because it's simply something that's a civilizational fluid. If foreigners, which is why in Croatia, why do you go to the employers' hands, because this investment in the first aid course may also help someone of yours, the secretary of state, or someone who crashes on the street because of the heart fibrillation and the one who knows it will know his help, the one who doesn't know will just watch that man die. And I don't see why you did it except go along with the European Commission, but I don't think the European Commission would exactly agree with that, and I believe that by the second reading you will change that. I believe that these decisions by the Government in this field of labour protection are embarrassing, not to reduce costs but ultimately to increase, and not to talk about increasing deaths because these amendments to the Labour Protection Act are not what Croatian citizens need, it is not what workers need, and I hope that you will change things until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84940	Thank you. And your exposure has caused more replicas. The first is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84941	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrsic, you said, you were talking about self-employed persons and excluding them from the provisions of this law, excluding them from the provisions of this law definitely increases the risk of the injuries of those persons on their work. Now, you said one more sentence that these provisions like them go hand in hand but really, it's just like, long-term going to harm them because the increase in injuries will lead to that, they're self-employed persons, as a rule the person who only carries out his activity, in his firm. And now if this person gets hurt and can't work for a long time, work in his company and perform that activity, he's long-term damaged he's basically left out of work, left out of bread. And basically this tiny savings that these changes are going to get, in the end it's a much, much bigger loss in reality than it's going to be with this change.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84942	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84943	The secretary of state is gone, but they'll probably hear our discussion. You said well, this is just an apparent help to self-employed people because if that self-employed person comes in now over the summer there's a big traffic traffic, so she gets help from a student on the job contract or someone who's employed by the Employment Service will come in and it will be subject to the law. And then what? And these are the illogicalities that we have in this law, when you don't apply yourself, but when someone comes to you, then the law is applied in full scope. That is why I, in my discussion, pleaded that instead of exempting that it was necessary to find a way to spend some of these parts of the Law on protection in work through self-employed persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84944	The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84945	Thank you, Vice President. Mrsic, I agree with you that this law is important for both workers and employers and that it is not good to bring it without the consensus of trade unions, employers and employees and it is good to go to another reading and hope that the objections that the trade unions had and included, and I agree with you that there can be no savings and tax discharge, the parafiscal discharge of our employers, which we support on the burden of health and safety of workers. How do you expect a worker to meet his labour obligations if he does not have adequate protective equipment, how can he carry out his work obligations if he still has employers who do not pay regular wages and let alone buy equipment? And on the other hand, of course, there are employers who would like to do it, but because of the parafiscal burdens, I can't. So that balance must be found and the communication of all stakeholders must make a quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84946	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84947	Dear colleague Vlaović, you said well, administrative discharge should go, work should be relieved, the employer should be relieved but not through this, not through the Labour Protection Act. I know it wasn't the Ministry's intention either, but it was the pressure from the second floor of the cabinet of former Minister Dalic who wanted to post-poly some administrative savings, so she liked it so that it would be convenient to hit the Labour Protection Act. But she didn't remember to hit on some other laws from the economy where there'd also be a walk in it any more because there's not going to be any savings here. There'll be more expense here. This is just eye-stamping to the European Commission that we're doing something and we're doing it at the expense of workers and we're at the expense of a system that's been done for years, which is good, that needs to be upgraded and not destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84948	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84949	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Mrsic, I am sure that this is not what the European Commission has asked us for these amendments and supplements, it would not have occurred to them. And secondly, I'm asking you one question, given that you know systems and you're a doctor, the question of definition of working ability is replaced by the concept of health skills. If it were a medical ability to do a job in a particular workplace, I might be able to accept it, although I lack a psychophysical ability because working ability is the sum of these abilities. I can be a health professional, therefore, of orderly health, but at work I have a certain nox that I am allergic to and it affects my work ability and why it should not be said that working ability is a concept of retirement but is a link between this law and retirement to doing a job change in accordance with the remaining workability.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84950	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84951	Yes, dear colleague Hrlja, in my discussion, I didn't have time to look back on the problem. You change two things in a law that is bad, a serious injury to work, so a serious injury in the workplace is moving, and it's known that it's a serious injury, maybe it should have been explained a little bit better, but it shouldn't have been abolished, and the working ability is replaced by health skills that no one knows what it is. What does health care mean? It means you're medically capable of working. But what you said, I'm not capable of doing, I don't know, in the dust in the noise. Someone's like who's deaf and medically capable of working, but he can't work in a workshop where there's noise levels, on cranes and somewhere else. So I don't see why it's changed, why it's changing the ability that we all know what it is. It's a link between the pension system and this system, I don't see at all why it was done like the whole law was changing nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84952	Thank you very much. And the next individual debate is that respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84953	Thank you, Vice President. So the very purpose of working protection is essentially to create safe working conditions in order to enable work processes without certain delays, but what is most important in order to enable the insurance of life and health of all those workers involved in these work processes. And there is not today any activity that does not lead to certain threats and certain dangers for all those found in this work process. However, statistics today show us that certain occupations, that certain activities through statistical data are more dangerous than others. This is why I came forward today, in fact, I would like to point to a certain number of problems or particulars, and also to the very parts of this law that are related to forestry as an activity or to forestry as a series of related occupations. I've been stressing this House a few times, and I'm going to repeat that only forestry or all the activities that are related to forestry, all the research puts them amongst those for life the most dangerous, and after the outcome of the deaths is actually a fatal accident, the foresters and all those involved in activities in forestry are alone... with the miners. At first, I must also say that the protection in forestry in the last few decades has been raised to a very high level because of the new technologies that are being introduced, but also because of the increased number and increased concerns and actually insisting on education. In the first place, I would also like to commend and mention the Croatian forests as a company that has the largest number of forest-bound employees, but also Croatia's agricultural and forestry advisory service. However, I have several proposals and related to this legislative proposal that might even better define or explain certain situations. Here we go in a row. In Article 56, paragraph 4 which reads that the employer is trained to provide first aid is obliged to submit a written decision on the appointment to provide first aid and to inform all other workers who are trained and appointed to provide first aid. He believes that, specifically in forestry, this may only further complicate and create additional paperwork on the workshop, perhaps you should consider keeping it as it has been so far because it has worked quite well so far. Article 65 of the amended paragraph 2 also states that the employer is obliged to inform the authority responsible for inspection of the injury caused by the room or at the place where the employer performs the work for which emergency medical care has been provided to the worker or person at work and for which the injured person is detained for medical treatment. With this change there's a possibility at least I'll say strange situations, e.g. The injury to the work to which the inspector will be required will also be considered an injury where the worker is, for example, Assisted by the possibility of certain allergic reactions or similar reactions, and the same was kept in the hospital or hospitalised. On the other hand, the inspector will not have to call for injury to the work of a man, for example. The broken body part, then he was immobilized and the man was sent home to e.g. because of the scheduled deadline for the operation and the like. From personal experience, I can tell you that we've had a working man break a new one, pull a joint or something, then put in a rainbow, but he doesn't stay on hospital treatment, and then it all gets complicated, ends up in surgery, or he uses long-term illness or something like that. So far, the inspector referred to serious injuries that were very clearly known, which were fractures and all those serious damages that the doctor estimated were serious injuries and made sense. Now the inspector will have to be informed of injuries where the worker will be detained for treatment, which may, for example, be banal from this example to those others where he will not be hospitalized at the same time. And I must stress that the inspectors themselves are overbooked we can say it like that to work. Personally, I think their numbers should be increased, and I really think that this will create a certain problem in the implementation of their work, since it is an art. 23. Inspector defined that he must immediately conduct surveillance in a case like this. Also, I would refer to some items of the Law that do not change, but perhaps it would be good to think in that direction. Initial Art. 70. A law that does not define that a worker's commissioner must be chosen, but that it says that it can be chosen. I am personally convinced that if we have already introduced the law and recognised the role of Commissioners for Labour Protection, I see no reason for this provision to be optional but that we can introduce it as mandatory because I do not think it creates additional costs for the employer, and the role of such workers is very important. Also, what we do in forestry relatively much trouble and confusion, it is a provision that is defined by Article. It's 75th, which is connected to joint workshops. For example, Croatian forests are considered to be an investor if works are done with two or more performers and are obliged to make all advances meanings, from the arrangement plan for jobs and beyond. The most common thing is that the works of the Croatian forest are performed by another performer, which is considered by the law as two performers. I think it would be better if the law defined that a joint workshop is what a contractor does with two or more performers. Why am I saying this? At that time, one would avoid responsibility for that one performer who was involved in the work, and then he would have to report his workshop and his works himself, and he would have to plan the arrangements for the work he would do. I think it would further raise awareness of safety and safety at work especially with private performers. Part of private performers do so in a very good and satisfying way, but part of them is still a few years of helmet for all these provisions. Believe me, it's very difficult to take care of safety at work, but it's also very difficult to ensure safety at work on joint workshops, where for example. The private entrepreneur makes the extraction of wooden varieties in the same department while the employees of the Croatian Forests are being lured or cut, and these situations can sometimes be avoided. That's it. I wouldn't last any longer. This is a short cut through this legal proposal from forest shoes from the forest corner and I hope you will consider these suggestions until the second reading. What I would like to do just once again is that we have more or less legal acts, the legal regulations for work protection are good and they're positive, only that we often do the math in the implementation of these laws, and I think we can make further moves there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84954	Thank you. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84955	Dear colleague, I agree with you as far as the labour inspector is concerned. First of all, there's a small number of them, and secondly, they're less paid than the other inspectors and they have a lot of bad working conditions, and somehow it's not some popular inspection job. It is necessary to know a lot of expertise, to know a lot about work organisations in various activities, because protection at work starts from designing and organisation of work and from using new technologies. So, if it was just any one of us would deal with it. You have to be a little bit in love to figure out how to do something better and safer. I have some experience when I took our people to a shipyard in Italy, so then they had a vanity attack and told me we were doing it just as well as others, and it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84956	The answer of the esteemed representative of Liposhak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84957	Thank you. Comrade Hrelj, I agree fully with you as regards the labour inspector, especially this part, that it is not a very grateful job and that the perception of these people, these employees are very negative for the employees themselves and for the workers they are actually inspecting. What I would like to emphasise is that we should focus on this part is not only the goal, it is not only the purpose, both the labour inspector and the experts in charge of protection of work, repression and punishment of workers. What we need to do more often and more stress is to educate and warn about some of the wrong actions that are happening in the work process in order to avoid the negative things that are happening.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84958	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague Lipoščak, you are on your own example, as a man who worked in the Croatian forests actually moved from theory to practice and it is quite different when we talk about the protection of work from the perspective of Croatian forests or shipyards, or, for example, at my hospital or some law firm. So it's inconceivable for me that there's no emergency or that because of the paper, don't report it as a protection at work. Maybe because we're a health care facility. I would like to take a brief look around, so here was mentioned, a colleague of Hrelja also mentioned the difference between work and health skills. So there's a dichotomy and this health care ability applies primarily when there's a particular kind of therefore, the jobs with special working conditions and what's also highlighted, so here it's very important to highlight the distinction between labour inspection and medicine work which unfortunately has been devalued quite over the past few decades and it's not good and it also needs to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84960	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of Liposhak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84961	I thank my colleague Cellic. I agree with you that perspectives are different. The working conditions are different. However, this must not be a reason for the protection of work not to be implemented both in certain, let's say, office conditions and in those conditions that are sometimes very unfavourable for the health of workers, both due to external weather conditions and to the methods and technologies themselves. As far as labour and medicine inspections are concerned, I also fully agree with you. What bothers us most, or the problem most, is the insufficient number of experts, as well as the inspection, but also in the medicine of work, and I believe that there is much we can do in this field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84962	Thank you very much. The next debate is that respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84963	Thank you, dear Vice President. This law is a further reduction of labour rights, especially when it comes to their protection at work, when there are injuries at work, so you leave out the idea of serious injury. It's hard for you to explain to me why you're leaving it out. Because it will certainly be linked to the damages of workers at work, and later on to their disability. I mean, I would talk about this law in the context of only two things, an injustice which he strengthens and one illogicality that he hides inside himself. Namely, why injustice? We in Croatia have two types of disabled. There are civilian people with disabilities, among them disabled workers and there are Croatian military disabled. Their status is nothing like that. That injustice, the injustice in our society, it seems to me yesterday, and the President of the Republic when she told the cameras that this state was some mother and some stepmother. President of the Republic, no, Nenad Stazic, the President of the Republic said that in front of the cameras. I was a little surprised, not because the president said it, but because the cameras were able to find her. They go with the cameras to the president's office in Zagreb, but she moved the office to Varazdin, they move quickly to Varazdin, she is already in Vukovar, they come to Vukovar, she goes to Zadar and so she can't be found by her office which I am a peasant, I expect her office to move to Dublin now because there will soon be much more Croats than in Croatia. But come back to me the weight of the President of the Republic who says to some the state is the mother and some the stepmother. It is not the only one who warns, the European Commission also warns, I am dragging Nenad Stazic again, but the European Commission. The European Commission, which speaks of the rights of veterans, says the new law has extended the benefits of war veterans. 3995 defenders asked to be recognised for the consequences of the disease, although the war ended 23 years ago. It's only since the new law was passed. There are expected to be twice as many by the end of the year. Thus unlimited recognition of the disease does not exist anywhere in the world says the European Commission, not Nenad Stazic. The European Commission further says, according to defenders, Croatian authorities do not treat the same as other groups receiving assistance or pension from the budget. This law is proof of that. And our situation in Croatia doesn't need to prove it is exactly like that. A colleague, Sasa Djujic, warned that some workers avoid reporting injury to work, lie that they have been injured at home by cutting down the garden because they are afraid of the employer's fines. In HRVI, or among defenders, this is not the case. I have already said that in the first two months almost 4,000 of them have requested recognition of the rights of disabled people and that they will probably be double by the end of the year. Yes, I found a bizarre case. 27 years ago, one of the defenders was in reserve for a month, hurt his toe, now he's looking for disability status. Let's not be surprised, the law allows them to, so people use it. It's completely human, they try it, so if it is, it will be. Now here are some data that clearly show the existence of a terrible injustice in this society. A 100% military disability has a disability of 3800 kuna and should have, perhaps not enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84964	Comrade Stazic, I'm sorry, you're always talking about military people with disabilities, etc. We're discussing the Labour Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84965	Knight, I'm asking you to act knightly and allow the representative to speak, don't let them take away that knightly status they gave you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84966	Of course when he's talking to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84967	Well, I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84968	No, you're not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84969	I'm talking about disabled workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84970	That's why I asked you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84971	Yeah, about disabled workers. Invalid of labor, listen to me knights, there are 1500 kunas at that time, do you understand knights? One 1500, and the other 3,800, and the President and the European Commission say we are an unfair society. Do you understand? Or should I say it again if you don't understand? 1500 and 3800, and I don't think it's 3800 too much, maybe it's too small, because if someone's 100% disabled, then they can't take care of themselves. Then the state has to take care of him, because I guess that's why the state exists as one organ of solidarity amongst people to help those members who can't take care of themselves. And so you don't get me wrong, I don't mean when I'm talking about HRVA that they get too much. Because it obviously bothered you, I don't think. I'd give them more. But he'd give as much to civilian people as he would. Because there can be no difference between the eye and the eye, between the leg and the leg, between the hand and the hand. One leg is lost at work, the other is at war, but none of them have a leg. Don't they deserve the same disability? That's right about blindness, that's how it is about loss of extremity, that's how it is with all the other damages. This disabled work, if it's 100% disabled, can't buy that lift elevator from a wheelchair that costs about 8,000 kuna, the wartime military disability gets it because it's right and it's okay to have the right to orthopedic aid, but why isn't this one gone? That's what I'm asking. Why isn't this civilian here? Why is there no disability? Why does a worker and his disability matter less to us? Why do we underestimate these people and insult them? That's what I'm asking, knight, that's what I'm asking. And to end with one illogicality in this law, it's an article 57 that speaks of a smoking ban, and then says that an employer, well, can't smoke anywhere, and says but an employer can set a place to smoke. Look, if smoking isn't illegal, if it's legal, then the employer can't determine, but must determine the place. We here in the Croatian Parliament have a terrace, you don't have to smoke everywhere, why should you have to smoke everywhere? Either ban the full use of tobacco products so you will be logical, or if it is not prohibited, then the employer must provide a place. I am unfortunately a former smoker, unfortunately I quit smoking, so I am not saying pro domo sua, but I am speaking in principle, that is the principle, these are our fellow citizens who have their rights while we recognise these rights as this legislator, and we have granted them these rights, therefore they deserve certain protection and I ask you to fix it by the second reading and to consider that the disabled is disabled and that in this country we finally, finally, equalize all the disabled, so that at least to some extent we can fix the requirement that all citizens in this country be equally valuable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84972	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stazić, you as an experienced and prominent Croatian politician always amaze me. You've never heard of privileged pensions? 23 600 persons participating in II. World war still has pensions. Widows of fighters are still receiving pensions, they're all privileged pensions and people are receiving, let people live for a hundred years, I don't mind. Average salary, the average pension is greater than the average pension of Croatian defenders, 2600, data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, 2660, fighters 2195, defenders from the Homeland War. And I ask you in the end, will you give up your privileged pension so that everyone has equal pensions? Will you give up your privileged pension when you retire as a retired parliamentary representative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84974	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84975	You're surprised at me as an experienced politician, if it's true that I'm an experienced politician, then I'm not surprised that you're surprised at me, because it's quite logical. I mean, I'm talking about disability here, and all of a sudden you start talking about pensions. It doesn't matter. In no connection with what I've been saying, it proves that you're not an experienced politician, and you'll probably never be. There are 12 preferential pensions or pensions under special rules, so they are not just parliamentary representatives. I remind you that the government of Milanovic has abolished the preferential pensions for parliamentary deputies, it has abolished. That to your stranger, your option never occurred to make it, ever. Therefore, you and I are going to honour preferential pensions, which proves that you are an entirely unexperienced politician.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84976	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed counsel, Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84977	Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues. I am no wonder to you and your attitude, for I know well where you belong, what you are, what you do, what you strive for, what you suffer. But I'm surprised to you that you don't like disabled people, defenders, but how you can love JNA officers who are equally disabled, they were in retirement in '91, and among them Bosko Poljak, the closest cousin of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, is still employed by NP Krka as head of the Technical Affairs Department, after spending the last 23 years in Croatia's pension paid by the Croatian state, and he earned his pension probably in Belgrade, and we allowed him to receive a pension here and to work more in the flower of Croatian tourism in Plitvice. And I'm not surprised to you when I know that in your term of office, you took advantage and that from 2000 to 2001 from 72,383 you increased the number of combat pensions to 78,48. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84978	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84979	You're telling me I don't like disabled people, and I used my entire speech to protect disabled people, one and the other. I don't know if you have a problem with understanding or hearing, but with something you obviously have problems with. And this other pain, the prayer you mentioned, I can't comment on it because I don't know the case, but knowing how you often tell the truth in this House, I believe it belongs to that group of your speeches.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84980	The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84981	Dear counterpart Stazic, you mentioned several times in your presentation of the President of the Republic of Croatia in the context and contaminating with Croatian defenders, and you mentioned several times that it is not Nenad Stazic saying it but rather that the president of the Republic of Croatia is saying it. I would only ask you to explain to me what Nenad Stazic is saying yesterday, I would only ask you to explain to me what Nenad Stazic is saying on his Facebook account yesterday so that we do not respect that we do not understand something wrong, and I will read that it is "Are you willing to go to Ireland for the Croatian defender to have an advantage". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84982	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84983	I quoted the President of the Republic, and she said that this country is someone's mother and someone's stepmother. So I said exactly that the president wouldn't mind me using her words without quoting. I'm not a plagiarizer, I've emphasized who the author of those words is. Well, I'm not in HDZ to plagiarize. And what I was going to say when I went to Ireland, I think the defender should have everywhere, when putting together a team must be Croatian defenders inside. Well, it doesn't matter if he can play or can't play. So school directors, hospital directors, you've already chosen which school you're going to be in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84984	The next individual debate will be held by a respected representative, Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84985	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, fellow MPs. The protection of work is certainly necessary, I think that we all agree on this and it is certainly necessary to strengthen all possible mechanisms of supervision as well as the application of the Labour Protection Act itself. This is seen among other things by the fact that between 2016 and 2017 we have a jump in the number of injuries at work from 16.235 to 17.769. But what I would stress here is that it should be precise, so the fact is the system of protection at work has highlighted a lot of unnecessary administration. In that sense, I think it is necessary to set a distinction between the two types of activities, such as processing activity, that is, forestry, as my colleague Lipoščak mentioned where indeed many of these regulations should not leave what they are but perhaps even sharpen. However, in some other activities such as some office business, etc. the question is whether all the regulations that have been in force so far have been necessary. In that sense, I think this law is going in the right direction, I think it simplifies procedures and reduces the administrative burden on employers, and it certainly needs to be welcomed. First of all, I'd like to welcome this change that concerns self-employed and craftsmen. The fact is that if we look at numbers on legal persons with zero employees, only 19 job injuries, if we take companies with one to nine employees, there are only 5% of the total number of work injuries. So the fact is that although these injuries certainly have an emphasis on labour protection, they still need to be placed on these larger companies and on certain specific activities. The fact is also that in the past, we have had a lot of perhaps pointless and semi-comprehensive situations where craftsmen were punished for not making a risk assessment, which did not indicate where emergency exits were, etc. So I certainly welcome this change so that part of the regulations or regulations on protection of work on certain categories of persons are not applied, but I also agree with my colleague Hrelja. I don't think it would be wrong to specify which regulations and obligations do not apply to them so that there are no obligations arising from protection at work. So I think that part should be specified by the second reading. There is also a question of meeting the Committee on Labour Protection. I certainly copy that the frequency of mandatory meetings is reduced. As far as the Working Protection Committee is concerned, he also mentioned what a colleague of Hrelja said is a provision that should be put into practice once every three months. So if we say that something is in general it's still not a commitment and it still gives freedom to employers not... then within three months but six months. And I don't think this proposal by a colleague of HRELIA would make any difference here. So in any case, I think that this provision and the change in the law are good, and I think that employers who feel that there is a need for frequent meetings have that space, and I'm glad that sanctions are prescribed for those who do not comply with the legal obligation, so I don't think that the level of protection at work will be reduced. As for first aid, what I've seen in practice unfortunately, that system doesn't work much. This is mostly done in order, some lectures are listened to, it is passed, but even when a driving test is passed, it is unfortunately very often not serious. So I generally support this change in terms of this one at 20:1 to 50, but I also agree with my colleague Hrelja that you should consider that the whole system should be seriously introduced through some larger time periods of mandatory laying and first aid, but that these passings and these exams are much more serious than they are now because in practice we see that it actually does not work to a large extent to do order work, etc. Since we've all been more or less gathered not to argue, I think the direction of administrative discharge is good, it must not go to the harm of workers and the protection of workers, but I don't think this proposal is going to work. But what is important is also to prevent what, and we always have a case where laws are passed... that many lobbys and stakeholders benefit from excessive administration from organising seminars, courses, passing exams etc. So I think that simplifying the system is necessary, I think it should be targeted that it should not go to the harm of workers especially in activities such as forestry, construction, etc. that there should be perhaps some additional specific regulations there to strengthen the protection at work and that it should certainly work to strengthen and strengthen the implementation, control the implementation of the law itself, because I say and in my opinion the Law itself is not problematic, of course there is room for improvement, but it is not in itself bad, but certainly the implementation should work to prevent further this trend of increasing injuries to the work that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84986	We're going to the last individual debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84987	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I welcome these amendments and additions to the Labour Protection Act precisely because of self-employed persons and craftsmen. It seems to me that today we forgot that the trades consist of slightly less than 40% of business entities in the Republic of Croatia, and why I reported for this individual debate, precisely because of my Sibenik-Knin County. In Sibenik-Knin County, the ratio is completely different. 60% is a craftsman while only 40% of business entities operate as companies, either a stock company or in some other form. When we add that there is a lot of those doing business as seasonal crafts or under temporary suspension, then we know how much these amendments and additions of the Law will mean for all of them. Furthermore, by analysing in the Republic of Croatia over 40% of craftsmen are service activities. Somewhere around 17% of those who operate in the host and tourism sector. I return to my Sibenik-Knin County where the ratio in favour of hospitality and tourism is even greater. The analysis that we have the most in the store again within the service crafts, then surely these administrative redundancies of the economy and the rationalisation of business will contribute greatly. I'm a little surprised by the colleagues who criticized this law even though they say we should relieve the economy, then we would again retain that obligation to our craftsmen when a craftsman has about 80,000, and employees in the crafts of only 120,000, we know that we have only one and a half employees on one craftsman. Once again, I welcome these amendments and additions, and we must not forget that these small craftsmen and financial experts and lawyers, as well as the cleaners in that same craftsmanship, and indeed at least one obligation will be of little use to you and another appeal to this ministry, and also to all the other inspection services, that when they come to the facilities to be more in the first run, and only later that after that preventive action, they also work with penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84988	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, respecting Secretary of State Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84989	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I would like first of all to mention the basic objective of amending and supplementing this law, and this is, above all, the prevention and strengthening of labour protection, but also the administrative dissipation of the economy in the comprehensive figure of a billion and a half kuna in terms of the whole action plan, which will contribute to the changes and additions of this Act. In any case, safety at work is an obligation on all of us. Both employers and workers and security is what has no price, but it has a huge value, and health and life alone are the most important and every injury that happens. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Intruder Jandroković: My colleagues and colleagues, I ask for a little attention.]] And every injury that happens is the one that's too much and that's only one that's the one that's too much. However, injuries do not generally occur but are caused. So, we're talking about a causal relationship, and that's why this law is about preventing and preventing injuries, as well as improving the work protection system. What we will all agree on is that it is humane and necessary, I would say, even necessarily, to help anyone who is injured and to make that clear, and that we should all continue to work on sensitizing society as a whole in this regard. And I would just like to appeal to the constitutional provision, that is, Art. In 70 C.E., which says that everyone is obliged to pay particular attention to the protection of human health as part of their powers and activities. As regards the number of injuries to work mentioned in the debate, it should only be pointed out that the number of injuries to work in decline, since it counts on a thousand workers, in 2016 that number was 11.5 while in 2013 it was 11.8. What's important is that the number of injuries to work is dropping. Data for 2017 are still under processing and are not publicly available, but will be soon. As regards emergency interventions, it should also be mentioned that for emergency interventions in terms of fatal injury or so on. Major injuries exist in the team inspectorate which is available 0-24 and which reacts spotlessly if necessary or upon application. And just for the end, I stress that this is just the first reading, so all the comments we've had today will be considered, and most of them were just in terms of meeting the work protection committee meetings, or craftsmen who don't actually have employers' status, are themselves, working on that job. And finally, I would say just about the first aid with which there were also a lot of comments that we agree that as many citizens as possible should be able to provide first aid, this is primarily not an element and is not resolved by this Law, but above all by formal and informal education as well as by general culture, sensitisation, education, self-awareness, and that it is extremely important that as many citizens as possible know it and is, however, just once again, this is just the first reading, we will consider all the comments we have received in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84990	I thank the secretary of state. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on protection at work, first reading, P.Z. No. 338, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on protection at work and second, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 80 for, 37 abstentions and 7 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84994	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84995	Thank you very much. ... Dear Mr. Minister, I congratulate you on your trust and your oath and I wish you a great deal of success in carrying out this honorable and responsible duty. [[Applause.]] We will now take a break of 10-15 minutes, because the mandated immunity commission will have its session, to decide on a change in the assembly's assembly, so fellow Horvat can no longer be a representative, as he becomes a minister and we will have a replacement colleague. The meeting is in the hall of Stjepan Radić 133 first floor, giving a break of 15 minutes. I'd like to ask you to be here at 13 o'clock and 25 minutes. It's 13, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84996	We will now do another point, it is a report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2017, and then we will finish today's work. The applicant of this act shall be the Committee for Presentations and Appeals, based on Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Does the report's representative wish to give an additional explanation? Yes, the chairman of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, dear colleague Anamaria Petin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84997	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and MPs. Here is a report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament for 2017. As provided for in Article 107 of the Treaty, the Commission shall The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall, once a year, present a report on their work to the Croatian Parliament and inform the representatives of the Croatian Assembly of the irregularities observed, violations of the legal rules, as well as the rights of citizens in the proceedings before the authorities of the state administration and legal persons who have the public authority and propose to take the necessary measures to remove them. The annual report on the work of the Committee shall be a combination of the work and statistical data of the work of the Committee by presentations and complaints. In 2017, the Committee received and completed a total of 361 items and included items from previous years. New performances and complaints are 261 and 100 repeated performances and complaints and their additions from previous years, we have even transferred cases since 2012. In 2017, there was an increase in performances and complaints and citizens' address to this committee, which is 14% more than the number of complaints in 12016 and 4% more compared to 2015. As in previous years, of the total number of cases mentioned, the most important part is the presentations and complaints, i.e. 188 refer to the area of justice and administration, followed by the area of residential, municipal and property legal issues, then the concepts of social and health issues, and the area of family protection, the subject matter from other areas and the subjects in the field of labour and labour relations. Just to remind you, the task of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals is to consider the concepts, complaints and proposals addressed to the Assembly and to point to the competent authorities of the state administration for violations of the law and other harmful phenomena of broader significance. In this reporting period, as in the years so far, the Committee of Individual Cases, transferred cases from previous years, has been following up for a long time and has been given an insight into the work of the Committee, which shall act in accordance with the competences to address the long-standing outstanding problems of citizens in proceedings before the competent state institutions of the system and, on the other hand, an insight into the work of the institutions is obtained. In this respect, we are firstly warning, and based on information and knowledge from a number of citizens' submissions received, the non-action of the public authorities, units of local and regional self-government, as well as bodies at all other levels, then on the silence of the administration and the non-response of citizens who, in written statements and complaints, and repeated complaints or personal contacts, indicate that they are powerless in front of the system, resulting in dissatisfaction, mistrust and loss of faith in the institutions. The report that you have all received shows the work of the Committee and the analysis of the work of the Committee in areas. I don't think there is a need to read in specific areas now because everything is visible from the very report that you have received, but it is important to note for the end, which is that in this reporting period, from the total of 361 items processed and written statements and complaints from citizens, the committee has received the evidence of the competent authorities for 316 or 87.5% of the cases until the end of writing this report. Out of the total response of the competent authorities, citizens have been helped to achieve their rights and interests, i.e. 111 cases or 35% were solved in their favor. Citizens shall be assisted through committees and competent authorities to exercise their rights, obtain different information or information, such as the right to one-time cash assistance, information relating to the right to a disability pension, to receive notifications and information relating to the payment of water services and compensation, health water, then the purchase of state dwellings, notice that certain houses will not be destroyed in the construction of fast roads, etc., etc. What is a big problem, and these are cases of silence from the administration, i.e. non-response to citizens. The Committee, in accordance with its jurisdiction, hastening to the relevant authorities, pointed out the need for an urgent solution to the problem. In fact, some citizens have waited for more than a year for answers to the statements and complaints, and their problems have not been resolved even after the Committee haste. You have further in your report, how many rushes are sent to which institution. As far as the report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals is concerned, you have received a full overview of the Committee's work, in particular, of what the Committee has done. You have several examples where citizens were helped, as well as how many sessions were held and what problems were solved at these sessions. Here, I'm asking the MPs to get involved in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84998	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u84999	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Petin, I think this committee is a visual representation of the situation in society and what are the biggest problems. So here it's very clear that every other case comes from justice and administration. So 188 of 361, that's burning questions, but that's not all the problems, of course, to be clear. A lot of people don't even know about the board, or he's informed about how a play and a complaint can be made, so I believe that this is one, let's say, a good sample, that doesn't deviate from the real situation on the ground. I'm interested in what when we refer all these statements and complaints to the Ministry of Justice, how long we wait, if we speak specifically now to inspections and complaints on the work of courts, judges and all judgments of the length of the proceedings. We know what that means, we know it's people, that it's the cancer of our society's wounds, and I think I'm just wondering how much feedback there was about solving and justifying... Thank you very much, if it's short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85000	The answer of the esteemed MP, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85001	I thank the honourable representative for asking. Well, yeah, the biggest problem is exactly in the field of system and justice, what's worrying, and that's exactly the length of the duration of certain cases. As a committee, we refer the questions and the courts plead within a certain time limit that they have been given, but the simple answer is most often that the case is in the process. Of course, we, as a parliamentary committee, must not interfere in the affairs of the court, and that is what citizens must understand, because we are often asked precisely to influence the change of decisions that is what the Assembly Committee must not do. So, if one of the citizens is unhappy with the court's decision, it also points to a presentation to this committee, but that simply according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is not in our jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85002	Replicu also has a respected representative, Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85003	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petin, with previous amendments to the Rules of Procedure, we have introduced this obligation precisely that your committee to which you chair submits the report in... Sessions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's good. First of all, because fellow Curaj said this is a clear lax paper, a pattern of state in society. And on the other hand, the work of the board should be popularized, yes, and I am sorry that this is the response of the MPs given the time when we are discussing it. Unfortunately, the people who are talking to the board know very well about him, because they are so desperate, they are looking for help at all possible addresses. Unfortunately, what the board can do, you yourself said, send out rushes, send memos asking for haste in solving certain cases. And sometimes it seems to me that it serves more as a shoulder to cry than it really does as someone who can help our citizens, who are desperately looking for help.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85004	Here's the answer to the esteemed representative, Petin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85005	I thank you for your comment, since there were no questions. Well, yes, I must point out that 35% of the cases solved are precisely for the benefit of the citizens, where the citizens were wondering, so the board of certain things and information, to guide them because they didn't know who to report to. So 35% may seem a little small, but for those citizens we helped and who we referred to at the right address and who received answers after our presentations and that the items were solved in their favor, it certainly means a lot to them. It is true that we serve a large number of citizens just as a shoulder to cry on, but it is simply for reasons, because they no longer know who to turn to, especially when they are dissatisfied with the work of certain institutions and then they address our committee. Here, as I mentioned, there are even performances that have been being dragged since 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85006	Thank you. I'm opening a debate now. The first in the name of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA, a colleague named Branimir Bunjac, is missing, losing his right to debate. Next on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85007	Thank you very much, esteemed board president. Here is everything said, 361 the subject matter of complaints to the committee responsible, however, is the fact that what the Committee has also referred complaints to our citizens to the competent institutions, is not fully resolved or the administration is silent and that is what the parliamentary representatives and the representatives of the committee must clearly and loudly tell the minister, who come here often, not often and when they need to, send their assistants about these problems. We see, as it is said, that the biggest problem of the judiciary and the administration, that of the 361 complaints, 188 refers in half to the judiciary and exactly, as a basic problem, and there are even quite precise about the long-term judicial process of the jurisdiction of the State's Attorney's Office of Corruption and Organized Crime, the conduct of officials, these are meaning things that legitimize essentially about the real state of affairs that is in society, but the problem is tendence. We see that the judiciary and administration of the complaint of our citizens in 2015 was 158 so there was a decline to 143 and now a huge increase of 20% in 2017 in the reporting period for 45 complaints. It means a huge leap in 2017 of citizens' complaints, which means that the judiciary and the judiciary and the administration are sinking more and more instead of solving the problem. We see this huge problem with the judiciary, so these are pension and health insurance rights, social care and protection, there's a problem, we also see it in this report, but the key problem is what's going to happen is that more complaints are coming, unfortunately, and in undeveloped areas where we have a lack of these rights because local self-governments can't carry out all the obligations and there's more social needs, health needs, I was mostly talking about health homes that have lost what they had because they're targeted towards the privatisation of health care, so that's going to increase that number too. So we don't see in this report the trend of decline, we see the trend of growing complaints like I said mostly in the judiciary, and that's a fact, and that's real, and that's not solved mainly in terms of corruption, as far as the State's Attorney's Office, courts. Therefore, in this report we can read and the competent ministries know this, this report should also be directed by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Administration because this is their problem, the committee can't be the shoulder for crying, they are the ones that Parliament has chosen to do this job, obviously they are not dealing with these problems because I repeat, the trend of growth compared to 2016 for 2018 as regards complaints and complaints about the judiciary and administration is about 35% of what is a huge increase. If we take on this sample that we must consider, of course, that citizens are not all familiar, that they can report to this competent committee of our Parliament but the fact that this judiciary is sinking deeper and deeper, such perception is in the public, it is a key problem and economic development and economic development in the Republic of Croatia because the judiciary does not create stability but destabilises the situation in the Republic of Croatia. So here are the messages to the prime minister who often calls for stability to take this data seriously and the minister of justice, and all the services that deal with this, that the trend is 35% higher in complaints from our citizens to the judiciary and management which says that it is not as stable as it is saying, but that the trend is getting worse and worse and it's growing not in a small percentage, but as I said, there was only a small decline compared to 2016 in 2015, and now there's a huge leap of complaints about justice and administration. Once again here, I would suggest to my colleague that and the board that one conclusion at a session, to send the prime minister these jumps rapid, to get to know him, but he probably won't get this information, he's still convinced of stability because probably the ministers present it to him because this is one indicator, an indicator of what the citizens think and those who are aware of can complain and of the rapid increase of complaints about the judiciary and administration. And that's one of the basic and key problems in Croatia, it's the judiciary, the judiciary, the judiciary, the State's Attorney's Office, we are aware of it and we need to get to know it publicly, this payphone, and the committee in charge of giving the prime minister and the competent ministers the moment the situation and the trend not stability, the uncertainty of citizens, entrepreneurs and economic dissipation in the Republic, and we are talking about social, health and other protection, we see that it is growing there, therefore, and of course it would still not have been for people to go to Ireland, because of these reasons of dissatisfaction and other countries, but this is one demographic indicator that people are increasingly unhappy and no longer trust the system. In public and loud terms, we should say it from this pay phone and here the board can, I am not a member of the board, but here I propose that the presidents of the Board of Appeals of our citizens make one conclusion with this report which is quite exhaustive and detailes all the complaints of our fellow citizens, on this cause of what it is, it is so much, but the fact that our competent bodies must be generally familiar and not that our citizens write to you and you simply have to send a letter, you are basically shoulder to cry and postman in fact. In this case, you have no responsibility, and ministers and prime ministers need to know. So we simply need to meet with this document the competent institutions and that the prime minister, on the basis of what is credible, what can be supported by documentation, to analyse and to finally stabilise our system both demographically and economically and economically, because this report you have brought shows a rapid increase in complaints to citizens primarily on the judiciary and administration. So here are the messages to the competent institutions, the prime minister, that they finally roll up their sleeves and not just run a story about some kind of stability that is not visible from this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85008	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Mato Čičak will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85009	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The annual report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament for 2017, which concerns the period from 2 January to 31 December 2017, sums up the entire year's overall work of this committee and shows us the parliamentary representatives how and how many citizens use this institute to warn us of possible failures, errors, irregularities or violations of constitutional rights by the authorities, bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and legal persons with public authority and professional services. It should be noted that, often, the expectations of citizens by this Committee are large, and business powers are limited or as prescribed in Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. However, the importance of the role of this committee is greater because it shows us that citizens who address the Committee or the Croatian Parliament know and trust that they will be helped in specific matters. In 2017 a total of 707 cases were received, each case is separate and requires special attention and commitment to this. This opportunity thanks to dedicated employees of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Assembly for their well-worked work because they almost daily communicate with citizens either by telephone, fax, e-mail or personal contact. The structure of the address to the relevant committee can be read from the material, but for the sake of our public who looks at us it is important to point out that the most representative and complaints of the judiciary and the administration of them are addressed to the areas, 188, residential municipal and property legal issues of them 69, social and health issues and the protection of families 39, other areas of them 3, work and work relations 5 cases. During this period, two meetings were held to discuss the performances and complaints of characteristic content, warned of adverse phenomena of broader importance, and proposed to take concrete measures to remove them. Finally, the Annual Report of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals in 2017 shows that citizens are increasingly aware of their rights and have faith in the Croatian Parliament and are confident to address cases where they feel that they are discriminated against on the basis of sex, religion, age and education or political belief. Citizens rightly require more transparency and awareness in the work of the body of local, regional and regional self-government, which we in HDZ welcome. It is particularly important that this committee discusses the performances at its meetings, draws conclusions proposing measures for the competent institutions to remove observed irregularities. For this reason, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85010	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Board presidents, colleagues and colleagues. Here's counterpart Chichak had one correct argument, but I'd say he's drawn all the wrong conclusions from the same premise and fact. My colleagues and colleagues, the fact that citizens are addressing this committee and that they need to address this committee does not prove that they trust the Croatian Parliament, only proves that they are desperate to have no one else to address. Because if I can't exercise my rights in court, and the most complaints are about justice, and then where can I go? I think it's a good thing we're discussing this on the tide like I said, it's unfortunate that the interest of the MPs is relatively low, it's also because of the time we're discussing, but it's a good thing that we MPs themselves are aware of what problems our citizens are facing. In my opinion, there are two reports, two documents, or more, but two main ones, which clearly outline the situation in our country, which is the Attorney General's report and this committee's report. So we also have specialised attorneys, but the special report by the Ombudsman gives a clear summary of the image of the rights that our citizens enjoy and the ways in which they realize them or do not realize them. In one entire term, I was a member of the board, and it is unfortunate that sometimes we really are the shoulder to cry to the citizens. And the board as such can't, it doesn't work miracles. I was glad every time we could help someone, even if we could listen to them. But wound cancer is a judiciary and is a challenge to every government and to all MPs, not only the opposition, but to all of us. We need an effective judiciary, a swift judiciary, courts in which citizens will trust and whom they will address with confidence. We need uniform court practice because all courts in Croatia judge by the same laws, but the judgments are not the same. Thus, in certain judgments, they state that people from a good family are burdened by the fact that they are not from such a great family. In other words, I'm afraid we're slowly turning into a country where justice can only be afforded by rare people who have a certain asset. It would be interesting to hear from the Proposer how she works with the institutions and when we discuss the Ombudsman, I was sorry about the board, so when we discuss the Ombudsman, we often underline examples of good cooperation with the institutions, ministries, but also the poor ones, because some unfortunately institutions simply ignore the institution of the Ombudsman. I remind you that the attorneys of all the lawyers choose this very House, the committee is our body in which MPs sit in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it would be very good to know how the ministries and institutions treat the memos coming from the board, precisely because if they do not already respect the people elected by this Assembly, and then at least have minimum respect for the fact that we are sitting here with the votes of some of our citizens. So at the end of the day, the board president said everything, and I would point out once again the problems of the judiciary. It is good to discuss this and hope that there will be opportunities and with greater interest to discuss these problems. I can agree in one hand with my colleague Bulja who says that we should send a letter to the prime minister or use the words of members of the Borg group, Andreja should be aware that Croatia is not a country of honey and milk and, unfortunately, so it turns out, and would not like to be so, that only those with money can afford justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85012	Thank you very much. A colleague named Domagoj Hajdukovic has now appeared for an individual debate, individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85013	Thank you very much. I just changed places. I just want to remind once again that our judiciary is one of the biggest problems, or irregularities in it. The lengths of the procedure are truly unseen. I remember when we were sitting on the board, there are cases that have been dragging around courts for more than 20 years. Therefore, the basic human right should be the right to justice, the right to proceedings before a court that ends in reasonable time and to rule which ultimately protects citizens and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85014	Thank you. That concludes the debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will meet again at 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday, and then the first item will be the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, first reading, P.Z. 334. We'll work next week Tuesday and Wednesday. Here we go. Have a nice weekend. Session adjourned at 14.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-25-0.u85015	Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2017. The applicant is the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous with 113 votes for the accepted Report in the text of the applicant. We are now going to the right point of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, first reading, P.Z. No. 334 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is Minister of Science and Education, Honored Blaženko Divjak, please. Before that, just to welcome once again all together the Society of Students of History Ivan Lučić Rohit from Zagreb, welcome to us. Here you go, Minister. [[Applause.]]
