ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85334	Here's a colleague and a colleague, it's time to continue or start with the only point we have, so I'd like to ask you for a little attention to agree if someone wants that free speech then after we're done with this point we'll have a free speech, so we'll do it all together before the reunion will be in one hour. Now we'd all like to welcome the students of the Second Virgin High School together. Let's all say hello. And our first point today is as we announced: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure, Second Reading, P.Z. Number 259. [[Applause]] The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr. Mario Antonic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85335	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia presents the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. This law has been in force since July 2013 and has defined the issues of arrangements of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. systems of entrepreneurship zones and entrepreneurship support institutions. During the implementation of the law in 5 years, the need for certain amendments and additions is indicated in order to avoid irregularities and situations of different interpretations of the provisions of the law in practice. These amendments and amendments to the laws propose the inclusion of free zones in the entrepreneurship infrastructure system, reducing the need for the activation of existing entrepreneurship zones within units of local or regional, or regional self-government that requires the donation of entrepreneurship land from 66 so far to 50%, and in order for this donation to be considered justified, law enforcement, as well as the debate at the plenary session when these changes and additions were in the Croatian Parliament at the first reading, indicate that 66% of them were set. Entrepreneurial zones where the activation intensity, i.e. more than or equal to 50%, is proposed by these amendments and additions to the law, are areas that have been brought into service by entrepreneurs and are like such areas for which land donations owned by the Republic of Croatia can be considered economically justified. In the course of the discussion at the Plenary session in the first reading in the work relating to the conduct of the Republic of Croatia unless the donated land is put into operation, we note in particular that each donation contract contains a provision under which the donated land is returned to the Republic of Croatia, unless the unit of local or regional self-government, which is donated to the entrepreneurial zone, does not bring the land to the end within the agreed time limit. The obligation to activate existing entrepreneurship zones within a 20 km radius of the border zone requiring the donation of the land of the Republic of Croatia to establish a new entrepreneurship zone is also lifted in order to consider this donation justified. The applicable law stipulates that this land donation is to be considered eligible for the establishment of a new zone only when there are no existing zones under 66% within a 20km radius of the new business zone. However, law enforcement has highlighted the need to abolish this precondition. Some units of local self-government are active and successful in attracting entrepreneurs into the zone, but this provision of the law was limited by attracting the inactivity of other local self-government units, so by changing that anomaly, we have corrected that deficit. Also related to the provisions of the laws prescribed when donated land owned by the Republic of Croatia as entrepreneurship zones is considered justified, we consider it necessary to clarify that the law prescribes an exemption from the obligation of filled entrepreneurship zones in the cases of donated land owned by the Republic of Croatia for areas authorised for co-financing from EU funds, but provided that the area of land required by donation does not exceed 50% of the activated area at the time of the donation. It also opens up the possibility that the founders of entrepreneurship infrastructure can also be natural persons, not as only legal persons so far. Furthermore, the implementation of the law also points to the need for a more detailed definition of certain concepts of entrepreneurship infrastructure so that these amendments and additions to the law are a more detailed definition of entrepreneurship zone, entrepreneurship support institution, category of entrepreneurship support institutions, new entrepreneurship zone and expansion of the entrepreneurship zone. These amendments and additions to the law also explain in detail the terms of the total available and current area of the entrepreneurship zone, as well as the method of calculating the available surface and activation intensity, i.e. the filling. For the sake of unambiguous use of these terms, we point out that the total area of the entrepreneurial zone is defined by the spatial plan and by the decision to set up, i.e. the founding act and the zone, and includes all land parcels in the scope of the zone that makes up the unique whole. The available area of the zone is the area intended for the business of entrepreneurs, and it is calculated in a way that the total area is taken away from all parcels that are not directly intended for entrepreneurs, e.g. Roads, infrastructure, parking lots and the like. The activation intensity, i.e. the fill-up of the entrepreneurial zone, shall be calculated in such a way as to place an active area in relation to the available area of the entrepreneurial zone. These amendments to the law further discuss the handling of the competent authorities of the state administration in the control of the treatment of donated land for the zones, it is prescribed that the donated land... the purpose of which, if within the agreed period and up to 5 years, the provisions of the grant contract have been met, and the activities of the infrastructure equipment of the entrepreneurship zone have been carried out on the donated land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. So it's about the Ministry of State Property and the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Quality entrepreneurship infrastructure contributes to faster development of entrepreneurship, increased investment and employment and even regional development of the Republic of Croatia, especially since more than 99% of the economic operators are in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are in the largest number and are users of entrepreneurship infrastructure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore proposes the adoption of this law on amendments to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure in order to improve the entrepreneurship environment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85336	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85337	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you have now said in your statement that quality entrepreneurship infrastructure actually contributes to a faster and better development of entrepreneurship. In the first reading here, we were actually discussing the way of staffing, i.e. hiring on entrepreneurial support institutions, and we agreed even, here is a colleague Batinić if I am not mistaken, that we need to solve this, that we need to find a way to end the negative exploitation of entrepreneurial support institutions, or political employment of people who are not, as well as the definition of your law itself, for incubators and accelerators, technology parks says that they have to be employees of people who will provide professional, technical, educational assistance, I want to know in which way we will do so if we do not define this law, even worse, there are absolutely no sublegal acts that would actually jump to this problem that we do not have more and more negative stories, entrepreneurial support institutions that are not really in their purpose to help entrepreneurs, especially begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85338	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Antonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85339	Dear MPs, thank you very much for asking. So I'm going to repeat actually the answer that we already gave at first reading, which is that this law regulates what is an entrepreneurial support institution. These institutions set up units of local self-government, now the new law will make it possible to actually be a natural person. They are independent legal entities, economic operators that determine who they will hire, who they will not hire, and we simply have no influence, this law does not provide for us to influence the staffing of entrepreneurial support institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85340	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85341	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, listening to your colleague as he warns... Ms. Nincevic, since she has extensive experience and results with her entrepreneurship centre in private, the fact that it is very important to what she says, to clarify that there are no employment criteria in these centres, in this entrepreneurial infrastructure, centres, incubators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have an example in Solin, it seems only to me that for pre-election purposes or pre-election time is this entrepreneurial incubator, these employees are the only ones that have done the lambs for their party colleagues and here we are talking about what Ivana Ninčević is talking about the problem of who will be in that entrepreneurial incubator, they will'll be the only one when it's about support for entrepreneurs, the only criteria will be to receive a party card as I cited the problem in Solin, because only enough is a party card and no experience... If I'm not mistaken, colleague Ninčević. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85342	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tully Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, during the debate of the first reading, we have made one proposal to consider through the objectives of the support system for improving business activities in entrepreneurship areas to predict and co-finance infrastructure outside the entrepreneurship zone but for the needs of this area. I see you have not accepted it, otherwise the other remarks that have been made are acceptable, so we will also make an amendment in this sense. So consider once again the infrastructure needed for the entrepreneurial zone but it's out of the zone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85344	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85345	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We are witnessing an improvement in the financial rating and it is the consequence of, of course, a more stable political situation and the functioning of the rule of law. But to come to a range of investment ratings, to make economic zones first and less commercial, to start developing a production economy that has great or greater added value, tell me how much on this plan is trying and doing our business diplomacy, our business intelligence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85346	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Antonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85347	Your Honor, thank you very much for asking. Yes, I agree with you that in any case, as many production activities as possible and in particular products and services with high added value are needed. I can tell you firsthand that one of the top priorities of the new economy, entrepreneurship and crafts is to do everything possible to attract exactly those quality investments and first of all to use it on the entrepreneurial support institutions that are already available and which are equipped for something like that. So that's one of our ministry's top priorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85348	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85349	Thank you very much. Mr. Antonic, 2 years past the government's mandate, please list here a single investment that has hired 200, 300 people, let's see what you've done and what's going on in these entrepreneurial support institutions and, as money is withdrawn, given that it's secure yet, come on, sir, go to Klaric a little closer you can't hear you, I can see that the gentleman whispers, so it'll come a little closer to being clearer. So on that side, I'd like you to show us the results, don't change it, we'll be, we'll withdraw, Mr. Horvat's priority is, look, Mr. Horvat has had priorities in the Karamark government, too, so he split the money for which more people are here just now some projects are being solved and it's been two years since he left the ministry. So don't get into the future, give us some results, unfortunately there's no results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85350	Thank you. Answer. Nothing, thank you. We're going to the clubs. The first will be the club of MOST independent lists on behalf of which the respected representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85351	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, when we talk about the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurial Infrastructure, which in fact defines more precisely what are all categories within the entrepreneurship infrastructure or entrepreneurship support institutions, it is important to note that in fact this law does not define, let alone more precisely, people who will be employed in these entrepreneurship support institutions. Why does it matter? You know, an entrepreneurial support institution doesn't make up four walls, four benches and two chairs. What the secretary of state says that I can't regulate privately, especially now that this law allows both private and physical persons to establish an entrepreneurial support institution, it's true that you can't, but that's why you can't do all those entrepreneurial... institutions established by municipalities, cities, county or state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why is this all important? When we look at the economic growth of an economy with entrepreneurial activities, it's actually the subject of a number of researchers. One conclusion that all these research together has, in fact, is that those countries, those countries that had an increased number of entrepreneurial activities, at the same time had more economic growth. Right in entrepreneurial activities, they actually divided them into multiple criteria, I would say key levels, and one of them is this institutional level, i.e. institutional support institutions. Why did these entrepreneurial support institutions cite as one of the key reasons in the success of entrepreneurial ventures and as I said the link between economic growth itself in countries that had increased entrepreneurial activities is because they actually helped entrepreneurs to realize their entrepreneurial enterprise, but also the removal of all those barriers that were actually unnecessary throughout the process. What's interesting about the numerous research that I've just mentioned is that most of the failures in start-ups actually occurred in those start-ups that bypassed entrepreneurial support institutions, i.e. they started themselves. What is unfortunately happening in Croatia is the other way around. So what happens to us is that people who come to an entrepreneurial support institution fail. Of course, this is not a common case, i.e. in every entrepreneurship-support institute and in the previous presentation, I said that there are positive entrepreneurship support institutions that do excellent work, we should continue to promote them, highlight their media work and encourage them to be better and better because the space to be better is always there. However, we must look back at those negative sides of entrepreneurial support institutions because we here as a legislative body are actually obliged to face the negative side of entrepreneurship support institutions, face their problems and find a solution to these problems. So when we talk about negative entrepreneurial support institutions, then I have to mention probably one of the worst examples in the entire Republic of Croatia, it's an entrepreneurial incubator in Solin, which is exactly this case that I said is the opposite of all these research at the world level where actually start-ups that come into an entrepreneurial support institution, in particular here we're going to mention an incubator in Solin, which was founded by a local self-government unit, actually experiencing failures. Why is that? Because of what I asked you right now in your presentation, to limit or to regulate the way people in entrepreneurial support institutions established by local self-government units are staffed. Namely, in this entrepreneurial incubator in Solin, a person who is employed as a direct incubator, who actually has the first working experience, all the people who are employed in that incubator, it is their first working experience and how to expect from persons who in one entrepreneurial support institution are the first working experience, who had absolutely no other working experience, that we do not say that they had no contact with the real sector or worked in the real sector in a way that they ran their own private company, how to help them realize the entrepreneurial enterprise. How can they be what research throughout the world tells us, that this very institutional level that manifests itself through entrepreneurial support institutions is very important precisely in this first step of an entrepreneurial enterprise. It's just impossible because they, they, they, they will, they can't because they don't know. To make things worse, they've been doing it for five years. So, for five years, they've been getting their salary neatly, and they're doing nothing. I brought their 2016 report to you last time, which actually in the report of the entrepreneurial incubator who handed over to the city council of Solin, says that in 2016 they made 0 projects. So the entrepreneurial ventures that have helped are also 0. It is simply unrealistic to expect from people who have absolutely no entrepreneurial experience, nor are they expert in such things that they have at all results and success in leading an entrepreneurial support institution. What's unfortunate is that these situations are actually seen by the citizens, and they're all seen by those young people who want to run, who want to start something of their own, and they're all looking at the taxpayers as well. So they're paying for people who have been at the helm for 5 years, and they're working in an entrepreneurially supportive institution, absolutely in no segment have contributed to the development of the economy, and that's what research by a number of researchers tells us, that this institutional level is one of the key criteria through all their research that actually helps entrepreneurs beginners and start-ups in these initial steps of establishing their own, realising their entrepreneurial ideas. Speaking of which, here's the incubator, I really need to mention that detail. In fact, between the first and second readings when I also mentioned this incubator in my presentation, there was actually one change that, again, I will emphasize, the tax bonds and the citizens and the young entrepreneurs of beginners who wanted to start and realize their business venture, which is that this is exactly the director of the entrepreneurial incubator who is party employee of this entrepreneurial support institution, who receives a net salary every month far above the average Croatian net salary, which is nothing already here, five years ago, is here, just the other day he received a reward for his dissatisfaction so he was promoted, or he also got the role of a member of the supervisory board of county roads, so here is another fee of 5 thousand kuna per month with this director's salary for which he does absolutely nothing. Yeah, well, since you mentioned your colleague, I was embarrassed to say it, but that's true. In fact, they wrote in their 2016 report as an entrepreneurial incubator, so the entrepreneurial support institution wrote that they organized fireworks and baked lamb. I'm really embarrassed to say it, but it's a fact. So we're talking about entrepreneurial support institutions that bake lambs and organize fireworks. And these are the institutions of people who need to help exactly that economic growth that would connect to the level of entrepreneurial activity in a particular country that had them. I'll just say that even the world's largest research in entrepreneurship... The level of entrepreneurial activity of an economy binds to the level of development of an entrepreneurial environment consisting of social, political. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We ourselves know how often we discuss these things in the assembly, how often these things are, and the subject of media articles, how much we are actually as parliamentary representatives, the executive government is even interested in this political part of the cultural context, which is actually investment in education, social norms and behaviours related to personal independence, the level of democracy of the country as well as perceptions of entrepreneurs. The perception of entrepreneurs could also be discussed, because unfortunately, when we mention an entrepreneur in Croatia, he automatically equalises himself with a criminal and a thief. This is wrong because entrepreneurs are divided into entrepreneurs and party entrepreneurs. Those who are party entrepreneurs, no wonder they are defined in that way. However, those entrepreneurs, who are truly self-absorbed, realize their idea and go into entrepreneurship, are in no way criminals, but are people, who have decided to contribute to the development of the economy, which they have decided, ultimately to fill the budget, from which we all have salaries and who need to be available 24 hours a day, and cannot be called criminals. Also in the level of entrepreneurship of activities, commitment and role of government, efficiency of the financial market, labour market, rule of law, level of investment in research and development, quality and strength of physical infrastructure, management competences, conditions of entrepreneurship, financial resources, for the launch of new entrepreneurship ventures, programmes for the promotion of new business ventures and business opportunities on the market. I just want to say from my experience, since I'm the founder, just an entrepreneurial support institution, the first private in my county, the second in the state, it wasn't easy to establish, at the time, an entrepreneurial support institution, private, because you yourself know it wasn't allowed by this law, until now, until this law. However, the point here is that it was necessary to encourage those private people, who, along with their company and their business path, decided to open up an entrepreneurial support institution, thus contributing to the development of the economy and helping all young entrepreneurs, in fact to those who want to go into the entrepreneurial enterprise, because they actually have the most entrepreneurial experience, and they can help them the most. Just in the Croatian way of implementing all these entrepreneurial infrastructures, there is no such arrangement. We don't have a network network with the rural sector in entrepreneurship support institutions. That's very important. I don't know if you're going to handle it in some sublaw, given that you don't have them, if you're going to be making the rules. It's important that you network them, because that experience that entrepreneurs have, can't be given to them by anyone who's employed in entrepreneurial incubators centers... parks without coming from the real sector. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as this law is concerned, I will propose an amendment that will require that all persons employed in entrepreneurship support institutions, established by the local self-government unit of the regional self-government, which they provide, professional technical and educational assistance, must have adequate expertise, experience which the competent ministry will prescribe by a special regulation, depending on which category of entrepreneurship support innuendos, within the entrepreneurship infrastructure. If you feel that you have a better suggestion on how to fix this problem, a growing number of negative entrepreneurial support institutions, I hope that we will hear it today in your presentation and in the presentation of the ruling ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85352	Thank you very much. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Klaric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85353	... State secretaries, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. [[Specially enabled.]] In my presentations, I will not talk about institutions, incubators or support institutions that bake lambs, nor about party or non-party entrepreneurs. I'm going to try to talk about this law, and I'm going to try to put it simply, which means starting an investment, which means a business zone, which means an entrepreneur, which means a businessman, and every job, and how much effort, investment and knowledge in the realization of all this is necessary. So what we welcome in our first reading and this reading, and what we've been looking for all along, is an amendment to this law, passed 5 years ago, which practically blocked the units of local self-government, in the expansion and development of entrepreneurial zones in its area. Especially for the reasons, which I think is crazy or not aware of, is caused by a decision and regulation in such a law that within 20 kilometers, the areas of entrepreneurial zones are collected, regardless of the layout of the unit of local self-government and that this is the basic criterion for the assignment of the unit of local self-government for the expansion and construction of business zones. From that moment on, and making such a decision and criteria 66% stopped any donations and there have been no such developments in that part for the past 5 years. Even as many units of local self-government changed spatial plans, changed within the scope of business zones, areas owned by the Republic of Croatia, aware that they could not plan for development, because this land could not be obtained. And in any case, I commend and thank the ministry that this 20km criterion has been cast out. Also, the 66% criterion, I also talked about in the first-reading presentation, thanks to the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for accepting our suggestions, reduced that percentage from 66% to 50%. They also installed this bill in a descriptive way what this should mean, those 50% within the area of entrepreneurship zones, not infrastructure spaces, not green areas, not what entrepreneurs have already taken, any of their activities from the preparation of the project itself, but what is needed, within the scope, at that moment. Why we're talking about zones, because it's one of the most important changes within this law, it's being spoken of by the Secretary of State and most of all. Which I do not agree with, and I am sorry that the promoter did not accept our suggestion and our proposal not to account for other business zones in this 50%, in the area of the local self-government unit. Many municipalities and cities, all over Croatia, especially in Varazdin County, have planned business zones within their borders, spatial plans and urban plans that they have developed below Primorko Mountain County. The investor does not know the division or location where he wants to go, he simply wants the square of the land he needs to realize his project. And I personally think that it is immaterial to limit those areas within the local self-government unit in a way that they are summed up because each zone is particularly specific to itself. Here's what I suggest you consider once again this proposal of ours, because in any case, and these kind of sums of surfaces will make this model of land donation as difficult as you suggested. In the event that this bill remains, my proposal, it is my suggestion to all the leaders of the units of local self-government to change their spatial and urban plans if, in the business areas of their units, local self-governments have land owned by the Republic of Croatia, then let it be a green belt, bushes and stones, and let them plan a space that is owned or owned by them, because that is the only way they will be able to realise their investment. When we talk about business zones about any infrastructure or infrastructure in this law or through the debate, there is no mention of what is preceding it, and in these twenty years we have very much experience in the entire EH area. Here's our colleague here from the Parliament of Poličnik with his business zone and 60 business entities in space and business zone of the Varazdin business zone, our down in the Primorje-Gorski County with 170 business entities in just a few years and 4000 jobs are sufficient evidence that units of local self-government in their area can in any way generate economic growth and development. I'm just saying this for a reason because I've been in contact with ministry employees, and about the amendments to this law and when the first law was passed in 2013 I heard an incredible sentence. I'm going to say it here because that's how I think about it means not thinking about the future, so don't think about development. I'm told literally like this, we can't pass law for the Republic of Croatia based on the experience of a few successful ones. And on the basis of which we will pass a quality law if not based on those who are successful, those who have attracted investment, those who have built the infrastructure, those who generate both the budgets and their units of local self-government, regional self-government and the state budget, and then in the ministries, those who speak with these funds can have in a way that they might in some case help build some kind of infrastructure in a business zone. I'm saying this for personal experience, for reasons we face these problems every day. It is not easy enough to get investors, it is not easy for an investor to start building and realising their project within a few months. Each realisation of the project means jobs as well as resources in the state budget. And I'm not saying that units of local self-government are the ones that build all that infrastructure mostly from their own resources and that all of that infrastructure is 25% more expensive because in the VAT system, 25% of all the infrastructure built within the entrepreneurship zones of the local self-government unit are practically funded by the state budget. I think it's due time and that's what you'll need to think about. When we read the proposal here, I may be surprised at one position where it is taken as a special criterion and enters the 50% part of the investment that will be financed by EU funds, so there are somewhat more favourable conditions. What is the difference between the EU funds or the funds provided by it I do not know the town of Rovinj or Labin or my Bacar or any unit of local self-government if the aim of these funds is to build infrastructure, if these funds are designed to build a plateau, bring infrastructure and ultimately attract investors. So the funds were the EU-refundable assets, from the budget of the unit of local self-government to be realised by the project. Since our colleague Maras in his replica has particularly touched us, and regarding the results that have been these few years, we have this example countless times in Croatia, so here is a fellow Lonachr from Polician he can talk about, and by numbers I can tell you the number of companies, and also literally to the number of jobs opened by the name of the company and in my area, and also in the area in my environment. So it's not true that numerous projects have not been implemented. The main and main brakes of the larger were the current law which made it impossible to obtain funds, but among other things, land so that existing capacities could be expanded. Business zones with all incubators with everything that is listed here as an entrepreneurial infrastructure, along with business incubators, entrepreneurial incubators, incubators for new technologies, scientific and technological parks, entrepreneurship zones along with all those mentioned here are holders of their construction operations from the county, the state, physical and legal persons believe that the practice so far has shown that these are mainly local self-government units, that they are mainly leaders of local self-government units with their co-workers with their city councils because they alone planned some economic growth and development in this area, especially for those four years of mandate. Because there is no mayor or mayor in the Republic of Croatia in any municipality or city that does not want to realize in those four years what it has promised its citizens. And the time taken with procedures, bureaucratic coups, with legal provisions blocking decision-making by both the government and the ministry, here are concrete land donations, blocking and implementing these projects in the area of cities and municipalities. Here, I'm really asking you to reconsider this proposal, so this part that relates to the summation of areas within the borders of units of local self-government, smells like the same regulation that circled something like that within 20 kilometers of the circle. The investor wants, I said that in the first reading, I speak and repeat, and now, the investor wants that location, in that location, and he builds it. He's not interested in our regulations, nor in our law whether you can or can't give someone land for the realisation of his project at one or another location. He wants that location if he doesn't get it. He won't wait, we have experience negotiating for investors on a daily basis because the investor is difficult enough to get an investor into the entrepreneurial zone to negotiate with them and 10 and 15, so that he goes into project implementation and you must make sure that you allow him to go into realisation as soon as possible, and in order for him to go into realisation, the local self-government unit under the Law of the municipal economy must enable him to connect to all the municipal infrastructure and now a question that is not regulated by this law is now being raised with his colleague Demetlika, who is also funding the construction of the infrastructure? So all these links, business zones with other infrastructures? Not to mention that the infrastructure of the business zone is much stronger and stronger than that of some ordinary town, unless it is smaller crafts, so there are only fire hoses according to the current regulations were fi 200, now they have to be separate pipelines, and water supply and fire, separate fecal coastal sewerage, and I am not talking about all those other installations that new technologies bring, which all need from the very idea, from the very adoption of the urban plan and acceptance of the City Council session started and started to realize from the design, from the collection of funds for their realisation, from the behaviour of the plateau, and the crown of all that is when the area that the municipalities have built up came up, the investor with his investment regenerating some kind of growth and development, and with the realisation of their projects in terms of their employment and through the construction of their own. Our main goal is to provide young people and our citizens with jobs, to provide them with personal income, to have a decent life and all the other conditions that can be provided to them, and only local self-government units with the ministry, with the government of the Republic of Croatia, with state institutions and with their own companies can then come business incubators and incubators of new technologies and scientific and technological parks and everything that is mentioned here. So for any realisation of any project, it takes a hell of a roll of sleeves. Most of the work can't be seen at all because it's paper, our citizens, and the public, sees only when projects are realized, only when a building is built, but it takes months, so I don't say years to start a single investment. The example in Croatia has countless, successful cities, we write laws, we prepare ourselves, we come up with a strategy of further development based on the experiences of successful ones, because the experiences of successful ones will also generate those less successful to encourage them and with the legal solutions that we will bring here, to allow them to be successful too. It is the only way into successful Croatia, to stay young in this space, to generate budgets and create a better life for all of our citizens. Thank you, I suggest you accept and reconsider this proposal, not to add up the areas of business areas in the space of a unit of local self-government, units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia have some 220 km square like the city of Novi Vinodolski or 126 such as Bakra, and there is plenty of room in that area to create more business zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85354	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue here, in fact, where my colleague Klaric ended up, simply to say limit some kilometre distances to local self-government that maybe they get state land for entrepreneurial zones is wrong. As long as it's a territorial structure, it doesn't make sense that something like that is happening because we can only harm some units of local self-government that want to develop, and as everyone here says, all local self-government units want to develop. What I'd like to mention here is one sentence, and I've said that a few times before is tied to supporting institutions. It would be really good, respecting some of these institutions, such as some development agencies, entrepreneurship centres similar to those that have excellent effects, but it would be good to underline one line, one line and do an analysis of the effects and total costs of these supporting institutions and their efficiency to see, once again, how much these supporting institutions in which part of Croatia, in which a unit of local or regional regional self-government really made some shifts in the development of the entrepreneurial climate, in the development of the economy, in the development of entrepreneurship. It is good to talk here about the donation of state property, it is good that this Law on State Property has been passed that units of local self-government can easily come to ownership, especially for entrepreneurial activities and that they can start to equip them, here again I bind myself to a colleague of Klaric, absolutely that, it is not so easy to equip an entrepreneurial zone, it is not easy to bring entrepreneurs, especially in those parts of the Republic, which are not traffic-bound enough, which are not so attractive. Often, there is a problem, the planning itself and the zone itself, the making of plans, the arrangements and the zone, because you happen to have an entrepreneur who wants a larger area and who wants it in his own way, come up with this big complex. And that's why it needs to be flexible in that part and not too rough with some time, exact deadlines, maltenes to bring the local self-government unit into a position that maybe she has to return such property because she didn't do something. She must have it in reserve, she must have it ready, at any time, when she lobbys, when she looks, when she finds investors, so she can offer him the opportunity to invest. As a club, we will support this law, but as representatives of the Croatian Democratic Party, my colleague Dodig and I, we have given one amendment. We have a situation that the Law on the OPG has been passed, we have the latest situation, that the Minister of Agriculture has become the Vice-President of the Government, who is in charge of the economic sector, which is great, which is why we welcome, because that and agriculture generally gets a better status, so to speak, in this government, in government policy, and that is why we suggest that in Article. 2. behind point 3.1. adds a new point 3.2. which reads as agro-incubators. It means that in addition to the other entrepreneurial opportunities provided, this law regulates the establishment of agro-incubator. We passed the OPG law, the OPG was supposed to organise, without institutional support, the OPG itself will not be organised. And I think that this might be good, to in some way encourage units of local regional self-government to engage with state institutions, with the ministries to launch activities on the establishment of agro-incubator, to organise the OPG and production organisations, and primarily to organise buying-outs, so that in these areas, the agro-incubators are engaged in building and editing and storage spaces and buying-in space. To provide people with such a service and to place these products further. Here I think it is particularly important to establish, to enable the establishment of such institutions, to connect continental and Adriatic Croatia. Because it is precisely the kind of agro-incubators that could be the main drivers and performers of such integration in interconnection, in the south and in the north of Croatia or in the east. And therefore, we propose an amendment to this law. We hope that the promoter will take a good look at it, that we will come into a situation to really add another new incentive, organisation and support in agricultural production to particularly small OPGs, because those large producers will always be able to manage, small producers, without organisation, without support, without help, will never be able to organise themselves and will never be able to perform more strongly on the market. In addition to this amendment and this few points of thought, we hope that the Proposer will accept this amendment and that this law will result in an improvement in the entrepreneurship climate, the opening of new plants, the opening of new jobs, throughout our beautiful, preserving life in every part of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85356	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85357	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. On behalf of the HSS Club, we point out that without raising the entrepreneurial climate, without building entrepreneurship infrastructure, there is no development of the Republic of Croatia, there are no new jobs. And that is why this proposed law, a good tool of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is to create more favourable conditions for the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure, and to contribute to the entrepreneurial climate, so that investors who are interested in investment, in a certain way, are encouraged to invest in the Republic of Croatia, but what we from the HSS are constantly pointing out, that we expect that the investment will also be in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and in Međimurje and in Lica, that is, in all regions of the Republic, we have one even development. The key question is, do we all have an equal chance? At this point, no, because because of the division of the Republic of Croatia, in two, the nuc of two regions, the same conditions for business have an entrepreneur who invests in Zagreb, Varazdin, Rijeka, Split or in Vukovar, Županja or Ilock, the easternmost city in the Republic of Croatia. It's not good and it has to change urgently, it's announced, I don't know, what are the reasons why it doesn't intensify around it. Also, what we keep pointing out is that not all units of local self-government were in the same position as other units of local and regional self-government because they do not all have the same fiscal capacity. In addition to the fact that in the application for ordinary donation of state land for construction, the formation of an entrepreneurial zone should also be built infrastructure in the zone but also to the zone and there is the most common problem because local self-government units did not have enough financial capacity to build access roads, waterways, sewerage, gas and only as many energy problems, trafostations needed, etc., so that the years were lost so that all this would be resolved and some zones were therefore empty or half-empty. And that's not good. And it's good to make one balance sheet to see how much we have a zone, here mentioned in Law 347, somewhere around 47,000 employees in the zones, which still says it was a good step in creating such an entrepreneurial infrastructure through the construction of entrepreneurship zones. However, why some of the others are empty, are not always guilty of only the chiefs of units of local and regional self-government precisely for these reasons that I just said, and surely we must also through this law and through other laws and regulations that we will make sure that we give the opportunity to be jobs and in the Cetina region, and in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and when I say that we did not all have the same chance, here is the best example of the port of Slavonski Brod, which is one of the comparative advantages of development and the entire region not only of Slavonski Brod, while they had to raise credit for their development projects, other ports and other similar institutions received grants from the state budget. Here are examples that show that we haven't all had the same and that we don't all have the same chance in the Republic of Croatia and that this is not good and that such policies have to change. We support this part of the change in the provisions of the law that where there is an interest of entrepreneurs is allowed to form a new zone or extend the zone because this provision that was these 20 km in the environment is not good, the best example is the town of Nova Gradiška which has well designed its zone, which has led a good policy of attracting investments and where it is now in a situation that part of that zone is or is already built or sold particles and because of the interest of entrepreneurs there is a need and a request for an extension of the same zone for another 60 ha. The spacious plan and the town of Nova Gradiška and Brod-Posavina County envisioned the expansion of this area to these particles and here is the appeal to be done as soon as possible because these days the mayor signed new contracts for the sale of particles in the existing zone. And we have an example also again in Brod-Posavina County, the Municipality of Sibinj where the municipalities and entrepreneurs suffered and the problem is that the area which is in an excellent place on the practically entrance to the town of Slavonski Brod, although which has now become more known for this incident that happened with the product and leak of derivatives and water pollution, unfortunately we still have no information as to what is causing and who is guilty, I hope that citizens will get that information and that the responsibility will be sanctioned, and the problem is that this zone in an excellent place had a very large number of interested investors at the beginning, yet today stands empty because it was the subject of the court dispute. Due to conditionality, manipulation of the sale of that land. There was a court dispute, a verdict was annulled and the verdict was re-settled and, meanwhile, suffered by entrepreneurs, some had already given up but one had not. One of them built the facility. And you know state secretaries, and you plan to hire there up to 200 people, and you just fight bureaucracy for years, it's been in the municipality and the Ministry of State Property, Mr. Chepo can't solve the problem, so here's the chance that through this law and through some other activities that the ministry has available to solve, that this area can be put into operation, that this entrepreneur can develop his project and what's most important, that we have jobs or that people who want to work live in and in the Municipality of Sibinj and in Brod-Posavina County and surely that others from Bosnia Posavina who are gravitating there would be happy to settle and live in Slavonia, that's one of the ways, and that's maybe one of the demographic measures to attract labour because we see that in the Republic of Bosnia, that a large number of entrepreneurs are already calling out for the young people, but the key number of the people who are not afraid of 143 have the people who are too. And certainly as long as, through the discharge of entrepreneurs, the reduction of parafiscal burdens does not create even an entrepreneurial climate that an entrepreneur can pay a higher salary to his worker, he will not be able to expect only entrepreneurs to raise wages but must be one joint activity of the government, the resolution ministry, entrepreneurs and trade unions. And in this direction here and yesterday we discussed the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, there is no quality worker in Croatia if there is no quality education, if we don't give a chance to invest more in education and science through the separation from the state budget and to create these children a prerequisite that they have quality schooling because we don't all have the same, some have high-quality cabinets and workshops and other schools don't have it. From that point on, it is part of the entrepreneurship infrastructure because every entrepreneur comes into a zone to see that he would buy a particle, first sees where it is, what kind of traffic connection it is but also sees which educational institutions exist in that city or municipality, what is the profile of workers in enterprises that are in the environment and how many educated and highly educated people there are, and that's important and it certainly doesn't need to be dropped. I'd like to mention one more problem, and now on the first reading on behalf of the club, I'd like to discuss the problem of free zones. 12 of them in the Republic of Croatia, now 11, about 7,000 workers were employed inside, and now because of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, that part of the EU's duty-free business, the benefits they no longer have. There have been discussions and agreements that some transitional models will find that these entrepreneurs are kept in these areas and that these jobs are preserved. I did not get an answer, so here I repeat the question of what is planned and how to preserve these jobs because we also have positive examples within the Đuro Đakovic group, was a free zone in Slavonski Brod where the company... increase capacity and expand the number of jobs, but certainly there are other examples, should be seen from the level of the ministry in which they are helped to achieve it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, regarding the very entrepreneurial infrastructure, it should be mentioned that these 60 million kunas, as invested in the capacity of development agencies, entrepreneurship incubators and the like in the Republic of Croatia, may need to be taken into account in the next period that we all have an equal chance again. Because you have cities that are stronger fiscally, which could employ 20, 50, 100 people in such development agencies and have the capacity to meet their entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers. Unfortunately, some counties have only 5, 6, 10, 15 employees because they no longer have the capacity. Now these regional agencies are developing public institutions. Now we're going to narrow them down to those salaries of civil servants and tenants and we're going to have a problem draining quality personnel that's going to go to private consulting companies. I think there should be a model for how to preserve these capacities and how to help those regional development agencies that worked well because, for example, on one invested kuna in one project, 40 kunas return through projects like one of the better... The agency and I think it will still be a good CTR in Slavonski Brod or Brod-Posavina County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such examples need to be followed, but such examples need to give them a chance to hire more people and to pay those people. Of course, there is also a market for consulting companies, none of which escapes, but we need to preserve these capacities that we have within the regional development agencies because it's already started to drain. And that's where the ministry has to react. And I'm sure you should take care of it through the local action groups. It is the Ministry of Agriculture and the Rural Development Programme, but the establishment of these local action groups is a good incentive for all units of local self-government, all civil society associations and stakeholders of these lies to create development projects, create development of their environment. Almost a year late with the allocation of funds to implement their projects. Such things must not happen and they should see the cooperation models of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy to intertwine, not to be competition between each other. Why am I saying that? At this point, a large number of projects that have not gone through the rural development will now compete on these small funds of local action groups, and were designed to receive funding from the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Agriculture through rural development measures. Unfortunately, a large number of these projects have not gone through now, they will go into competition with these civil society associations and family economies, craftsmen in a contest that carry out lies, and if it had been carried out a year ago, if they had the funds, I believe that this competition would not happen now. Here, where the state and the state administration have slowed down, they're causing a problem. And so, if we want to develop Croatia, and we want to, if we want quality entrepreneurship infrastructure and the entrepreneurship climate, then we have to go from here, and that's what most entrepreneurs say, that we're too far-fetched and the state that we have too many laws, that the laws often don't agree with each other and what's most difficult, that they often change and that they're not all equally implemented on the ground and that we're not all equal to the law. When we solve that first step, then this second one goes to try to develop the entrepreneurial infrastructure and in those environments that are less developed, which have less fiscal capacity, design models for it. I said this project of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem is not enough for these reasons because it is not possible that the entrepreneur from Ilock will be better than the one from Zagreb if he has the same number of points in the competition. It has to be projected from these underdeveloped environments, less developed gains of more points. At this point in the competitions to support the development of crafts and entrepreneurship in the Ministry of Economy is not it, I repeat again that this must change. And a number of other examples where the Government, the Ministry of Resorna, can certainly contribute to that that entrepreneurial climate change and create preconditions for the development of the economy, and I said, there is no development of the economy if we do not think about it in parallel with educational institutions, creating a prerequisite for quality education, the adoption of knowledge and skills as adopted by students in Germany, Austria or Ireland, that they have similar models in Croatia and that we create a prerequisite that the economy can then have a competitive workforce here, and not that we need to look for import quotas or to whine about why people are leaving us. And I said, he's going to leave as long as there's a climate like this, while there's low wages and we're putting a little investment in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85358	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Gordan Maras will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85359	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this Law, it is impossible not to look back on the current situation in the Republic of Croatia and what affects not only our entrepreneurs but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I would say, it does not open up a perspective that the Republic of Croatia should be a better country in the future. We saw yesterday an example of an entrepreneur who, in my opinion, is a bright example in the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Djuro Horvat, who is a Technix company from Međimurje, who has enabled and helped his employees in their life activities, in particular in their responsibilities, and enables them to make their perspective possible in Croatia and on some sides to think about staying here, not leaving because of several hundred euros or thousands, a thousand euros of higher wages in other countries. So this Mr. Entrepreneur and many in Croatia see the problem of investment, of employment, of entrepreneurs in what unfortunately the labour market in the Republic of Croatia is quite burdened, people are leaving and not seeing the perspective, i.e. they are not allowed here, and entrepreneurs and employees, quality employment and jobs. And in that situation, and that is also what I would say is one part of entrepreneurship and the entire infrastructure that the state through its legislation also gives in such a situation, instead of talking about these problems openly and speaking out what is wrong, let's say Mr Horvat has shown something that is wrong with his example. Yesterday, we have a public service at the Open Show where four guests sit, including Mr Horvat and three HDZ people. Minister Pavic, who compares us to Bulgaria, says we are excellent because here from Bulgaria and Romania, more people have evicted as far as high-tech equipment is concerned. We have from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which I call the entrepreneurially interesting HDZ incubator, Mrs. Cagalj, who is also here from the HDZ position, says everything is great and we also have from the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen of Ranogajc, candidate for the mayor of the County of Zagorje, and so they spend an hour on the show with Mr. Leader to say that the government is doing wonders, that these are all great things and that everything works never works better. And we all know that's not the case. Now the question is why do we even have such shows, and who wants to hear it? Here I was, after 2 minutes, shutting down the program because I simply couldn't listen to them arguing there as at the HDZ Internal Forum in Fascism Victims Square, they gathered and talked to each other and talked and clapped on their shoulders and said that it's actually amazing, how entrepreneurship works a lot, how employees have an excellent situation, etc., etc. And my message here today from this pay phone is also to HRT that, I think it's so obvious and that people in the Republic don't see it anymore, so the sense of paying more for that kind of information program where the defacto is passed on to an internal meeting of the HDZ and its Committee on Entrepreneurship and Economy and crafts, that we don't care. Let them say it at an internal meeting, but let them not deceive the public and say it is great in Croatia, because it is not. And as for investment and jobs, it is also evident that it is not because here is Mr. Klaric, because there is a lot of investment here, there is investment, there is something, that we do not have tourism almost not even have them at all. And when we look at foreign investments because we can now compare with the entire EU market in 2016, this is one survey that I saw 6000 foreign investments were in the EU area. In Croatia, 34. when you divide the number of inhabitants in relation to the number of EU, Croatia and the EU, that means 1 in particular 125 when Croatia could be combined in this way, which means that there should be almost twice as much investment in Croatia as it was in order to be on average in the EU. So here we are at the beginning, Mr. Klaric, the EU, showing this data, the single market, instead of 34 foreign investments in 2016, should have been at least 70 to be on average. To be as successful as one Germany, then there should be over a hundred such investments in Croatia. Unfortunately, there were only 34 of them in Croatia and I say once again, if there were no tourism there probably wouldn't be so many. Now the question is, why is that? Can the law amending the Law on Entrepreneurship Infrastructure change anything? Whether they are really trying in the ministry as they say, whether Minister Dalic was more burdened with taking over with a group of people, I would say management in Agrokor and enable these people to make hundreds of millions of kunas, than to deal with creating a more competitive economy in Croatia, that Minister Pavic in cooperation with her ensures that we have better employees. Because one of the main ones, I would say a prerequisite for raising competitiveness and attracting investment and developing entrepreneurship in Croatia is now primarily investing in education and human capital. Because unfortunately, in Croatia, we are hardly investing in this, and it is unlikely that there is a man entrepreneur showing essentially what the state should be doing, because he invests in human capital, he invests in his employees, and the state is almost not doing it at all, except what certain projects are being implemented that were planned at EU level in 2014 when there was no near HDZ government and now it is called on the Croatian Ministers that they have done something. And as I said, unfortunately, they compare us with countries I would not like to compare with, but soon these countries will outrun us and I see that our role model has become in the economy and employment and development of Bulgaria. I'd rather have an example of one of Austria or Germany or some other Scandinavian country. Unfortunately, our prime minister, by his gesture and invitation to the Bulgarian prime minister, shows that Croatia is now becoming a light motif or someone to be seen and I think it is not good, and I think we need to look a little bit at some of which we can, regardless of what Bulgarians appreciate, but from those we can perhaps learn more from. As for the very proposal that I was up against last time is this variant with the donation of the country. I guarantee you here is the motivation of this law is neither attracting new investments nor adapting laws so that European funds and European projects can be realised but that the country can again be shared with HDZ heads, mayors, etc. so there will probably be someone from other parties, but always at a symbolic level one out of ten just to be decorations to say not only did HDZ get. This change that's funny to me as it says can be donated in the area of the local self-government unit if in the area of local self-government is not the use of 50 percent or more, be careful now. And in Croatia we have 500 and some units of local self-government, we have over 400 entrepreneurial zones of which over 200 and something has no entrepreneurs at all, many are not in office, some have received money from the state they have equipped, they have no one and in this whole mess that is now ruling in that segment, we are again opening up the possibility that the state continues to stimulate the opening of some new zones and not filling in those that are already open. So if we have two municipalities, one leaning against each other that practically borders, and within 10 kilometers we have an empty entrepreneurial zone, I don't see why the state would give hectares and hectares of the country because of what the mayor of the neighbouring municipality demanded. It doesn't make any sense, the state shouldn't act on the principle of micro-raise management but at some broader concept level. And it can't be of interest to the mayor of a municipality or a city higher than the state's interest, so that's where we totally perverted the whole logic. I know that many commissioners can't wait to file a new request and then Mr Horvat at the Ministry of Economy and the Office of State Property begin to share the country and then people begin to boast as if they had done something. Who, if they already have an investor, can't buy a direct land from the Office of State Property Management if there's already an interest. So this law was made solely for that. So it has nothing to do with the projects, nothing but to divide the country and to bring into a situation that was five, six years ago when, for the entrepreneurial infrastructure, fifty million kunas were divided during HDZ, which were not justified, and then some of the leaders in the assembly started yelling that Maras had come, so he took the money that wasn't justified after 4.5.6.7 years, as it is strange. So you get money from the state 50 million kuna, you do nothing, and then the state tells you to look, you didn't honor the contract, you didn't invest in your infrastructure, you didn't do this, or you choose to return the money after 4.5 years in the state budget. And then more of me are being attacked here after a few years of talking like Maras prevented investment in their municipalities, etc., etc. That's funny stuff. So as long as the state acts like a drunken billionaire hitting local leaders, tell the powerful how much you want it won't be luck. So Croatia must be a regulated country and respect what is agreed on within the time limits in which it is agreed and the way it should function. And so here's around this law, to be clear, we're going to be as representatives' club, for the first time we've been against it, now we're going to be restrained because I guarantee you, and that's my clear message to the citizens of the Republic, this law is being done to divide the state country, for nothing else, to the municipal chiefs and mayors. As regards the very increase in competitiveness of investments, etc., etc. It won't be anything, because I said as it has been in the past years and 2016 and 2017. Croatia is on twice as low an average of foreign individual investments from the EU, on a double-lower average. And if we didn't have tourism for such investments, we almost wouldn't have. So don't read if there were two or three or five known how long it should be. When we have a hundred individual foreign investment per year in the Republic of Croatia, when five, six thousand jobs are opened that way, then we will be able to say that we are successful. And not if we have a single case in this town or in that city that shows absolutely no rule but the opposite. Instead of a hundred, we now have 30-year-olds, and only in tourism. And that's why for me, this government is completely a failure, and I guarantee that this situation will not change for years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85360	Thank you. Before we continue, let's welcome the students of the primary school "Vjenac" from Osijek. And the next club of MPs is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative of the Goddess Makar will speak. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85361	My colleagues and colleagues. In our first reading, we agreed that we needed one of these laws. And right at first, I can't begin to say that I can't understand how this law was done and how some colleagues present it, in order to share the country with the local leaders of our mayors and the mayors. So is this the land for them? So they need the earth to bring up entrepreneurs to employ people, to develop their own end. So why do they need the land in person? Well, they can't personally dispose of that country, so I'm really surprised by that approach. But well, each of us has his own way of thinking and his own approach. I may be more specific about the law itself because here we have in relation to the first reading of some changes that have been accepted and which I certainly welcome. So we now have a proposal that is accepted, that in the available entrepreneurship zone account is taken from the total area of the road, all types of water, common parking, green area and other areas intended for joint use, as well as land parcels owned or owned by natural persons that are not entrepreneurs and which are not legally defined as having land or pre-contracts and contracts for sale or rental of these parcels. That was a lot of remarks in the first reading, and I really welcome that these remarks were accepted. Then we have an active area of the entrepreneurial zone, they include parcels owned by entrepreneurs and on which the entrepreneur started or will start construction works, regardless of what basis he acquired if he did not own it, if he has it on the basis of the legal basis of the lease contract, the right to build and the like. Also, I am particularly pleased that the proposal concerning the amount of available area activated in entrepreneurship zones within the unit of local self-government, i.e. the area which has applied for land donations owned by the Republic of Croatia for the establishment or expansion of the zone, i.e. that this intensity is now reduced from 66 to 50. We find that an extremely favourable solution. However, we regret that no proposal has been accepted to consider that provision that restricts the expansion of the entrepreneurial zone or restricts the donation of land in the area of the unit of local self-government, which has, or accumulates, the areas of entrepreneurship zones. Perhaps when these entrepreneurship zones were established they were the needs of one, now the needs have changed significantly and now simply the investor is not responding to it because of its activity or because of something else, that area, or that entrepreneurial zone offered by the unit of local self-government. And now there's another place where it would really suit him where he would have rented the whole area, but by collecting these individual parcels or surfaces he doesn't meet the criteria, so I don't know what was the reason that it wasn't going to consider that part yet and accept it, but we have for the draft law finally so now. When we, as a HNS club, discussed in our first reading whether the proposal to be prescribed, what are the minimum conditions or additional skills of knowledge and education that must be met by persons who provide professional and educational assistance in entrepreneurship support institutions. We had really good reasons for that. The situation on the ground is such, and I cited examples of what information and instructions were like when entrepreneurs came for advice. Even so, as indicated, it is in the jurisdiction of the founders of entrepreneurial support institutions and I really hope that they will take care of the expertise because it is in their interest. It is also not accepted our club's proposal that, with the general data required to be supplied, specific data are provided, which is data on surfaces, fills, free areas and the equipment of entrepreneurship zones. The answer is that we have a unique register in which all general data are available and they are publicly available, that there are also specific data, although they are not publicly available, so it would be good if we could get to that data as well. This law represents a shift, however, has not fully solved the complex problem of improving entrepreneurship infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia or created solid foundations for their development. Furthermore, I must stress that this Draft of the Final Bill should take into account the Law on Regional Development, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and the Law on Areas of Specific State Care. We believe that they cannot treat the units of local self-government that are in the first, second, third and fourth groups according to the development index, assisted areas, units with mountain-mounted status as other developed units and provisions of the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure should go in the direction of their easier and faster development. Since those units are in a more difficult position than others, they should at least reduce the restrictions resulting from the provisions of the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure. So it would be good where we have the article 15. The draft final draft law relating to Article 24(5) to be complemented in a way that enables the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia to those from the first to the fourth group of development, assisted areas without restriction, to make the total amount of the available area of all entrepreneurial zones within the unit space more than 50% of the total available area of all entrepreneurial zones in the area of that unit. Also in Article 16 of the draft of that unit, to exempt themselves from the possibility of breaking up a donation contract with them, that is, the part of the period within which the donated land must be brought into service because we know that they are indeed in a difficult position and that through this law should enable them to develop them faster and better. We at the HNS Club will support this law as I have said, we believe it is moving and going in the right direction and we certainly expect it if not in this reading, but we will soon have some new proposal on improving entrepreneurial infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85362	Thank you very much. We will now welcome the students of the “Drage Gervais” elementary school from Brešca, which are upstairs at our gallery. And proceed with an individual debate. [[Applause]] The first one came from a respected representative, Angelko Stricchak. Here you go. Excuse me, colleague Davor Lonachr is first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85363	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Earlier in the introduction, my colleague Klaric expressed a great deal of my opinions. I come from a local self-government unit that so far has two economic zones and is working on a third. What I heard earlier from our colleague Maras when he said that he would not allow another economic zone that is closer than 20km I cannot, and not react and say that the man who led one ministry and who should know what an economic development is, there is absolutely no difference in me in the municipality of Evo 4km is the difference between one zone and another. In those two zones, if I were under the law then, and also under the Marasa directive, then there would be no less than 70 entities in that municipality because by limiting in kilometers, an additional part of the development of new investors who came into the economic zone at the entrance to the city of Zadar would be stopped. However, as far as this proposal is concerned, I think there are shorter improvements in terms of land authorisation and the expansion of economic zones. However, what I must stress is still the difficulty of expropriating land in favour of expanding and developing economic zones, and I believe that this should be simplified in a way where municipalities and cities have spatial plans and defined scopes for the development of economic zones should give it a faster process to manage them and thus speed up the process of developing the economic zone itself, and thus attracting new investments. As for infrastructure and founders of economic zones, counterpart Klaric mentioned earlier, and I don't know yet I haven't seen absolutely anywhere that any county in Croatia has been involved as an organizer of economic zones. It is exclusively in the jurisdiction of municipalities and cities, and can be freely said by individual people who work on these programmes, and they are the holders of these activities when it comes to the development of economic zones, or what counterpart Klaric mentioned earlier, municipal and city councils or earlier in the composition of the headship that he made in his decisions to be able to realise economic areas in the premises of his municipalities. As regards the economic zones for the calculation of the active area area, they cannot agree on this because you cannot detect any investor or investor that he must exclusively enter the zone. And the reasons for this and the factor are very much, among them are the proximity of the larger centre, the proximity of traffic routes, the greater number of professional labour force, the greater number of residents living in the area, tax relief, participation in EU co-financing and the equipment of economic zones. So these are the reasons why we shouldn't limit it to be less than investment. And as for the equipment of economic zones, and I have to give my opinion and say, the state has at least helped me to develop the construction of municipal infrastructure, but what is important without investment in creating conditions for the development of economic zones, and that I have to involve the county and state to a greater extent and from this place I appeal to all of us, because believe me, investors who buy this building land unless the area is equipped simply go away and create additional problems both for the city and for the municipality. As for the strategic interest where it is limited to 50 hectares, I am the points, and the knowledge that you have in the Republic of Croatia smaller economic zones on surfaces, which have excellent results. Therefore, this should not be a condition because 50 hectares is not a small area, 50 hectares should be equipped and 50 hectares are large amounts of equipment for each economic zone in such a way that the costs of the equipment are exclusively in the jurisdiction and large extent of the municipalities and cities, which creates a huge difficulty, so I do not think that these 50 hectares should be any limit. Every zone that brings results to me is the right zone, every area that employs people is very important, no matter what area it's actually about. As for other things that might improve, and these are administrative acts, i.e. administrative procedures in obtaining building permits, I believe that there is a need to simplify things... The construction law because the practice so far has shown that it is one big brake because the investor who wants to invest, he wants to carry it out operationally, quickly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, these difficulties arise from bureaucratic difficulties where permits are waiting and can be said year and more, regardless of what in this case the mayors, the mayors of the municipalities are involved to improve and accelerate this activity because they care, both for the investor and for the municipality, that we have certain revenues as soon as possible and that we can further react or develop from here economic activities, both the zone and other species for the development of the economy. As far as restrictions are concerned, I don't know why to introduce certain restrictions, especially in cities and municipalities, because the fundamental thing is that if you already prepare this land, it is firstly a construction land that requires full preparation until the very beginning, the construction of municipal infrastructure, or designing, etc. and these are the things that are fundamental to bringing investors in because there are no investors who want to come to an unequipped building land unless the unit of the local administration claims to do so together with it... Payments and return to construction... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All assets from land sales can mainly be said with a 100% return to development and construction of municipal infrastructure and this is the basic principle of how economic zones should be developed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So all assets from land sales and municipal contributions by me need to be returned to construction... What I was actually doing at this point when it comes to my unit of local administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, for many years, I have been advocating in the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship and from earlier years to form at national level a commission that will lobby to attract foreign investors to Croatia. I personally went to the countries of the European Union, but I couldn't provide certain data from the state level and I didn't have support, especially from 13 to 15 when I asked investors to come to the economic zones and so once again, if possible, I suggest establishing a commission that will find ways and lobbying to bring foreign investors into the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85364	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused quite a series of replicas. Let's take it in a row. The first is the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85365	An esteemed colleague, as our colleague from the CNS said, anyone who says that land will be assigned to a mayor or mayor in any way embarrassing that institution, but also the institution of this House. No captain or mayor seeks land for himself, nor has it ever been given to him. This is an example of you, with me, in numerous cities in the Republic of Croatia. The land is assigned for a specific purpose, for the development of business zones and is assigned to cities and units of local self-government, therefore, cities and municipalities. You have this example, I have this example, we have countless examples. With me, the state gave 126 thousand square meters of land and only 2 million kuna in cash, but at the same time, look at the data of FINA, 220 business entities had income of 21 billion kuna in 2016. So look at the revenue and turnover of money in the state budget based on that land that was allocated. And that's why I'm saying that, for example, successful ones, laws should be done, and not this way to talk about giving the mayor or the mayor land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85366	Thank you. The answer of a respected colleague of the Lonchars.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85367	Comrade Klaric, it is we who come from such environments and who have recognized what is the fundamental issue of economic development that creates new values and employs people. It's the meaning of all development, especially economic areas. The land that we get in the natural forest is a piece of junk, and so on. which needs to be converted into land for optimal conditions and that's a very basic thing and we're not even mayors, the mayors of municipalities we're some kind of cowboys, sheriffs, etc. but only workers can say, from broom to what our people say, who clean up everything in front of themselves and create new values.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85368	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85369	Thank you very much. Comrade Lonchar, you have actually tried to tell from your own experience what is fact and what is truth. Who can know better than the people of the local self-government units what needs to be developed and how to develop. And who's going to help them if they don't want a country with the land that it is, it's not about agricultural land, in very few cases it's about. So, in such a way, local self-government units come into a situation, especially those that are closer to larger centres to compete to attract an investor. And that was the point when the business zone law was passed and those 200 and so many entrepreneurship zones were established. But let's not forget that the hit before that was a free customs zone. As the EU approached the Republic of Croatia, such free customs zones of gas were to open something new. But even though we're staring at what was before us and using those experiences to do something better tomorrow, they're failed commissioners. Those who have seen, they are successful commissioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85370	Thank you. A fellow Lonchart's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85371	... I call on the government of the Republic of Croatia from '99. In 2000, too, when a programme for the development of economic zones was adopted, the possibility of initiatives for each municipality and the city to be included in the preparation of the space of the planning documentation for the development of economic zones was given. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what some local administration units used, some more, some less. In any case, it was an initiator of how to move into the development of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85372	The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85373	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad to hear as an entrepreneur that such examples as your colleagues, Klaric, are developing entrepreneurship zones, of course I don't know how much support you have for the ministries, the state in all this. I wonder now here's specifically you, how much in your place has your demographics grown, how many jobs have been made lately? The limitation of entrepreneurship zones we believe should not be if there is a need for enlargement, that the state must do it under emergency procedure if possible, if it is not agricultural land, if possible building land, I believe that everyone should be involved, even by my thinking, by listening to you and fellow Klaric should also be able to develop a lecture on how to reach entrepreneurs and how to motivate entrepreneurs to invest in this environment. I thank you for this... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85374	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85375	As regards lobbying and attracting investors in the economic zone, each unit of local administration could contribute to the development and release of certain fees in this case of municipal compensation or municipal contribution in the period back 3, 2 or 5 years, as well. As far as I'm concerned here, you have a little less than 6% of the unemployed, of which 3% will never work, so it stays somewhere at 3%. As for demographic renewal, what Mr. Misic asked me, it is about the arrival of new families in the area of my municipality so that when it comes to demographics, it is not a topic but I will say that the municipality has 3 kindergartens with new requirements for the addition of another one, which further says that the development of the economy has contributed a lot to this work and in these areas, and one and the other, now at this point it is 1600 and some people. So all the active ones who want to get involved and who are working out can actually... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85376	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85377	Thank you. So here's a colleague in your debate you said, every zone that delivers results is actually a good and quality zone. Of course I can agree with that. However, the data we have in the entrepreneurship zones in the Republic of Croatia, and we still have to look at a single overall picture because we are passing laws that apply to the entire Republic of Croatia, I usually congratulate you on your area, Col. Klaric, I could now also boast about the area in the town of Pregrad, the number of areas in the Krapina-Zagorje area. But look, the situation around the area in the Republic of Croatia, we have an estimated 1300. We invested in 590. Of those 590, 260 are inactive. And that's where we invested about half a billion kuna. So the result is actually quite defeating. We've been doing a lot of research, unfortunately we haven't done a market analysis, so if we're looking at the level of all of Croatia, I think it's the ministry's task, and we need to do a lot more work here, and not these individual cases, we should, of course, boast about them, but these are macro data.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85378	Thank you. A fellow potter's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85379	Comrade Marko, I agree with you, it was certainly necessary to make a strategy for the development of economic zones in certain regions. However, I must admit, politics played a role here, which was precisely on actions that had not been implemented, interests that had not been carried out because it was brought into the situation that there were very many economic zones that ultimately did not produce results. However, everything needs to be done to activate these economic zones, to find a way, which is why I said there is a way to figure out how to isolate new investments in the region of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85380	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85381	Thank you very much. My colleague Lončar, you said at one point why this would not be given to municipalities and cities, and I also say why it would not be given, but only if the one that has been used so far is the one that has been taken advantage of, and if it is clearly economic benefit, because it is not what it is said, it is not for us to share but from the state, from the citizens of the Republic and to share the country in this way that has been done so far, it is not okay. And that's not what Gordan Maras said. That's what the State Review said when she did the analysis. So look at the conclusions of the State Audit which says that the country's model and assignment should be reviewed and the way in which it is done in the zones etc., etc., because the State Audit has seen what I have seen, that the state's assets in this work have not been effectively managed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85382	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85383	Comrade Maras, not Bulgarian municipalities and cities in Croatia. This property if it's state-owned, then that property is municipalities and cities so that we can't look at it the way you look at it, while the revision has written it, is a remark, but this applies to the smaller part as far as I know it. Here I'm going to say from Zadar County you have four economic zones in which at this point the filling is somewhere around 40%. which is not a little bit with all the difficulties, the economic crisis that was in 2007 so it can be said by last year. Therefore, it certainly should, but all of this should have been done by the ministry, what my colleague Marko says, and not all of this to the units of the local administration, and ultimately to call that this or that has not been done, however, the effects that have been given and the money that has been spent, and the revenues that have been made by the people working in these economic zones are far, far greater than the state has invested in these economic zones.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85384	Thank you. And the last replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85385	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Loncar, I agree with you that local self-government units cannot and should not be alone in attracting investments. However, I do not agree with you when you say that some new advice should be set up, a new commission because there are institutions of the state that are founded to do so, the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, the Agency for Regional Development, although some agencies and have been abolished because they have not done their job, but let everyone do their job and must give you advice and logistic support and professional support on how to shape the zone, how to attract investors, which the privileges given, which the benefits have in the environment, and unfortunately the agencies do not, and here we have a problem. a Furthermore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia reduces the funding for the work of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. This is what thinking about developing entrepreneurship infrastructure must change, municipalities and cities developing their zones must have the support of government and ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85386	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85387	Comrade Vlaovic, I agree with you to mention various institutions. However, the co-ordination from the state level to the local administration units was not at the common level and this is the result of the ones you mention. When I mentioned this commission a small event while I was in Switzerland where a delegation of Hungary was coming to me from 15 people from national level for lobbying foreign investors in Hungary where it is exclusive and the only reason why they went to Hungary, and not to Croatia it was just an incentive per employee, means monthly incentives per employee. And that's what we need to see, learn and apply in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85388	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85389	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary with an associate. First of all, I would stress that I support the initiative of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts to amend the provisions of the existing law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure, for several reasons, and, above all, to amend the provisions of Article 24. Article 24(3) provides that the donation of land owned by the Republic of Croatia for the construction of a new business zone is justified only where, within a radius of 20 km from the location envisaged for the construction of a new entrepreneurship zone, there is no entrepreneurship zone. As absurd as this is, I will tell you, for example, in Varazdin County, the Municipality of Gornji Kneginec. At the exit of the Zagreb-Goričan highway within 2 kilometers there are 3 units of local self-government, two municipalities are Gornji Kneginec and... and the city of Varazdin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All three literally declared their entrepreneurship zones to each other. Now if the municipality of Gornji Kneginec wants to further develop its zone, it can't because in a circle of not 20, but 2 kilometers there are 2 more zones. When we talk about the beginner's zone, I'd like to point out that it was founded in '97. In the year, it is located on the Varazdin knot on the highway Zagreb Gorica only 30 minutes drive from the capital of Zagreb. It is perfectly communally equipped and extends to 169 hectares. Apart from Croatia, it includes investors from foreign countries, i.e. Italy, Austria, Poland and Norway. So far, the zone has been secured by 65 investors, as few business entities as possible, such as larger lumin Centres, a Jitters factory from the Calzedonia Group. Over a billion kuna has been invested in the zone, and annual exports, from that zone alone, are over 600 million kuna. More than 1,300 people were employed in the zone. The Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in cooperation with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, the Association of Innovators of Croatia and the American Agency for International Development, awarded the first prize in the category of best zone in 2007. In competition, 130 zones from the Republic of Croatia. The Municipality of Gornji Kneginec itself invested in the infrastructure from 2004 to 2013. 31 million kuna and another 7.5 million kuna of state funds. It's a small municipality with only 5,000 inhabitants. According to a state audit that covers all areas in the county, it is the largest investment of the municipality or city in the development of the entrepreneurial zone in the Varazdin County. In the meantime, from 2014 to today, the municipality has invested additional millions of kunas in municipal equipment. In order for new investors to be accepted in the beginner's zone, the municipality still has to cover 200,000 square metres of land. She managed to solve everything except 19,000 square feet of state land. For this reason, back a year, it literally has to reject investors, and the last most likely comes from Italy that is ready to buy 50,000 square metres of land, employ 100 people and guarantee a minimum net wage of 1000 euros. I just think that one of the most obvious examples of this is that we should go into changing and supplementing the law and I simply don't understand who brought these restrictions before. I would, of course, stress that the investor is on the verge of patience and that, not to be threatened, but every week he sends notice to the commissioner that he will most likely give up that investment. I therefore support these amendments and additions to the law. I think they're good, I think they're good, especially when it comes to the area of the Varazdin County that I'm saying several areas that are already partly functional, where the biggest exports are from, and here I must stress that the vast majority of these areas are exactly located in the environments run by HDZ officials, which means they run their municipalities well. Here, in the end, I support the amendments to this law, and I think it's going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85390	We have a replica of the respected representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85391	Thank you. My colleague Stričak, you were talking about three zones, one of these zones I was building which is next to one another Varazdin, Kneginec and Jalžabet, strongly advocated that wherever it is possible to assign this very Croatian land, to the Croatian municipalities that will best be deployed and managed. In 2010, in the Municipality of Jalzabet 140 hectares of land and in five years we employ 1300 people, so in five years of crisis from 2010 to 2015 we hired 1300 new people and we were the last of the last in the county, the last municipality with a GDP of 16%. The municipality of Jalzabet, after receiving state land, built the infrastructure itself, employs 1300 people, is third on export to the county, fourth on number of employees and sixth on gross income. So not that I'm in favour of the municipality being the best in its land area, if you need to increase two, three or five acres certainly you should do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85392	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85393	Thank you very much. So, my colleague Križanić, I think you are now the most famous of the effort, the pain, the knowledge, the ability to bring one land to the point, that is, the entrepreneurial zone. These are days and days of work, literally years of designing, building municipal infrastructure, attracting investors, building halls, training employees to eventually reach the final product and profit. I agree absolutely with you that it's not good that because of one zone the other two step up or which in this case is the right, which is the second, which is the third. And now all three suffer especially if they have state land in their territory. I therefore support once again and stress the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85394	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85395	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Here after these I would say a little subjective and not exactly realistic praises and a statement of the type, you know best how it is in life did something or a municipality and the city it is those who know best to manage. I really wish that were the case. I can now say here that I would be happy that these statements are true that fellow chiefs spoke on behalf of HDZ earlier, but they are being denied by life. Maybe some example is what they say, but most people don't. And when most of them aren't then I can't conclude that it's the right model because if we have 1,300 planned zones of which 450 are realised, and over half of it we have nothing in them at all, how can it be successful? How can someone even say that it's a successful model and that municipalities and cities know exactly what's best? So if they know best, how come they're not all 450 zones in operation? And how is it that these 450 zones aren't at least filled as the gentleman said in Zadar County of Lonchar, with at least 40% but the filling is far less? I'd like to see here, honestly I'd be glad to see that because we can't look from one, two, three municipalities or ten or twenty when we have five hundred and something or almost five hundred, and the zone is four hundred fifty and say that here you see they're successful we've done it well, etc., when the vast majority isn't and when the State Audit says we should take and analyze how it's managed by the state, how it's invested in these areas. So there are certain provisions that have said that there must be production activities mostly in these areas, and quite often they do not. So here's the town hall where my colleague just spoke, a big investment in the mall. So we need to see what we're talking about here. So even if it wasn't for a gentleman's zone in Zadar County, that centre would have been built there and probably more interesting was the location and proximity of Zadar than any proactive activity and activity of it as chief. I don't mean to say that he's done something wrong, but I want to tell you that in a lot of cases, he's not crucial to the municipality or the chief, but he's simply a location position and what people are interested in. Let's say in Bakru Luka and again Rijeka and everything that goes on about it, but when we have Baker and Poličnik, then we have a hundred more of these other ones that have empty zones. So on that side, what I'm appealing to and what I'm asking the Ministry for, and I've asked for it before, and that's why I've proposed that model that's changing now, and it's basically the same, but it says not within 50km but in the community or city area, which doesn't really mean anything, because what de facto will be given to anyone. Yes, they have some municipalities and cities and two, three zones, but in principle it is possible to change it by plan and decision of the city, in the end it can become one zone etc. So these sides are now allowed to assign the country as it has been assigned before, to whom it is wanted and will usually go, believe me, in order for a local chief to imagine. However, it is easy for those who have long, they have already done, have certain plans, but will come another who will try only to form a new zone to show that they have had some result in their community and yet hundreds of millions of kunas worth of land will end up unused, only now will not be unused from the position of the state, but will be unused in these zones as it is. And yet, I'm not saying that, that here, the citizens who listen to us here don't think that the representative Gordan Maras is saying that because he doesn't like HDZ or thinks that they don't do well by default, but that's what I'm saying because it's a state audit, Mr. Ivan Klesic, who is also from HDZ. So, Mr. Klesic, who is from HDZ, is saying this from the state audit position. I can read you a report that says just about all of this like I do, here's to imagine Mr. Klesic instead of me, about the same words. Not in this way give the country, think about how it is not used according to the first idea of purpose for production activities, etc., etc. And now the question is, what makes people suddenly feel affected when I'm actually being audited, so even here are the HDZ people saying the same thing I'm saying here. And we can't, once again I'm going to say, we can't take 1-2 of the examples that are deviating from, unfortunately, practice, which is that the vast majority of the land is not being used right now. Solve you gentlemen from the government and ladies, although after leaving Martina Dalic, one lady is less in the government, solve legal uncertainty, tax obligations, impositions, parafiscal burdens instead of giving us lessons on public television yesterday by HDZs disguised in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and that they say that everything is great in Croatia, and people still don't want these associations that are not, especially the Chamber of Commerce who did nothing good for entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, except that the president of that chamber regularly travels at the delegations of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the man is no longer enough of the presses in his passport as far as a man is headed to the burden of entrepreneurs from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, Argentina, Chile, there we do top jobs there, no. It is crucial that the president of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, a colleague who had great ambition, went with the president of the Republic of Croatia to visit Argentina to become a Samobor representative of the HDZ but settled after Vidosevic there in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. So, no jobs are almost done there, but he travels neatly, so he'll travel every other time that the president's probably going to go no matter if anything's done. He takes 10 with him entrepreneurs who take it as a year as well as some useful journey, and in the end almost nothing happens. So you deal with it, try to eliminate it, try to allow people to work cheaper, try to disburse salaries, try investing in education, like Mr. Horvat Đuro from Međimurje County from... invest in people, stimulate them to stay here, and don't deal with it that it can't be the main topic of whether the state will give or not give to a country or not because that's what I think Croatia has unfortunately remained, and most of all we see it through those who suggest it, the state interventionism, the bad things before '90. when the state decided everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some of them seem to hope that things like that stay forever, I'm against it, and apparently the HDZ that stands for a big break from before the '90s. He loves those elements when the state decided everything. Who's going to get, who's going to be what, who's going to build something, who's going to get it? So that mentality isn't close to me, but obviously here, I tell the legislators of this law it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85396	More replicas. He's the first respected representative of Angel Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85397	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, travels especially in Las Vegas and similar destinations could be talked about, but I volunteered for the replica because I can't believe, colleague Maras, that you literally oppose an investment that would employ 100 people in production where the minimum wage would be 1000 euros. I just can't believe it. So, the Entrepreneur Zone, a concrete example of a square of 169 acres. There are companies from several European countries in it and now we are still rounding 20 hectares of which 2 hectares of all waste on state land consisting of several parcels and simply this Law makes it impossible to round up and bring purpose. And now I don't literally trust my ears to hear well, that you're against an investment that would hire 100 people and have a minimum salary of 1000 euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85398	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85399	And why do you think I'm against it? We haven't heard why you think that, obviously you're wrong. I'm not against it. What difference did they buy land from the municipality or from the state? What's the difference? Why would the state give you, then you sell that land? Why don't an investor buy that land from the state? Crowns, crowns. What's it mean to round up? If you're surrounded by plans, who are you buying from, it's absolutely no big deal, why would they buy land from you? Come on, please, a little bit of seriousness. It's the easiest thing with something that isn't yours, give it to me, so I'll sell it, so anybody can. It's not everyone's, you understand, it's from the citizens, it's not someone's, it's from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so we can't behave 100 acres of the country you've divided that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85400	Thank you for the next replica of the esteemed representative, Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85401	Thank you. My colleague Maras, what you're saying, has nothing to do with life, because that's not true. Nothing you're saying is true, so 3 zones are next to each other, I've established one 140 acres of land we've got. We built the infrastructure ourselves, yes, that's why we need to get land from the state to build the infrastructure ourselves. 1300 people now working in the biggest crisis have come in. Whose ways are these municipalities? Are these our municipalities? Which is why, because the chief won't know, then dispose of that land, and give it to farmers to manage, to sow corn or wheat, if it's not at that moment ready for investment. So, my colleague Vesligai gave me half a billion dollars, so what? What then, she donated half a billion, because there are billions with which we can make up for these people who went to Finland or Germany. He doesn't have any dear friends. 1300 people I've hired in my zone in the last four years in a crisis. Did someone do it, let me see it, in a municipality that has 3700 inhabitants. Who's gonna do it from the state level. It's the chiefs who know best how to manage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85402	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85403	This is a bit of that replica in style... from the hill of the valley, means a little bit about... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A little bit of employment, a little bit of space, a little bit of zones, in the end, all together, you don't get it, because there's not even, probably a minute too little to connect it all together. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if that's the case, if you've hired 1300 people, Mr. Rainer, please, give me a paper to sign to make the gentleman a prime minister. Sir, put the paper away Plenkovic, the gentleman hired 1300 people out of nothing, with him. At your place, so give it a diameter. What are we wasting our time for? Croatia will flourish if man becomes a diameter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85404	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85405	Thank you. Here, I didn't hire anyone, entrepreneurs and businessmen got hired. What you'd like to say is, just for your exposure, colleague Maras, yes, you've seen well, that we've never defined the right purpose, our economic, entrepreneurial zones. We've never been able to control our investments in business zones. Because let's remember, they were getting some and various subsidies and support for the construction of these municipal infrastructures, therefore, yes, because it was promised that certain production investments would come, and unfortunately there were none. You've noticed that the location plays always a very large role. I'm glad that today, with some colleagues here, they'll be allowed to donate state land and that's all right. But I do come from the county, where we don't have state land. So we'll be in a way, right here in a subordinate position. We have to buy this land from private persons etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85406	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vesligaj, I'm sorry you're not in this company Zuckerberg, Gates, Križanić, who employs thousands of people and opens up new jobs, but I'm amazing how you did, and there is no, there are very many zones in Zagorje and very many people are working, and few countries are donated. How's that, that's amazing. So here's the gentlemen here from HDZ speaking, if the state doesn't give the country, it's impossible. And how was that possible in Zagorje? It is here, I would like few people to wonder if everything must be given by the state, whether it can be done without it, or whether we will have to rely on these great entrepreneurs who have launched revolutions, such as that, I said Zuckerberg, Gates and Križanić. I can hardly push myself among that team, but thank God we have one of those in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85408	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85409	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, I agree that history is not very fond of us, i.e., the results ten years ago, it started... Entrepreneurial zones, that's the solution, it just needs to be done, everyone will come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's free them from contributions, etc. But that's not exactly how it turned out. I mean, it's not like that everywhere. Somewhere there was a mountain of zones that had healed, and somewhere there was no squares of free space, so that someone new would move. So what's the difference? I suppose the difference may be in the situation, the population, the economy, but probably the local government itself. But what this law does, I am, I think we can all agree, that the state is the worst master. I can't accept going against the principles of subsidiarity, decentralisation, but that the state will do something. So it better be given not only land, for political zones, but also for the spatial state to be given to units of local self-government, because they will do it better, more effectively with it. And that's actually the main difference where we can talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85410	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85411	What you said, is certainly that, meaning space, population, is the main reason for filling some zones, then there's only flexibility, possibly someone from local self-government, but these first two things if they're not as a prerequisite fulfilled, very rarely any investment happens. And as for who manages, so the state says is a bad master, but it's impossible that if the state is a bad master, it'll be a much better master and some municipality that doesn't have the capacity to manage it at all. So I'm not talking about some cities that have capacities, like the town of Bakar that has, and the budget, and there are employees, there are that, but you have municipalities that have 5 employees, they can't be, they don't have that capacity to do the job as someone else will, so if the state is bad, this is going to be even worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85412	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85413	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I can't be surprised at you, surprised that you're surprised at the people who made some kind of zones and where they hired thousands of people, and there are these examples. Of course there are those who are not but also this when you said that the President went to Argentina, Chule, South America, do you know that there are 10 billionaires in Chile, of the 10 billionaires in Chile there are 4 Croats who employ 30,000 and more workers? That's the way it is in Argentina. Well, of course it has been and should have been long ago, gone down, tried to talk to our people down there, we know when they've gone, we know how rich they are, we know we could invest in this Croatian state, but your wonders that you are now surprised, I don't think these people should actually come, we shouldn't invest, we shouldn't be going there, we should sit here, we should be surprised and tell some truths that have nothing to do with the connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85414	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85415	No one came from Argentina and Chile because the president went there for a visit, and even less is because Luka Burilovic went to visit. So please, we do not yet live in a world where a letter is sent to a dove, and invest, etc. People come, they have all sorts of reasons, these people who are there, so there are investors from those parts, Mr. Luksic is back and family works all the way here. I mean, what are we talking about? What does it have to do with Mrs Kitarovic and I say more, Mr Burilovic, she left because Croatia must have certain relations with those countries, I have no objection here, but believe me, this delegation of the Chamber of Commerce, it's tourism, a little look at what it has, you were when you were in South America, you didn't, here you could go with me now, and then you're a little bit joining the President. That's the problem with spending the money of entrepreneurs through the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85416	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85417	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I see that actually after my presentation, you focused on entrepreneurial zones, which is actually good because entrepreneurial zones have become big problems when we talk about entrepreneurship zones that literally stare empty. What I want to say from my entrepreneurial experience and the management of an entrepreneurial support institution is that what we need to understand is that entrepreneurship zones do not attract investors by building them. So we attract investors with the conditions that these entrepreneurial zones give them as well as the environment in which they are located. Therefore, they need to have fast, efficient and uninterrupted business and have the local self-government administrations available literally 24 hours for everything they need to make their investment real, of course if we want it to happen and hire. I will return to this part or this category of entrepreneurship support institutions related to accelerators, incubators and centres, simply because I see that we have a huge problem that we will only face in a few years as we are now facing these empty entrepreneurship zones, and I simply cannot understand why we refuse to accept the fact of what these entrepreneurial support institutions actually need to serve and what we are actually doing from them, so if a number of researchers at the world level tell us that precisely countries that have had increased entrepreneurial activities, we also have increased economic growth, while precisely these entrepreneurial activities are classified in several categories and the largest actually takes this institutional level, i.e., in this sense, an entrepreneurial support institution, I don't understand how important they really are to create a better entrepreneurial picture but also the development of economic growth. I have to go back to this example of an entrepreneurial support institution that we have in Dalmatia or Solin because it is, I am convinced, the most negative example in the Republic and we only say that because I want to talk about it, we write that it would never happen again because it is really one of the worst examples that they have faced in entrepreneurship support institutions or entrepreneurship infrastructures throughout the country. So, the then mayor who founded the entrepreneurial support institution, the entrepreneurial incubator Solin, at the head of the institution hired a director who is the director of the incubator, who has absolutely no working experience, who has neither the profession nor had any contact with the real sector, let alone run his own company. Such a person should help new entrepreneurs to start their own company and develop their own company. How are we gonna help if he doesn't know what the company is? To make things worse, the other person who's employed in that incubator is the married kuna of the mayor's daughter, who's also the first working experience in life is an entrepreneurial incubator, she should also educate entrepreneurs how to open the company and how to work, it's simply impossible. So the other two people, so everyone who is employed in that incubator, is their first job, and such people in Croatia need to help entrepreneurs start their own company, so it's simply impossible. And they prove that to their reports that teach orderly to the city council at the end of the year, so so far we have a 2016 report that says they've made zero projects and encouraged zero entrepreneurial ventures, which is quite logical because these people don't know it, they don't have the capacity, they don't have the knowledge, they don't have the expertise, and they just can't do it. What is most unfortunate in their report is that they wrote that as an entrepreneurial support institution they organized fireworks and baked lamb. Can you believe what we're facing? An entrepreneurial support institution has organized fireworks and roasted lamb, I'm ashamed to say it, but it's true. These people receive a net salary far higher than Croatia's average net salary. These people run an entrepreneurial support institution for which all the practices in this world and all the researchers say that they are the biggest support for beginners in their beginnings, so the step when they decide to establish something where they need it most, they organize fireworks and roast lamb. To make things worse, people like that are still rewarded, so here they are on a variety of boards, so they get another 5,000 kuna fees for their hard work and for what they don't really know. And that's why I'm asking you to limit this law. Bring some kind of sublegal act if you think it can't be this law, but you have to solve this problem. So we can't let entrepreneurship support institutions entangle people as they come to mind, people with no experience, no knowledge, no profession, so how does someone who's never even worked in the private sector, let alone run their own company, teach others how to do it? Well, that's just impossible. And so I'm asking you to find a way to solve this, we're going to have a huge problem. True, there are also a positive corporate support institution, but trust me, these negative ones with these things that they do are quite a problem. But you know what the worst part is? Which was then the mayor, and today's mayor who performed this whole politically-involved performance with entrepreneurship incubator Solin, as mayor announced the establishment of a business academy. So imagine what that's gonna be? How long are we going to have incarceration here? That's why you need to act legally. You need to stop it. Because I'm sure you, like none of us, want us to have party crushes again at the business academy, we have people who have no idea what the real sector has never done, let alone lead its own, how will they teach someone? What do they want him to say? How? I am the founder of an entrepreneurial support institution that I started with my company, when I saw that there was a huge demand on the market, but there is no offer, because people simply went to these incubators where they didn't get any information, but they were even more lost, they didn't know what to do at all, and for this very reason I opened up an entrepreneurial support institution because no one could help me when I opened my company, and I came, so I had my own work experience from America and all over Europe, and when I came back I couldn't believe that there was no organization that would guide me, which would tell me a few steps what I needed to do. For this very reason, I have established an entrepreneurial support institution, over 300 companies, and the crafts have passed that we have helped in their development. You know how much that is? 300, name, last name and OIB. So there's no problem with which, in every activity, an entrepreneur and a craftsman, we don't really know because we were simply forced to go through with him to find a solution. That's what incubators, centres, are supposed to do, founded by local self-government units. So we don't organize fireworks or organize lamb because that's why we certainly didn't start them, and that's what you as a competent ministry should find ways to regulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85418	Thank you very much. It's got a whole series of replicas on you, too. The first is the respected representative of Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85419	Dear Proposers of this Law, I must say that
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85420	Excuse me, my colleague, you've only recently come to the Parliament. You have to contact your colleague, not your proposings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85421	Yeah, yeah. Most of the time, I wanted to say that the proposer through these amendments to the law did not do well to resolve the public single registry of entrepreneurship infrastructure, which the colleague stated through her presentation. This requires a more detailed solution, in terms of the numbering of all entrepreneurship infrastructures. Not only business zones, but in general what is owned by the city, units of local self-government and county, and it is also necessary to connect it with all state needs, aids, or finally to solve the single register of state aid. To pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85422	Here's something to say about it, dear colleague Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85423	Thank you, colleague Chikotic. As for the JRP, a single register of entrepreneurial infrastructure, I have already pointed out in the first exhibition, in the first reading, that it was not well done. Well, I'll give you an example. I as a foreign investor who wants to come to some portal or website and see what are all the entrepreneurial zones we have in Croatia, first we do not have it in English. So we expect some Chinese, Austrian, Thai to know Croatian, let's start with that. So he can't easily access that portal because we don't have it in English. Secondly, what I imagine should look like, which is that if he decides to invest in Croatia, and he's interested in the entrepreneurial zones that we have, that he can click on that area and look at what the environment is, what are my taxes, what are the squares, what can you expect from the units of local self-government, how effective this unit of local self-government is, how it is assessed by current users and citizens whether it solves their problems quickly or not, these are all the conditions that one investor who wants to invest in Croatia has in one place to decide where to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85424	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85425	I didn't fully understand what you were saying at that tactical level, about those roasted lambs, I'm not sure. So look, we compare ourselves to countries where no point of private ownership has been annulled and what are we talking about? Does the State Office have an audit of how much land is confiscated here? Since '45. Next, where are the project studies for local self-government up there? What about the State Digitalization Office? How can we compare ourselves with normal states when in this chaos, catastrian chaos and unresolved problems with land books. I am the Committee on Presentations and Appeals 80% depends on unresolved property legal relations. It's total chaos in the field. One thing is theory, and the other is practice. Where's your business zone in Benkovec? They don't have land books in Benkovec at all. Where's the business zone? It's a key problem, a lack of information. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85426	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85427	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is true that our property legal relations are unresolved and that they create a huge problem for all investments, but why, then, with investments, i.e. in the entrepreneurial zones that have already been solved, exist, is that here, when I go home from Zagreb to Split in the evening, I see entrepreneurial zones that are shutting down the lighting? They're empty, they're even so expensive to keep up the night light. So we got to the point where we didn't even think about it when we were building entrepreneurship zones, we didn't have any vision, we didn't have a strategy of how much their need really is, and whether we were able to show it to external investors and get them to come here and invest. So it's not an entrepreneurial zone just to infrastructureize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85428	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85429	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, yes, I can agree with you that just by building entrepreneurship zones, which you have stated is absolutely not even the beginning of a solution to the problem, that we have many who have healed where everyone has gone just give us the money, we'll make a zone, everything will be fine, everyone will come. Of course, if that's the only way to think about it, it's the most common thing that hasn't happened. But what we are hearing today in the debate cannot be accepted because the law must be the same for all and that means the successful ones who will use all the benefits of this law that have a full zone, which lacks space and does not wait for the state to call some competitions over 30 different agencies, ministries, DUDI... Audi, like all cars and things not, we've had to look at them in recent years, but give them to those who know. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that we have to and that it's our obligation to encourage those others, and that we have to have some citizens decide to see who's doing good and who's not. We have to leave something to them, too, but I agree that we need to make a maximum framework that will be the most useful, but when you penalize those who know and who can and who will, based on those who don't, I don't think that's the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85430	Thank you. The answer of a respected representative, here she agrees. [[Intruder Ninčević-Lesandric: I agree.]] The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85431	Dear colleagues, you said that the entrepreneurial incubators or centres and you cited the problem that Solin set up, which is the purpose of yourself, or as you said, and I said it in the first replica, that I heard it somewhere serving only that the whole report annually means that they bake lambs when certain gatherings, party gatherings, well and it's a certain deal, but it's really mocking entrepreneurs and you know from your experience that the main demographic measure must be to encourage entrepreneurship, jobs are the basis of development, and here is the key question why wouldn't the legislator come in this law what you're saying and you've given the amendment, why wouldn't you exactly set out the criteria for who should be in that entrepreneurial centre and not only those who will spin the lambs when they come to the highly positioned HDZ in Solin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85432	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85433	Yes, unfortunately. So, what you said was that they were purpose for themselves, which could be seen in their 2016 report, and even more tragically, we've been waiting for the 2017 report for six months because they don't know what to put into it, so there's no fireworks and lamb again. I mean, it's really sad, so take a look at what the entrepreneurial support institutions are doing outside of this country but we have them in Croatia, so look at the tech parks, here you have in Varazdin a technology park that has over 40 incubated, these are companies that employ 15 people. So, you can and can do great work, we just need to find a way to end these that actually take advantage of entrepreneurial support institutions for political entanglement and that either by law or by law, regulate and prevent such negative examples as in Solin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85434	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85435	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, you're in a lot of trouble, I'd say even an emotional debate, open up a series of things that are very important. What absolutely is the fact that any country that wants to move forward must invest in a private initiative and support a private initiative not in a way that strengthens the state but in creating frameworks and conditions. Frameworks and conditions are not only infrastructure that is basic, which you must have but also people. And so this debate of yours that spoke in the context of it is extremely important that and if we have this problem that we regulate it in the law because we have good examples, we have bad examples, but what we do through the legislative frameworks, we have to have some elements, some parameters, for some bad examples really not to develop further because I'm sure that no matter what side of the assembly we sit on, our interest is to develop, to have good people, that entrepreneurs can get good information and this example speaks in the context of really not having basic knowledge, you're going to have a hard time teaching someone to say, if you can't read and write, you can't learn to write.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85436	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85437	My colleague Taritash, I agree, I, I don't know if you listened, in my presentation on behalf of the club, said exactly that the entrepreneurial support institutions do not make up 4 walls, 2 tables and 2 chairs but exactly the opposite, do those people who, as the definition itself says, need to provide professional, technical and educational support to entrepreneurs about their realization of entrepreneurial ideas. How can he give it to them if they don't know? And that's why I keep stressing this negative example, we have positive examples, excellent examples, but we here as a legislative body need to highlight negative examples and legally prevent it from happening anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85438	Thank you. Now, finally, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, 5 minutes will be held by a respected representative, Tomislav Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85439	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this bill and I believe that this debate, unlike many debates of the type of lambs and lambs that are being passed through this House, is very important, very important because it means life for our citizens, means jobs, means staying in these hearths. A question arises from this whole debate that has arisen, what fear of cities and municipalities? What does state property owned by the Republic of Croatia or owned by the Republic of Croatia at the disposal of cities and municipalities? What are cities and municipalities? Where cities and municipalities are and what cities and municipalities are doing with that land where they failed to develop an industrial zone but what they wanted to develop, they simply didn't put this land into operation, that land is still there, not handed over to someone, not given to someone, not abused. It can always be returned to the Republic of Croatia. But where the land was given, where the infrastructure was built, where investors were dragged, there were jobs. And that's where the revenues are generated. Both in the local budget and in the regional budget and in the state budget. And that means development, we can't plan development in one ministry, we have to plan development in the entire Republic of Croatia. Where we can plan it if not in cities and municipalities. Where people live, where people look for jobs. And who's building the infrastructure. Well, he won't be building a secretary of state and a minister of the economy or I don't know who the minister is, the infrastructure of some kind of business zone. They'll build a city or a municipality. And to build it, he needs funds, he needs funds from a municipal contribution, funds from a communal fee, furniture. But building a business zone is not enough, it needs land, it needs smart planning, it needs resources to be re-entered and re-entered to the area in order to build it. And someone here said, there's a shopping mall opening up, and the mall's a job. Because whoever manufactures it has to store it somewhere, what he stored must be processed, prepared, sold somewhere. And I don't see why we're afraid of any kind of activity in that business area. And I don't see any reason why he doesn't accept this bill, which finally eliminates, that unfortunate 20-mile variety circle, that eliminates those 66% of the area's fill, which is the model in which the state is relieved, that the land is meant for the units of local self-government. And again, it's always the same question, when we stop saying that the land is given to some kind of mayor, some kind of mayor, that there's some kind of local sheriff. There are people who have been chosen by our citizens, people who have to do something in this area in four years, because they will never be there again. And people who proved themselves after all, everyone in every city or municipality, no matter what circumstances they live in. The fact is that it may be much simpler for me, near the river, than for someone in Zagorje or worse in Slavonia, near Požega County. But the fact is also, that worse people fight, that people build, that people plan up, every one in their own frames, the opportunities they have at the moment. And I don't see any reason, stories like this, that the land of the state should not be given to units of local self-government. The state is always the worst master with such land. And not to mention our situation, when the state has no idea, I apologize for that expression, which has everything in the area of cities and municipalities. We're already extracting state property, we're investigating what's state, to get to know the Ministry what's theirs, so that those lands can be asked to be given to us, to develop some kind of activity on them. And the key to that is changing this law. And the important point of this whole debate is to finally start talking about the economy, to start talking about jobs, to start talking about investments, and I don't know what kind of trinkets. 'Cause it's nice to talk to the trinkets, 'cause they're written by the media, so it's on the cover. I doubt there'll be any big signs in this law in our media. But this law is something that means that a job will be opened, which will allow the city and the municipality to build and continue to attract investors in their area. And I am convinced that anyone who thinks well-meaningly, when planning to develop this country, can support and freely raise his hand for such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85440	Thank you very much. So I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it, of course, when the conditions are met. We will now cross immediately, in order to do so, before receiving which, i.e., the reception, we will move to the presentation of the position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives and the first to appear independent, on behalf of the Club of Representatives, Independent for Croatia, Honored Representative Željko Glasnović, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85441	Dear colleagues and colleagues. It's a sad day of statehood. After Nenad Stazic's SDP statement, which encourages not only oblivion, the cover-up of historical truth, but perhaps further genocide, not only of the Croatian people, if the increased genocide was increased in '41. Not just after '45. They're other peoples. Hungarians in Bačka, from Slovenia to the Bulgarian border, where the answers are from the media, where the answer is from the ruling party, because they think the same thing. Here, the indictment for Mr. Stazic is being prepared because it proves that Croatia has not yet reached the lowest civilization level, on the issue of rights, the political system. We don't have that tradition yet, it hasn't been built yet, and why is that, the question is known. ... An illustration done, never. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mystere Stazic is a member of the party, which is the legal, material and metal successor of communists, the communist party, who committed the biggest crimes in this part of Europe. There are some people sitting there now, who are walking reason and model for illustration. Not just Mr. Stazic, until he gets rid of it, we don't have a P of reconciliation until some people figure it out. And here we're talking not only about genocide, democracy... Because their model of social democracy is not Scandinavian, it's kidnapping and a bullet to the head. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People come here every day, I'm not going to talk about it now, one day I'm going to read the names that the militia killed in their homes, people who took property, destroyed lives, which they were in prison for 3.4 years just for verbal delinquence. And some of them disguised themselves as Democrats, they reject it, they break that truth, everything is given... proven, but that's not working out here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, let's talk about the referendum. It was a purpose, sabotage to stop this referendum. And yet these former frames, which were, would impose one sense, one party system, uh, now impose the topics of debate. Here's a question about a referendum? What we've been listening to these days from some party could have melted the lie detector. Here's Slovenia, 2 million people need 40,000 signatures, 2% need, 30 days and a few days. Croatia 4.2 million inhabitants, it needs 9% and needs it in 15 days. Here you have Switzerland 90 days for 1% of the referendum was working. You have Hungary, Hungary here, there Orban Government, 120 days to collect 2% of the referendum. That means we haven't reached that civilization level yet, because there are... Communists and their sons and heirs, they prevent catharsis here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't want people on the outside to come back here, these people have a formal right to vote, they don't actually have any right to vote. You only have 340, 50,000 Croats with double citizenship in the EU. I can't go back, nor can I vote. What about Canada? From Argentina to Australia, hundreds of thousands more with double citizenship. These people have between $45 billion, $60 billion in their total monetary power. But these people are afraid of their patriotism, their knowledge, these people are out there. They can brash, create an education system, live outside in countries that have a democratic tradition, not a single-party. You have financial experts, you have hi-tech,... They'd come here, I can't go back. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Three years for citizenship, it came here it came to Croatia 90 years later tens of billions of dollars came here outside the country. I only have a document in two years, '92, '94. Six hundred and sixty million dollars came in just to get the guns. They say they don't pay taxes. Well, they're the biggest business branch in Croatia. Today they cover the deficit in the budget, and in GDP they say they don't pay taxes. Some of them came here, they got double taxed, and some of them came back. What kind of relationship is that? What's the point of voting, and if they get a post-election, against which they were nonstop, party left, right wing, and they can't just vote for 3 MPs, and there's 3 million. The Serb minority with 14% votes has more rights here than all Croats outside the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85442	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the MOST of Independent Lists on behalf of which Ines Strenja-Linić, a respected representative, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85443	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for welcoming all the MPs who are here. And I would like to talk a few words about particularly discriminatory criteria in relation to the treatment of multiple sclerosis patients. So my message is the treatment of multiple sclerosis should not be a lottery because their campaign that has lasted for a year has been named whether the treatment of multiple sclerosis remains a lottery? Patients and roofing their association require the abolition of discriminatory criteria, and today we are representatives of all political parties gone and with them for the global day of multiple sclerosis signed a joint request, along with the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and president of the Union of multiple sclerosis, a request for urgent change of discriminatory criteria to which multiple sclerosis sufferers receive this therapy. So in Croatia today, around 6000 people, in the world of 2 million and 300,000, but in Croatia we do not implement the European Guidelines and do not apply the criteria for being treated in a timely manner. There are still three extremely discriminatory criteria in place, and these are that we don't treat over 55 years, imagine. So a working person, who can work for another 10 years, cannot get treatment today in Croatia if the diagnosis is established after 55 years of life. If we say that today is the disease that women most often suffer from, that it is the disease of which they most often get sick and it is diagnosed from 20 to 30 years, there is one percent, however, about 30% of those who are diagnosed over 40 years, even 50 years old and that person, if this process takes diagnosis and diagnosis, if the person in Croatia can't get the criteria. In Slovenia, it is not like that, nor in Europe. Another discriminatory criterion is that the disease lasts for at least a year. So the results of studies, all studies, were relevant to show that early intervention is crucial in multiple sclerosis because in this way it slows down, so the drugs today do not treat, they slow down progress and disease and its effectiveness has been proven. So by waiting and delaying a year of diagnosis of multiple sclerosis, we are definitely making these patients worse and causing their disability to worsen. And the third discriminatory criterion that they, despite waiting a year, in two years must have been twice worsened. So it just means years and years of waiting for therapy because we need to know that sometimes this deterioration can be mild, sometimes that patient doesn't even get to the doctor, but if he hasn't called, it's not recorded, it's not two worses in a year. And these three criteria, years and waiting and treatment delays definitely make it more difficult for these people, along with therapy, to remain in the world of work and not in any way be taken into a situation that will lead them to wheelchairs and complete disability for life. So we have a positive example in Slovenia. I think they also count on how much this costs the system and I think the system costs a lot less if we start therapy right now and if we don't do age criteria, we start right now, than we think we're going to do something about this delay in treatment. Therefore, in neighbouring Slovenia there are no restrictions on treatment in view of the age of the patient, nor are there criteria such as duration of the disease for at least one year and two treatment worsenings, etc., so the criteria are according only to indications. And for this reason, today, colleague Željko Jovanovic, colleague Ljubica Lukačić and I have given support to the roof alliance of multiple sclerosis associations on their present day of May 30th and sent a request to HZZO to change the criteria. But that's not what we did in the Committee, we also had a thematic session on particularly expensive medicines where we mentioned that especially expensive medicines do not mean patients should not receive a timely medication in time, but we also had a meeting with Croatian neurological society to make the right criteria. Croatian Neurological Society has developed the right criteria, they are directed to HZZO and are now in the process of applying them to abolish these discriminatory criteria. I call once again on everyone in charge to have an understanding because the treatment of these patients should begin immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85444	The next club of MPs is the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Kreso Beljak will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85445	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dearly esteemed few colleagues and rare colleagues, I would like to say on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS something about today. Today is the day that until 15 years ago we all celebrated together as a day of statehood, a beautiful day, a proud day, the day when Croatia was returned to democracy after a long, long decade of one-party system, a day that was revered as the day on which something really was celebrated in Croatia and that it had a Croatian omen or epithet. What we are experiencing today on a day that, in the meantime, is renamed the Day of the Croatian Parliament, this argument between the Croatian institutions, which is the President of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic, this focus on the problems that the president is trying to do in a way that he is really talking about big problems, and this demographic disaster is, these are the problems blocked, and I would say, the unheardly refusal of the President of the Parliament to move towards a joint session of the Office of Presidents and Government of the Republic of Croatia for what reasons, the shame of today, the day on which the HDZ received, respectively, the first multi-party assembly after 1939, a day which should be proud of HDZ, which today turns out to be at the shame of those under quotes, the "state party". What kind of state has been created, and what state is today the best way to speak is the relationship between the president of the HDZ Parliament and the president of the HDZ state. I would ask the president of the state to deepen the topic of the joint session and that certainly the affair that has shaken Croatia to an unheard extent, and I am talking about the Agrokor affair and the hot-mail affair rises to a higher level and that from its position the largest, higher position in Croatia, the President of the Republic requests that this be the first point of the joint session and I would ask Mr Jandrokovic to accept it and continue to discuss where 500 million kuna is missing, and not that it is something that is there, placed more or less from day to day under the rug. That the president insists on continuing the work of the investigative committee or the parliamentary committee on the Agrokor affair, that this topic does not fall under the carpet, that we are not dealing with important things, but at this point, less important because even the demographic disaster, the emigration of the population is a good part of the non-trust of our young citizens in the judiciary, the mistrust of politics, the mistrust of which is precisely because such affairs are not discussed, and then young people want nothing more than to move out of this country, which became a state of darkness after 28 years, especially to all of us who, on that 30 May 1990, looked to another star on the European blue flag today and we hoped to become a European modern state, not a Balkan or Central Asian casaba in which HDZ led us to all its leaders today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85446	The next club is the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85447	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to talk about an affair in the Croatian railway and infrastructure. It's specifically about buying snowflakes. Namely, the leading people of the Croatian Railways and Infrastructures Ivan Kršić, Damir Ćavar, Stjepan Orlović and Predrag Horvat are covering up an affair on the acquisition of a 4 million-euro snowman. Namely, the Croatian Railway and Infrastructure purchased from the company PMT machines by EBRD, which the Croatian Railway and Infrastructure did not ask for. Namely, snow cleaners were ordered with 2 moving machines, and there came much cheaper snow cleaners with only one engine and most importantly, snow cleaners who can't clean snow. They've been parked in one place for 8-9 months now, and they're not put into operation, and they're probably never going to be put in place. This is potentially about the execution of a crime of favoration and bribery, and it is important to note that someone has already filed a criminal complaint against the mentioned persons on the DORH. Regardless of the criminal application, it is undoubtedly the following, which is that Croatian Railway Infrastructure Director Ivan Kršić, with the subsignation of Damir Cavar and Predrag Horvat paid PNT 90% of the credentials, in September 2017 although according to the contract, the condition for the payment of the credentials was to be delivered primarily by snow from the cleaners, and after that, all the necessary documentation. However, the documentation was never delivered, and it wasn't delivered even at this point, when I'm telling you this now. Given the snow-cleaning situation and the lack of documentation, it is clear that these snow-cleaners will never be operational, or that a highly harmful contract has been made, which has damaged the state-owned company for more than 30 million kuna, for which additional interest payments must now be made in this period. The first man of Croatian rail infrastructure, Ivan Krsic, told the media, on 25 February 2018, that snow cleaners are not in the service of snow cleaning, because they are not yet paid or taken over, and that simply does not answer the truth. Afterwards, he said that all will be carried out when the Agency for Transport has approved, on the basis of the documentation prescribed by the contract. On the occasion of the order of snow-cleaners, among other things, there was an cancellation of the order decision, the replacement of the order manager Renate Suša, the removal of the entire project team for the implementation of the competition, the termination of the procurement team, the rejection of all the tenders received, in order to eventually proceed with direct intervention by the director of Krsic himself. So everything continued according to the plan to cover the damage to the contract. Finally, when they found themselves in an awkward situation, when people started talking about it and, as we hear criminal charges raised, Damir Cavor, by order of Ivan Krisc, hired an independent warlock via Stjepan Orlovic, otherwise business related to Mr. Chavro to produce a report that would cover irregularities. Since in snow conditions, gentlemen couldn't start snow-cleaners, even when they were replaced by numerous parts, then they found a solution to report to the public that the machines weren't in operation because they weren't approved. So all of this, the DORH knows, all of this is known by Minister Oleg Butkovic, but until today, no one has done anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85448	Thank you very much. We finished our work today, at 1 o'clock there will be a reception here, and we will continue to work on Wednesday 6.6 at 9.30 and the point will be the first to propose the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Regulation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 343. I wish you once again the best for the day of the Croatian Parliament. Session interrupted at 12.40 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85449	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure, second reading, P.Z. No. 259. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, IDS, PGS and RI, and representatives Goran Dodig and Branko Hrg. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is respected Mario Antonić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go, Secretary of State. The first is the amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85450	The Honorable President, the esteemed Parliamentarians and MPs. The proposed amendment by MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric is not accepted. The reasons are as follows, therefore, the amendment requires that persons employed in entrepreneurial... institutions established by the Republic of Croatia, units of local self-government providing professional, technical and other assistance have adequate expertise and experience, which will be prescribed by the competent ministry by the specific regulation of which the category of the institution is concerned. The applicant rejects the amendment for reasons because the founders of these business zones are an independent legal person and they are responsible for financial business and employment and everything related to it, so it is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85451	The obvious? There is no representative, so we must then vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Then let's now go to Amendment 2 of the IDS, PGS, RI Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85452	The amendment to Article 11. where words are added beyond the wording of the entrepreneurship zones in paragraph 1 above shall also be added outside the entrepreneurship zones for the purposes of those zones. Therefore, the mentioned Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure defines the basic issues of the regulation of the entrepreneurship infrastructure system in the Republic of Croatia, which, within the meaning of this law, makes up the zone, the entrepreneurship support institutions and Article 17 of this law, prescribes the objectives of the system... the improvement of these zones. For this reason, this support system refers to the improvement of that infrastructure within the entrepreneurship zones, so that the abovementioned improvement of infrastructure outside the scope of the entrepreneurship zone regardless of the fact that it is the infrastructure needed for the functioning of that zone is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85453	The obvious? Dear colleague Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85454	Thank you, Mr. President. I also thank the Secretary of State for his reply. However, we have submitted an amendment for the reasons that in a number of cases there are entrepreneurship zones to which the municipal infrastructure is not fully built. The objective and intention of this amendment, given that when we talk about infrastructure, it is about significant investments. The adoption of this amendment would allow co-financing of infrastructure building costs which is very expensive from the construction of gas installation, power grids, road extensions, sewerage and disposal, but would, of course, result in an increase in overall economic activity in the Republic of Croatia and would result in a stronger development of entrepreneurial zones. So kindly ask the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85455	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. So let's go to Amendment number three, that's the amendment of Agents Goran Dodig and Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85456	The amendment to Article 2 in which a new point 3.2 should be added beyond point 3.1, which the amendment proposal should read as agro-incubators support the development of agricultural production in the OPGs through purchase and placement production services, provide room for purchase and storage of products under favourable conditions for OPGs, connects with similar institutions throughout Croatia with a special emphasis on the integration of the continental, Adriatic part of Croatia. The existing point 3.2 becomes point 3.3. The amendment is not accepted by reason, the Law on the promotion of entrepreneurship infrastructure recognises seven categories of entrepreneurship support institutions, some of which have subcategories and are defined according to existing forms of entrepreneurship support institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The existing categories of entrepreneurship support institutions have different roles and tasks, and their primary task is to provide services and meet the requirements of entrepreneurs of different profiles including the OPGs. The existing forms of entrepreneurship support institutions are not in any way prevented from providing services to the OPGs and in accordance with their capabilities and in agreement with their founders to create specific programmes and activities according to the needs of the OPGs. Following that introduction of a specific sub-category of entrepreneurship support institutions for the purposes of the EAGs, it is not justified.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85457	My colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85458	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is clear that for those reasons that you have stated will not be able to accept the amendment, but I would ask that, in the future period of that category of entrepreneurial infrastructure, we are expanding because at the time when this Law on Categoryes was passed, we have not yet had the Law on OPGs, we have not considered and discussed it yet. I believe that absolutely everything should be done to create institutions that will gather the OPGs that will organise production, which will place that production with the OPG and I think that agro-incubators in this kind of entrepreneurial infrastructure are exactly the places where local self-government participates, but with the support of the state. I'm giving up the amendment for the reasons you stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-30-0.u85459	Then we won't even vote, the amendment withdraws. So we're going to vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Entrepreneurship Infrastructure. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 78 for, 28 abstentions and 6 votes against the passed Law on the improvement of entrepreneurship infrastructure. The second is the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
