ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91018	... MPs. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] So we have a joint discussion on three laws, a proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, a Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families and a Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. The 2003 Law on the Croatian Defence Fund suffered two very extensive amendments and additions in 2004 and 2008. Despite the changes and additions, many difficulties have been observed in the application of the applicable Law. The analysis of the existing situation found that interventions in the existing legislative framework are needed to address issues, i.e. legislatively address problems that have been reported in practice regarding the allocation of shares, investment and distribution of assets, and other problems which have not been solved by the applicable Law. In view of the scope of the amendments and the current Law, it was necessary to approach the adoption of a new Law which would be developed by certain institutes in order to improve the implementation of legislative solutions, or the shortcomings observed by a series of analyses of the existing situation, to remove new solutions. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and the members of their families we propose: the constitutional changes of the Fund's Management Board, which aims to achieve a better performance of its duties and which includes a wider range of representatives of state institutions on the Fund's board of directors, which means, now they are proposed, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Property. Extending the competence of the Fund’s Management Board and establishing better cooperation between the Fund’s Management Board and the Company’s assets. In addition to the current requirements, it is prescribed that the Fund’s Management Board also makes a decision on criteria for the selection of society as well as a decision on the selection of society, approves the strategy for the availability of the company’s assets, ensures transparency and the public work of the Fund, convenes meetings of the Management Board at least once a month, where appropriate and more frequently, to discuss the monthly reports of the company. In addition, there is an emphasis on how to act on decisions approved by the Management Board by the Fund Management Company of the Contracts and Agreements concluded by the Company for the Account of the Fund, which will elaborate in detail on the Statute of the Fund governing the relations of the Fund’s Management Board and the Fund’s management company. This is due to the fact that decisions taken on a daily basis and which, without timely consent, have negative consequences for the operations of the Fund if they are not made without a timely agreement. More detailed arrangements will consist of the Fund's assets and the conditions to be met. The larger share of net realised profits from investments will be allocated to finance social and humanitarian measures to improve the socio-economic position of Croatian defenders and members of their families, instead of the former 1/3, will go to one half of the foundation, or to the future foundation, which will take care of the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders. A solution to the long-standing inheritance problem, and the outstanding dividends that constitute a liability to the burden on the Fund. The outstanding dividend at the end of 2017 was 111 million kuna. The proposal is that the dividend not raised by the Fund member in the current year by 31 December be converted into its corresponding share in the Fund. In this way, the assets will remain in the Fund, only in another form or will increase the share of the Fund member. We want to achieve an increase in the Fund's profits, and thus improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Part of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families stands out for the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders who have so far been awarded the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders, and for the award of assistance to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their family members through the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family. The analysis of the existing situation found that the number of applicants for scholarships each school year or academic year is no longer economical, the existence of two legal persons partly financed from the same source, and are engaged in similar activities, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their family members. Since the school year 2010/2011, when a total of 10,000 scholarships are granted, a constant drop in the number of applications submitted and approved is recorded. For the school or academic year 2017/2018 of 4529 applications 3817 grants were granted, representing a reduction of almost two-thirds compared to the academic year 2010/2011. A similar tendency to reduce the number of approved financial assistance is also present at the Croatian Defence Foundation from the Homeland War and members of their families. Since 2010, when a total of 4533 financial assistance has been granted, we note the decline in the number of approved financial support in 2017 was granted half as much as around 2076 financial support. In view of the constant decline of the submitted and approved applications in the fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War as well as in the Foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, members of their families and bearing in mind that both legal persons are essentially engaged in social and humanitarian measures to improve... Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was concluded that it would be effective for the scholarship fund to stop working and to transfer its activities to the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Namely, the Foundation has a wider part of the Scholarship Fund, which deals exclusively with the scholarship of users and actively operates once a year when it conducts the tender and award of scholarships, while continuing to provide cash for its action that could be spent more meaningfully. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Law on the termination of the Law on a fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War we propose. To extend the financial purpose in such a way as to achieve and provide financial support for the education of persons referred to in Article 124. Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and under the conditions set out in the same article of the law. Provisions of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families who prescribe the funding of the foundation to comply with the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. Instead of one-third of the net, they will now receive for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their family members for one half of the benefits. Termination of the Act on a scholarship fund or termination of the Fund for Scholarships. That the offices of the Fund for the scholarship, equipment, writing and other documentation, means of work, financial resources and the rights and obligations of the Fund for the scholarship as well as the employees found in the undertaken jobs are taken over by the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The new legislative solutions intend to achieve the establishment of a more economical and efficient system of education support. Rationalisation of the institutional and legislative framework that regulates social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and members of their families. I propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Bill on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families and the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91019	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague of Shucker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91020	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm sorry that you haven't given certain financial indicators. So it's the original idea that the Croatian Defence Fund should look like it stopped somewhere a third time after it included 7% of the INA shares and some smaller companies, followed by HEP, and especially at the time the government decided to sell Croatia's insurance, then regardless of what the law says or whatever, it should simply give 7% of Croatia's shares of insurance because this fund was designed primarily with, one to say the social human aspect to help those defenders who are in a difficult situation and also that children of Croatian defenders who do not have adequate conditions and have knowledge, have the ability to study, have that quality to get the means to study and study. Unfortunately, we stopped a third time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91021	Thank you. Would you like to answer? No, I don't. Well, then I'd like to ask the representatives of the board if they'd like to take your word for it? Comrade Djakic, on behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91022	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here is a colleague and colleagues, before us a report from the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, which was discussed at its 11th session held on 4 July 2018 by the three proposals of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defenders, and the amendment and the Law on the Fund which shuts down and puts the Foundation into office, so that its purpose remains for the benefit of Croatian defenders. The Committee held the hearing as the home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 91. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that this debate be held together at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in view of all three legislative proposals concerning the same matter and their changes and are complemented in the same matter. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative concluded on the need for comprehensive intervention in the legislative framework governing the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families in order to ensure transparent and efficient business. The analysis also identified the need to ensure that more resources are invested in social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families, which means that there is a need to change the way in which the realised net profits have been distributed so far, to which one third of the net profits have been allocated and now one half of the net profits are proposed. The draft law extends the circle of representatives of state institutions in the Management Board of the Funds, determines cases for the resolution of members of the Management Board and before the end of the Fund Management Board, determines cases for the resolution of members of the Management Board and before the end of the term of office, the mandatory meeting of the Management Board during a certain period of time, extends the competence of the Management Board of the Fund for Investments and the management of the assets of the Fund. And it also regulates the way of selling the share of fund members. The proposed law will establish better co-operation of the trust management board with the fund management company and address the problem of outstanding dividends from previous years, which is a commitment or burden on the fund. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the National War Foundation and members of their families are extended to extend the treasured purpose, so that financial support for the education of Croatian defenders and members of their families, or persons referred to in Article 124, is passed to them by means of the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Foundation of the Homeland War and by members of their families. The law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families is harmonised by the Foundation Act with the proposal of a new law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. A more effective system of granting financial support is also established. The number of applicants for scholarships is reduced from year to year, and the unnecessary existence of two legal entities dealing with social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders is financed from the same source. This act therefore proposes to suspend the operation of the scholarship fund and the transition of the scholarship fund to the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. This will establish a more economical system of granting support for education, or, rationalised... and a legislative framework governing social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the debate, the members of the board reiterated the need to increase the assets of the fund, transfer part of shares of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, as otherwise the existence and functionality of the fund is at stake. They supported the proposals prescribed by the law, in particular with regard to the conversion of unpaid, or to the outstanding dividends of the share of the fund, thereby fertilising and putting the funds into operation. I would like to stress that the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their family are taking over the work of the fund, for a scholarship for the reason that they have permanent employees, who will carry out more up-to-date and quality tasks for the award of scholarships to Croatian defenders and their children. The board members agreed on the need for a more economic system by shutting down the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders and taking over their jobs by the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. After the debate was held, the committee unanimously with 9 votes in favour, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to draw the following conclusions, that the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, the draft law on amendments and additions to the laws on the foundations of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the proposal of the Law on the termination of the law on the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, is adopted. All objections and proposals and opinions will be submitted to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91023	Thank you. I'm opening a debate now, we're going to have a club debate, since three points are united, and I suggest that on behalf of the club we can speak for 20 minutes, so I hope you agree. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and esteemed counterpart Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91024	Thank you very much, dear secretary, with your associate, colleague and colleague. Today we have three laws ahead of us. The fact that the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families that these changes of the law will be strengthened or this fund of Croatian defenders of their families will be shut down. If there are no new stakes, it is a fact, because we are here at the wall, we can philosophize everything else, but the fact is, it is such a condition that it is likely that this other option will be before, if the Croatian government, the government does not strengthen this fund from that law in 2010 where it has said that 7% can be paid. And here must be a clear government policy, whether it's to shut down this fund or to strengthen this fund by paying 7% of the shares in this fund, it means you share. In this law you can see right away in the bill, in an explanation, that one of the main problems is the existence of the fund, it is viewed primarily in the disorderly meeting of the members of the board of directors of the fund. And the fund's board of directors, to be clear, appoints a minister, at the government's proposal. So, only this government admits, that all of these so far, means government, not only current, but all governments that have not managed this fund well. Here we have nothing to spread, and here we have the Law on the scholarship of Croatian defenders and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, to shut down this fund, and now to fuzz with the fund, the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Why? Because there is no payment on the part of this Croatian defence fund and there is no money. And now it's trying to rationalize it, but the fact that this is now a turning point and a decision needs to be made. We have about 920 million kuna, currently in the Croatian defenders' fund, of which these social problems of Croatian defenders and this humanitarian part of the work of these foundations should be financed. However, it is a devastating fact, when we say that it was not working well, that there were no boards of directors, the administrative bodies appointed by the Croatian government on a proposal from the minister, it should also mean public speaking and saying why it was done. I would once again say very important things, yes. 28. says that, in terms of part of the property, they form shares, i.e. shares of companies and cash amounts reserved for Croatian defenders and members of their family from the privatisation of legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that many companies are privatized without this legal possibility being used and not paid into this fund. So the Croatian authorities did not show interest in respecting this law and it is very important that the difference can and the sea. So we have in our 2010 amendments to the law. ... It can pay 7% of the stakes from the privatisation of public companies, and the difference is because it has to, it can mean, what can it mean? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that was the government's goodwill and we weren't clear there, we went right away to shut down this fund for Croatian defenders, which is why I don't know, as well as Croatia's insurance, funds that are not also paid, fund costs are huge fund management. So the fall, we don't get, how to share dividends, of course you're thinking about dividends, but the HT shares are falling, and the majority of those shares are inside the fund. They were last year. I mean, six pounds of profit and, of course, there's no more funds, and really, this is the time of the turning point. Will the Croatian government be the one to say that they will pay the stakes, i.e. that there will be a share in this fund in future privatisations or not. We have ministries and state property. So we're either there's a turning point or we're going to shut down this Croatian defense fund and their families or we're going to strengthen it. Because this is how one big fog stays. We're 40. It's about a fund that can win and lend. How to lend, when the assets of the fund are not to be reduced, it is unclear how it will be done in art. 40th unclear, from which to borrow and whom to give, by which criteria and by which purposes. In order to allow the terms of the breakthrough mentioned in this article, whether the lending will be used to pay the pension difference and how it will be missing in the budget, as suspected to have previously been done. So here there should be clearer criteria and loans of these 5%, I mean, we need to be clear here, this legally, this is the first reading, until the second reading, you have to define the distinguished secretaries with the government, whether the government is ready, to fight for survival, and that's the only way we have new incomes in the fund, new shares, or we're going to start shutting down. That's true. We can't talk about this fund any more. Here it is very important, this humanitarian purpose and social towards the Croatian defenceists of the components, who are increasingly at risk for certain structures of Croatian defenders, are in a number of problems and I believe that this definition is most important to define, whether the government is to survive this fund, shut down Croatian defenders or is for empowerment. And that's the question of all the questions. We see here this huge problem, a big problem, that we in Croatia have more than 1200 associations from the Homeland War, and that four Croatian defenders are determined from all these associations to the board of directors of the fund. In which way it is determined, which is why the 1200 fund. So the minister has autonomous, has this discretionary right, to make a proposal to the government, the government decides, however, should already, if appointed, then the administrative body should work in the interest of the fund. The fact is that for years one important thing has been mentioned, but when our representatives come here, when ours cooperate with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is where the President of the Republic of Serbia comes, that much more intensively we should discuss war damage. The war damage that Serbia did in the Homeland War, we see that recently there was also Serbian President Vukic, we see that our delegation, which did not go very well into Serbia, was parliamentary. It is time to deal with war damage, Croatia has suffered huge damages, Croatia has to be derailed, there is about 40 billion euros in damages and it should be done, Croatia has had a defensive war, there has been aggression from the Republic of Serbia to Croatia, together with the Chetniks and then the JNA, and I believe that it should be done by the Croatian government, and here you secretaries also, that we should give the emphasis in Croatia to the government and our diplomacy, that this problem should be addressed and that these 40 billion euros of damage to the war, which has done the Serbian Chetnic Army in the Republic of Croatia, should finally be charged and that we also solve this problem of compensation of 2/3 of Croatia occupied from Dubrovnik to Vukovar, and thus this fund could be partly strengthened. When we talk about privatisation, then tragically, here it is, today, we see that many companies that have failed, which were once owned by state-owned, by constructors and many companies, now I see, I read today, that numerous defenders who work, among other things, are working class, e.g. that they did not receive the workers of the constructor's salary, but they were taxed and are now being charged, that they are obliged to pay taxes, and did not receive the salary for 2017, 2012 means the entire system towards Croatian defenders is an unfair and working class that has remained operational, and this is visible in all these privatisations. The most painful thing is here, while the companies were privatised, that the true Croatian defenders were being persecuted, that the Homeland War was being sanctioned, that the truth was not being told about the Homeland War and the Croatian soldier and that the robbery in privatisation essentially led to this situation where the entire society was in place and not just this Croatian defence fund. A closed, distinguished secretary, fellow parliamentary representatives, all those who ran the fund, brought it to the wall. At this point in time this law is going to be a simple fog, this law is essentially a story that we have 3 legal changes, if we don't define, are we to strengthen this fund, with new stakes or will we have to shut down this fund? As governments refer to this Croatian defence fund, I'm afraid this variant of the other one is much closer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91025	The second Advocacy Club is that HDZ. Dear colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91026	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports the amendments and additions of the Law, all three laws that are before us in a united debate, and is the first proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. And as you heard, the War Veterans Committee has unanimously agreed on these amendments to the law that will go to the benefit of Croatian defenders. Of course, the HDZ Club also supports such changes and additions. What to say about the Croatian Defence Fund which has insisted throughout this period and which has achieved, for example, the Fund for the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders and themselves Croatian defenders has achieved 85 thousand and 890 scholarships, and the foundation was assisted by 26411 Croatian defenders i.e. the families of Croatian defenders. These are the things the Fund has done over the past few years, and they are praiseworthy. The time has come for certain activities to be taken. As you can see in this proposal of the Law on the Fund of Croatian Defences and Analysis, it has been achieved to ensure its transparency and efficient business, and to remove the problems or legislatively addressed situations that have been reported in practice and related to the allocation of shares, investments and distribution of assets, and other situations which have not been resolved or defined by the applicable law. The problem was diverse and it had to be numbered, defined through this Law, so that it clearly counted all the old ones that needed to function differently. I'm just gonna count the headlines so I don't owe it. All the terms which have given the general criteria in the Law, the way in which the new assets are allocated and distributed, the share without successors, acquisition and transfer of the rights over the shares, the availability of the shares, so that in Chapter III of the Fund's activity and the Fund's board of directors, it is clear that they are acts and that they are the tasks of members of the Management Board and of the Fund and of their members made up of the Board of Directors, which extends them to 9 members and Croatian defenders are also represented by 4 representatives who appoint or propose the Associations of Ministers, but according to a record which defines what associations are functioning and how they should actually be. Therefore, representatives of Croatian defenders in the Fund will be represented by those proposed by the Minister to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and association of defenders from the Homeland War who are in favour of direct cooperation with the Ministry which are defined by the Rules on keeping records of Associations from the Homeland War and the cooperation and support of associations from the Homeland War. It's really a membership and their representative being in that fund. The management company of the Fund shall cultivate the fundamental definitions of that society. The company’s business, business principles, records, data exchanges, company selection and contractual relations, the ban on the availability of the Fund’s assets for the benefit of the company, the transfer of the company’s power, the company’s responsibility, the company’s management fees, the company’s accounting and the compensation here, I must stress that the maximum amount of the management fee is up to 0.5% per annum, and the basis for calculating the compensation constitutes the total assets of the Fund. The accounting of the depositary company, the underlying provisions of depositarys, so that through this Act, all the terms are clearly defined and the business and liability of depositors, the structure of the assets, the assets of the Fund, which makes it, the principles and the investment strategy, are all now defined by this new Act and because many articles have been changed and changed as well as the structure of the distribution of assets from dividends, it must be clearly passed a new law which through its articles clearly defined what is the limitation of assets, the limitation of assets, which is the obligation, which is the amount of the loan, to which is the amount, all of these are the definitions which are through this Act defined financial derivatives, assets of the fund as the subject of the pledges, which can, in fact, cannot be defined and how, for which the confirmations will be made by means of the property, which is necessary to obtaining the property, which is necessary by means of the law, which is to obtaining the transparency, and the provision of the law, which is necessary to obtaining the necessary to obtaining the necessary to obtaining the information and the information. Here, these are all definitions that have been numbered and clearly defined through this Act, complemented and amended, winding down, reshaping of the Fund, transitional and final provisions. So here, in this we have a whole set of changes that will benefit Croatian defenders. And what I'm trying to say is to move the fund's transformation into a closed-type fund or another legal person. This Law establishes the Fund as an open investment fund which primarily characterises the stability of the structure of members or holders of shares, stability of the value of shares, excluding taxation. profit tax. The closed type of the Fund, on the other hand, represents a more risky way of doing business and, in practice, conversion from open to closed type is not common. Namely, the closed type of the Fund brings a number of additional costs, profit tax, etc., and legal requirements and additional obligations as well as heavy and non-refundable trading of shares... on the stock market which has the result of the decoupling of existing stakes, members of the defence population in the fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The free trading of shares in the stock exchange changes the ownership structure of the fund members and hence the requirements of the fund, the members of the trust management board, etc. which does not all follow the original purpose for which the fund was established. In this regard and given the concept of this law, which follows its provisions the exclusive arrangement of an open investment fund, the provision of different forms of funds by this law would have no meaning since, in such a case, intervention in the material provisions of this law would be necessary in order to allow for the transformation. I emphasized this because many times there are calculations about what kind of fund it has to be and why it has to be, I think this is a good solution and that it should stay that way. The competence of the Trust Management Board, which is wider than that under the applicable regulations, is prescribed in addition to the required obligations, by the Management Board of the Fund shall also adopt the rules on the procedures and criteria for the selection of a society as well as the decision on the choice of a society, approve the strategy for the availability of the assets proposed by the Company, ensure transparency and the public the work of the Fund shall convene meetings of the Management Board at least once a month, where appropriate and more frequently and discuss the monthly reports of the Society. In addition, it was also stressed that there was an up-to-date approach to decisions approving the management board to the fund management company contracts and agreements concluded by the company for the account of the fund, which will be elaborated in detail by the statute of the fund, which determines the relationship between the trust and the fund management company. This is due to the fact that decisions taken even on a daily basis and which, without the implementation of the consent, have negative consequences for the operation of the fund, if not implemented. Furthermore, this article is prescribed that the Fund's Management Board proposes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make decisions on the criteria for the allocation of shares in the Fund as amendments and additions. It is still important to stress in the amendments to this law that the method of taxation and distribution of profits is prescribed, and a new way of distribution of net profits and investments, the amount of net profits realised from investments will be distributed to fund members according to the size of their shares up to 1/4 net profits from the investment of the fund. Instead of being so far, up to 1/3 net profit from investment of a newspaper fund compared to the current regulation is also an increase in the work from 1/3 to half the realised net profit from investments that will be intended for developmental social humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and their family members. And especially for the foundation of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and the veteran centre, 1/4 net gain from investment instead of the current 1/3 net gain in investment will be reinvested into the fund. There's a more detailed explanation of all this stuff in the article of the law. This would be about the law on termination of validity, it is clear in the fund law why it ceases to be valid and it has a good course, so we conclude that it would be effective for the scholarship fund to stop acting and its activities to be transferred into the foundation framework. Namely, the foundation has a wider part of the scholarship fund that deals exclusively with scholarships, and once a year they met and decided on which scholarships will be granted and who meets certain conditions, so I think it is clear to everyone why this foundation, purpose, is expanding, and the scholarship fund is shutting down. In the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, it is clearly defined in 4 articles or 5 articles, which is what is happening. So the board of directors of a member's foundation on a proposal from the Minister of Science, it expands, means for science to also follow these scholarships from a scientific aspect, meaning science and education will give another member to the board of directors. This is also about the Foundation of Croatian Defences, where they comply with the provisions of the Fund Act, and this profit that is distributed is increasing to 1/2, and I think that the functioning of the foundation itself, in which the function and the scholarship fund are added, will work well in the united further business, and I think that the Law on the termination of the fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, as well as the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences, are interlinked or the provisions of one are bound to the provisions of the other and the date of entry into force will be published in the National Journal. So it is not the fund that is shut down so that it is no longer a scholarship, but the foundation takes over its role and will work unitedly on the further well-being of Croatian defenders. I would like to stress that, as in the committee's report, it is necessary to see that some 7% of the other shares are particularly interesting for Croatia to enter into the fund as he is stable, to have a good income side and to supply all those who appear in competitions and need social, humanitarian activity of the fund must never be frozen, and I think that we have enough reason for those who are the creators and creators of the state to be supported by such legal assumptions and laws that will allow the further functioning and trust of Croatian defenders as a valuable purpose and the scholarship of those who are schooled. Thank you very much, I repeat, the HDZ Club supports the amendments and additions to these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91027	We are now going to the Club of Representatives of the SDP, a respected colleague, Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91028	Thank you very much, Mr. President, representatives of the Ministry of Defence, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to welcome this unification of these three points because they are simply logically complemented and updated, so they should be jointly processed by the Croatian Defence Fund and the Scholarship Fund and the Croatian Defence Fund. I'd like to say a few sentences about the history of the fund. So the fund was created 14 years ago, in fact, as a single consequence or a late reaction by Croatian defenders who in the 1990s fought, killed, were wounded, ended up in camps, so that one of our colleagues would say but true, that they were "wearing bloody underpants" until the great Croats with one hand on the heart of Croatia said even worse than the Serbian aggression on the Republic. And then 14 years ago, some individuals, associations like Branko Borkovic, Đura Dečko, Peter Lovrić, Tomislav Mercep and some other associations, launched an initiative to give Croatian defenders at least some crumbs from the table by the great Croats who I repeat to Croatia worse than the aggressors. And for all those years, yes, there has been a privatisation of several large companies where Croatian defenders have benefited from some of it and several small ones, and it should also be mentioned to the INA, which is in strange circumstances in 2008, so I confirm as a former minister who had insight into the minutes from the sessions, so one week or one week Croatian defenders will not sell to the INA, there is no such money that after one phone call Croatian defenders would come to their senses and sell those shares. Unfortunately, all we have left is the only valuable stock and that's the T-com stock. And I have to call on this part where some colleagues insist, and there's actually HDZ is a really top-notch manipulator, and with defenders especially. So, yeah, I wear guilt, crime, 2000, and I don't know which one was in '13 anymore, '14. Croatia's privatisation and defence minister failed to fight 7% of the shares in Croatia's insurance. I mean, it's 50, 60 million kunas, which is a big money, and it's not when it's spoken, it's big for an individual, but for a country, it's not. However, those who criticise it do not know how they tied my hands or tripped, they will not tell Croatian defenders. So in the provisions of the Privatisation Act, the Croatian Government gave Croatian defenders 7% of the privatisation of this, that in 2010 let's say that in this law the word "can" was inserted into the law, so now the Croatian Government can give 7% to Croatian defenders, and when something can mean that it doesn't have to, so it happened to me that I failed to fight for 7% of the shares of Croatia's insurance. But as they say here, there are no colleagues in Boric, he always follows it and I like it when he reminds me of events from sooner or later, so now this conversation is being recorded and this meeting is being recorded and I can't wait to privatise HEP when Croatian defenders will get 7% just don't know if you've informed Prime Minister Plenkovic that if he privatises 25% of HEP then it's no longer 25% but it will be 18 or will have to privatise 32% to get 7% of Croatian defenders. And then we'll see about that. Some of which, of course, is that a 14-year-old law deserves to be changed and I agree with you, I can mention some things that I'd like to say until the final amendment, if you want to change, if you don't want to do just as well. Or, for example, We do not need to put into law that it is very important that the law is changed because the board members did not meet, who defends it before and today, you can meet every day but if it is necessary to put it into the law is not bad either. As for the board members, so far there were 7 members of the board of directors and 3 were representatives of the government including the defence minister and 4 Croatian defenders. I have to tell the truth because when I came to the office of minister, I replaced, I have no idea why and today I'm sorry, but it's not, like, four representatives of defense attorneys and I've put in four representatives of defense attorneys, none of the defense attorneys would mind. I would like to point out that of the four defenders of the three were active tentarians, however, in this business performing around the role and work of the Croatian Defence Fund, they were great, they were very correct and even managed to separate the signs by noon are in the tent, they are in the ministry but the board of directors was doing great. And there's no sin in that. So now I see that what is very logical is being inserted into the board of directors of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Property, it's really very logical but there are four Croatian defenders left, I repeat the meanings of those 7 4 were, the Fund is called the Croatian Defence Fund, so of the 7 members of the 4 were defenders and the 3 representatives of the Government so the defenders played a decisive role in the decision-making process. However, there will now be 5 representatives of the government and 4 representatives of Croatian defenders. However, that should be said, and those four Croatian defenders are from associations that are actually just an extended arm of HDZ, so nothing is technically changing. But it would be nice to have more defenders. Then, I propose even with this part where, of course, the defence minister is a representative of the board of directors and says he will be elected from these other deputies, I suggest that he also be put to be a very representative of Croatian defenders and it would be good given the structure of the entire management fund why not the President of the Management Fund be one of the Croatian defenders, although, of course, the minister is a Croatian defender, but above all, he is a minister in this case. This is something else that happens, of course, to shut down the scholarship fund because after all these years, we even have the cry of the Croatian public as many children as you have and as many as you scholarship after 30 years, it passes to the Foundation. I also want to say that the Scholarship Fund, and mainly or equally, the Foundation did one lion's part of the job and in this part where the state didn't work, the defenders acted alone and through the Foundation, through help they helped dozens, maybe even hundreds of thousands of Croatian defenders, and I welcome this to change the structure of that quarter-quarter, that it goes half-half because it will take a lot. Of course, I also have to mention that one of the reasons why it is done is probably what some would say, I certainly have nothing against it, but 1.1.2019 on the breast of the Republic of Croatia are also representatives of the HVO, and they are known not to be rich and have even less income and material rights than Croatian defenders from the Republic of Croatia, so they will also need help. I welcome you, I very much welcome this article. 45. where the outstanding dividend after a certain time returns to the Fund because we had it ourselves while I was the minister of a major problem. You won't believe that 100 million kuna hangs in the air, neither is the Fund nor is it in the account of the Defence Fund, nor is it on the FINA that runs it, it's somewhere in the air. In order to clarify the public and your colleagues and colleagues, so it is about, the defenders you know that there are more than half a million of us and one good part of the defenders has one day, two days, five days of participation in the war, and he also has the right to certain shares according to his time of participation in the Homeland War, and he has a dividend that is less than, when he comes to FINA while paying for the parking and to go up that dividend, he's more expensive parking than he would raise dividends and hundreds of thousands of such, tens and hundreds of thousands of such people get into the air of 100 million kuna and I welcome him back. It's still the money of the same defenders, but it's coming back to the Fund's control. I would also like to see another reading, which we have discussed in previous years, when this Law is now about to be a more courageous approach. In doing so, I intend to give the possibility of investing that Croatian defenders may, by some conservative method, not enter the bookies of course and try to cash money in these bookshops, casinos, but some kind of conservative approach where income would be something like that, but again, sure. Whether it'll be done in the next one I wouldn't know how to say it in the next period. So I'd like that to change. And lastly, it should be said that the SDP will support these laws, amendments to the law. However, there is always open suspicion when there is a complex combination of elements, which is money, privatisation, HDZ and defenders, there is always some small doubt, but I want to believe that this time it will not be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91029	We're moving on to individual debates now. First came the honorary colleague Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91030	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since today is the anniversary of our late hero Marko Babic from Trpinska Road who destroyed 14 tanks,... Let's remember him in today's debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was wondering how to begin this debate at all, but dear colleague Predrag Matic Fred, former Croatian Defence Minister, gave me everything I could look back on. The mention in the last words of Croatian defenders, and in the context of bookshops, casinos, cafes and all that can be negatively depicted by Croatian defenders, and in addition to everything he did at the time when he was Minister Predrag Matic Fred, who was the one he represented and who represented called tenters, terrorists. Although I know personally, and I became convinced of his heroism on many occasions, when he had to bend his tail. As far as the stock is concerned, everyone has won by the number of points, according to the number of days of a particular stock, so I will ask him here publicly from this place, which many defenders confirm to me with their invitations, from which day the volunteer, who signed it, why did he sign it when we know that he was not where he was being led, as many in this Croatia were not there today for which they collect the benefits. I'll start with a report from the Parliament on the Croatian Defence Fund. He says this way, Linic doesn't want to transfer shares to the Fund, and he sells all state-owned companies. The parliament is discussing a report on last year's business of the Croatian Defence Fund, which at the end of last year was just over 1.2 billion, less than a year ago for 300 million kuna. At the time, Labourist Mladen Novak wondered whether the Fund was sustainable in this way. Since the government does not want to continue to transfer the shares to the Fund that are necessary for its survival. Then it happened that Minister Linic was extremely determined that I... HPB and Croatia shares insurance to the defence fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the time, Mr. Fred was a minister. Apparently, he fought to get the defenders through as well as possible, but it looks like he fought as badly as he did in the Homeland War, if I can convey what I've heard from many. Furthermore, the State Audit Office also published a review report a few days ago on Friday 2014. As for the sale of Croatia's insurance in the report, the state auditor reads that the decision to privatise the company could not have been made on its own, but had to be confirmed by the parliament, and they believe that the price paid for the advisor's services, for the privatisation of about 27 million kuna could have been significantly lower. The information here was for all, and for advisers, and for privatisation, for all, it was just not for Croatian defenders, some were well used by the Homeland War, Croatian defenders were not, and it is possible for those who represented us to do so, so I will read a letter on behalf of the Udovica Association of the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County sent to Minister Matic. Dear Mr Matic, we are very disappointed with your statement that you will not pay the money from the sale of HPB and Croatia insurance to the Croatian defenders' fund but will be used to educate children of the deceased defenders, so we ask that you no longer mention our children or our dead wife in future daily statements. We believe that our husbands have not given their lives to benefit them and their children every time they are used by media promotion and justification for a variety of malfeasances and, unfortunately, it is repeatedly repeated. Mr Matić, please do not deceive the Croatian public and insult our intelligence because we all know how well we can count, so we know how many years have passed since the end of the Homeland War and how old the youngest child can be the deceased defender, provided that at the time of his father's death was still in his mother's belly. Such children have very little and certainly do not need 142 million kunas for their education, in fact they do not need anything more than what the law has so far guaranteed. How many children of the deceased defenders are employed in the Ministry of Croatian Defence and in other ministries as well as in other state institutions and companies according to their names and professional preparation? Do you know how many highly educated children of the dead Croatian defenders are unemployed? You now deny the defenders money in the fund under the exception of our children's education even though our children are in 90% of the cases either finished or completed schooling. You have no right to sell anything or anyone else that is theirs to give them something they don't have anyway, leave me with at least some of what their fathers died for. With all due respect... The city of Zagreb, Zagreb County, Rosalia Bartoliæ, president. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how defenders, defenders, children, mothers, women cried out to their minister and urged him to return to those from whom he could be denied and represented, but he disobeyed in loyalty to those whom he sold his war route for their political promotion and progress, especially in action against defenders in the Croatian Parliament. Spitting on tentacles and those who came out of them, so-called. terrorists as he calls them, who are now acting in their duties both in the Croatian Parliament, as ministers, as many others, and those who allegedly wore bloody underpants with good luck, so they know from which date to which date they were in such a service as she led and recorded professionally with the day of the application and the day of the end of the Homeland War because neither the war began with Vukovar nor ended with Vukovar, ended with the Storm, Cleaning and others, former Minister. He's been saying this since the 11th month. In 2017, the funds that are said to be recovered from the housing loan means that all funds are returned to the defence fund. Why didn't those funds come back at a time when you were a minister? You weren't interested. You've been like this, and you've been with your government, just an air-conditioned man, who's been telling you the way you're going to fight those you represent. I could talk a lot more, but it would all go into a personal discussion, but former ministers, now I'm going to publicly disclose your action by coming to the president of the Joseph Clemm Special Police Association, to his cottage where I was, that the Croatian public once and for all finds out your requests not to tear you down from the minister's seat because you have credits and problems, I listened well. In the cottage, I gave a speech after which you and Mr. Milanovic's bodyguard ran away, and you had to go on a deleted flight after the cottage was a little bit more to the city. That's what I'm saying, no one called you, but you came crawling on your own, and in fear of a bodyguard from your defenders, from those you represented. And another picture in the National that was mounted and that someone of yours that was up there, revealed it was taken the moment we relaxed and you, so secretly, as you know, sat on the edge of the chair to take a picture with us, that's what you did, but for a short time, someone who's always coming back, so also this information to the Croatian defenders to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91031	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Matic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91032	Mr. President of the Parliament, Article 238 was injured, but it was in vain to justify it, so you kept silent and you suffered, and not a single sentence was said about the subject being spoken of, so this was some of his reckoning, so he had a man for five minutes to talk all sorts of nonsense. From this moment on, I can only tell you, so I've always felt sorry for them when they insult you and when they tell you a lot of things, they'll have my support today, too, because I see that you're acting coldly just because you're talking from the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91033	Time's up. .../Friend Matić: Ok./... My colleague Matic, you are well known for the very difficult words you say both in this assembly and outside that assembly and I have never given you a warning or objected to you. So why now do you expect someone else to be called in when he speaks to you in the same way? I warn mostly not because of the content, what is said but if someone breaks time, Rules of Procedure etc. And I think everyone can confirm it, and I'm not going into content debates and I didn't do it this time. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91034	So when there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's really hard to talk to you, but I have to tell you, I mean you know it anyway. So you have a terrible double and maybe a five-fold criterion. Here you warned people not to stick to the subject, to insult any things less, there even some colleagues sit. This time you let it go, no problem, my shoulders are wide, I can handle anything but for the future to know. Thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91035	I don't understand what you're trying to say to me, you'd obviously insult others and make it impossible for them to fight back in the same way. That's a little unusual, it's not my double criteria, it's yours. Let's move on, now it's... Injury of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I didn't see you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91036	Article 238 of my colleague Matic insults me to speak stupidity but I forgive him, yet he is a Croatian defender, the victim of the Homeland War, yet he is a man who is a 100% disabled among Croatian defenders extremely esteemed, who has passed the torture camp, who has been tortured and who knows what was done to him in this camp. Many of his subjects told me about this difficult journey, so here I am from understanding him, Forgive him, I forgive you, Fred. [[President: Okay, thank you, colleague Culey./]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91037	Comrade Culey, please, let's stop this kind of debate now, these are not the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, there have been no injuries to the Rules of Procedure either in your case or in the case of fellow Matic. Now you've started misusing the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure and one and the other, so I'm asking you to stop it. Now I'll give you my word and then I won't.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91038	Well, now that it's my time of forgiveness, I must forgive Mr. Cule and say yes to his question. To me, the late Marko Babic, when we mention him today, and Tomislav Mercep, who is still alive, signed their belongings to God and to you, the complexes of people who came from JNA and who fought on our side, have improved a lot of tanks for the enemy, they are curable. Well, no problem at all. So they gave me confirmation of Marko Babic and Tomislav Mercep and to Mr Culej probably the General of Life Panic who was his boss.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91039	Okay. I beg you, look, colleague Culey, I now ask you, we have gone beyond what is the debate here in the Croatian Parliament. I know there are certain tensions, different opinions, but I'm asking you not to do it here in the Parliament right now. ... Comrade Culey, please, you will now, don't, you said one thing, he said another. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Culey, just a little please, come on, this isn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now, this is your shooting, I'm asking you to stop this. [[Intruder Culej: Yes knows the historical path.]] We are going to the next individual debate of a respected colleague, Djakic. ... Ah, ha, a replica of exposure, yes, yes, sorry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replication to a colleague's exposure to Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91040	Thank you very much. So as many things he didn't understand in my speech I was saying, about investing, so I said not to invest, I wasn't talking about the individual defender, I was talking about the painting that the fund couldn't go to the casino to invest, but to do that. [[This is a replica, this is a replica...]] But to end it really, so it's mentioned I have now, I can say something else, so at that cottage, forgive him God, the gentleman was under the influence of the Mudigans and he's hardly speaking, he's speaking heavy lies, but once and for all, I confess to him here in front of all of you, in front of the public, he's better, smarter, stronger than me, he can do anything in life, all of it, the war route, but we in Vukovar have one saying all the people in the world can bring two watermelons like Mr. Culey and I can handle four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91041	Replication response, please. ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then let's move on to an individual debate, dear colleague Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91042	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think through the debate, everything's been said and I already thought there wouldn't be any defenses like this... as in previous debates because it alluded to the fact that when the SDP supports these amendments to the law, then I hope that for the defence population, however, it is good regardless of the amount of doubt that is expressed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that what's good, I also emphasized it in my debate on behalf of the club, and it's good to know how many people are scholarshipd. 85 thousand through all these years, 85 thousand 890 scholarships that have been achieved whether for secondary education or university education or postgraduate studies for defenders who have continued to study so that they can be managers, so that they can be directors, so that they can be in function of society and development, I think that purpose is justified. It means that nothing was meaningless and that the shares of HT as well as the shares of INA that we've broken spears many times and I'm like... I have to say today that the INA stock is 7% sold to pay off those who applied for the sale of their shares. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , the price reached is the most possible, shares were transferred to the ownership of the Croatian Defence Fund at the price of 1960 kn and sold at 2800 kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a profit that was only such and on the capital market only possible. Over 600 million kunas of income investment in state vault records, in loans to the state that were deposited from 22% to 25%, thank God they achieved the results that were also in the grant fund and also in the Fund that paid for 26 thousand and 411 aid to single Croatian defenders by contributing to those who needed it and who met the criteria absolutely in every possible way to help them. I'm glad today that Mr. Matic was talking about how he didn't have the opportunity and influence, but here I'll just point out, it wasn't just his will, nor was it Linic who said the explicits, I won't give the defenders or the shares anymore because they sold it to the INA. INA is sold we must remember 25% plus one gold share, in which I will always speak, plus one gold on which management rights actually changed and the ability to manage by 27% of defence shares did not contribute 51% of the management rights. So all the delusions that have been past and broken by the spears, our defenders, about whether the defenders sold to the INA or didn't sell to the INA, clearly I want to simply show that 7% with 25% plus one gold didn't go over 51% and didn't allow the buyer to become an absolute ruler of the INA. But that gold stock has always decided how to manage the INA. Croatia's insurance, which we talked about today and the sale of Croatia's insurance, we heard from counterparts Culej, that the state audit said everything about it. The state audit said the sale was controversial from the point of view that the government did not give a decision on the sale of Croatia's insurance, and the State audit made it clear which segments were acted against and what had happened. And the capitalisation that is questionable, as well as all other decisions that were in Croatia's insurance, many times the spear was broken. But today, we would be pleased to see that 28% of those who own the state 7% of shares or Croatian insurance or other state-owned companies enter the Croatian defenders' fund, it would be much easier to manage, there would be a lot more money, for defence or Western centres, who are crying for support, so that they could also provide accommodation, but also for those who need it most. I believe that we all understand this matter together and that we want the Croatian defenders to be well. I would be glad, if we could also bring the Law on Croatian Defence in unanimity, so that this population would cease to be the subject of debate and political rinsing, bickering and I would be glad that I do not have the opportunity to politicise or polarise with the defence population and their problems anymore, so that the options that occurred in the Croatian Parliament or on the political scene would bring oil to the fire each time and thus create a climate of impatience and everything that has happened in the past. I believe that my colleague Matic, who was a minister, has experienced all kinds of escapades many times, as well as the provokings of us, but we never really owe him much, so I don't think today I will deliberately call him because I don't think he's guilty, which he strayed into a political option that had no sentimentality or understanding of the defenders. He really had a good intention and goal, but, as you heard, Linic said his, I don't even give shares to the defenders. And it could not be opposed by Mr Matic, so he could not even Milanovic as the government's prime minister then until he had replaced him. And when he replaced him it was too late, there was no longer the turn of the defence stock, and the political option it represents today, Mr Matic, who, according to the defenders, had a completely different archina different scales and criteria. Today, I am pleased that you have recognised that there is nothing wrong with these legislative proposals, that there are good intentions and that we all have to strive together, to ensure, that the future of the work of the fund, as well as the treasured purposes, as well as the scholarships, as well as to help veteran centres, which are necessary and necessary, but here, we can only do so through further monitoring, changes to these laws, the introduction of new shares and the distribution as set out in this law. I believe that in the vote of all the political options, which are in this House today, we will recognize that there are no hidden intentions in these legislative proposals nor amendments, and that all together will support such a law, and this will be my favorite moment, if all of us unanimously support and bring such changes and additions to help and care for the population, which has really made its contribution and an immeasurable contribution to the Homeland War, especially in the release of the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you all for the proportionate debates, I hope that there will be no more supporting points about this law and that it will be all right for the benefit of Croatian defenders. I don't think there's any need for intense attacks and debates, calls, they've been unnecessary and ridiculous many times. They led the field to further... and the blame that we Croatian defenders, who we together have defended our country of Croatia, are not really necessary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91043	We've got two replicas, the first respected colleague, Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91044	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Djakić, you mentioned in your discussion in 2002 the INA Privatisation Act and after that was held a tender that allowed MOL to buy 25% plus one as you called the INA gold share. I'll tell you that there's a smaller problem in that one gold share, as you call it, than there's a bigger problem with the competition that was subsequently conducted under the law and the contract that was signed was not in line with the competition. If they were... the competitions knew that the MOL’s state rights which did not result from the competition itself would likely be significantly higher in the competition than other participants of the competition itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, the contract was provided for state rights to MOL which do not belong to the owner who has 25% plus 1 as you call it the gold share and in the part of the management of decision-making and timetables the most important function in the INA administration itself, which was a member of the financial procurement management, etc. etc. So it's a fundamental problem than that one gold share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91045	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91046	Thank you very much. Well, counterpart Bacic, I haven't seen the contract that's been made to this day. It's not available to me today, even though I've been a certain time employee of the INA, and I'm strictly interested in taking down the stigma of who runs the INA, who sold what... It took over and coffees were contract forms in INA used throughout this time when the ratio of power or did not change, which was defined by the contract, and there was no competition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am very interested in this as much as the sale of Croatia insurance and the findings of the State Audit under which the DORH did not act or gave no conclusion that it accepted the State Audit report, acted on it, initiated or did not initiate the proceedings. These are things that are really interesting for Croatian society and that we need to discuss in detail and get the knowledge and contract of INA sales, that every MP can read what it says in order not to call each other who did what.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91047	Thank you. Dear fellow Shucker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91048	Thank you very much. A colleague, Djakic, the biggest value of the INA Privatisation Act, is whatever it defines that Croatian citizens and Croatian defenders will be able to get part of the INA. That's one thing. Another thing I was talking about in this House the other day, it says in the Law that at the moment Croatia enters the EU Croatia cannot have more than 25% plus one part of the INA, but that it must be sold under a special law. However, what is not said, which is not to be written about is that the contract on the sale of INA and the share contract concluded between the Government and the MOL defined that MOL, regardless of the relationship between management members and supervision, was 5:2 in favour of Croatia, a member of the finance administration belonging to MOL, and also a member of the administration in charge of the purchase belongs to MOL, which is as if someone gave you 90% of the management rights. The second thing, no investment over 80 million kuna could have been made, the administration could not have brought without the vote of a Hungarian member of the board of directors or a Hungarian member of the Supervisory Board, which means 80 million for an oil company. It's like the two of us are talking about who's gonna pay for the coffee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91049	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91050	Thank you very much, fellow Shuker, for explaining to the Croatian public what the ratio of strength was in the management system of INA by MOL. That's clearly defined by the contract when INA was sold, 25 plus one share. I find it absolutely even more interesting for Croatia's insurance today and what the state audit wrote, so I would like to say that in these two Croatian companies, or this silver of the Croatian state, we really need to continue to care, and 7% of the shares to the defenders who have fallen, I think, because Croatian defenders deserve to have a part of what is most valuable in the Republic because they are also the most worthy to get it. So this 7% of Croatia's insurance is believed by any other Croatian company that is valuable, which will contribute to further progress of the labour fund, development and achievement and the humanitarian and social needs of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91051	We're going to the last debate now. Dear fellow Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91052	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. My colleagues and colleagues, I have expected today to sincerely say a different debate in this House, these three points of the agenda for the simple reason that for me these three points of the agenda are the conclusion of an era of the Croatian Defence Fund. It's just, when you look at their technical structure, then you'll see it's really like that. And it would be logical that in the assessment of the situation, because of all these obstacles that simply appear in the debate, it was written what is the Croatian state, when and in what nominal value it transferred to the Croatian Defence Fund. Which has paid off from the Croatian Defence Fund over the years, how many Croatian defenders have received help, how many children of the dead and missing Croatian defenders have received a scholarship and for only one simple reason because we are finishing one area, one time, one era, however you wish and entering something new. So, what can be read from this bill on the rules of Croatian defenders. First of all, the government wants to show a clear trend, which is that it wants to be more actively involved in managing the Croatian Defence Fund and with ministers in charge of individual areas. Mr. Secretary of State, I would only give you one suggestion here. Since according to the Law on State Property Management, the management of state-owned enterprises is not in the Ministry of State Property but is the management of the RES, I think it is very important here as far as the energy sector is concerned because if we are talking tomorrow about the important transfer of shares regardless of privatisation or not privatisation in the Croatian Defence Fund, then I think that the Minister of Environment is very important throughout the story because its portfolio is far greater. So, the government's intensity is clear. It is also clear to the Croatian Defence Ministry that simply the Fund should act a little differently. However, I cannot help but mention in fact the thinking of all the people who wanted to, created, advocated the establishment of the Croatian Defence Fund, which its intentions and intentions were. So the first and that real original intention was to help Croatian defenders who are in serious life problems and who simply through everything the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence has given them is not enough to raise their standard... So that was the first thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing was that children of Croatian defenders who are of quality, so first of all smart, knowledge and quality, were allowed to reach the highest scientific titles so that their material situation in their family would not be an obstacle. So, colleagues and colleagues are the only two truths why this Croatian Defence Fund was founded. Only. All these other stories after me like a man hurt. They hurt me just as much as they probably hurt the strong defenders who advocated the foundation of the Fund. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, what's the value of this Fund was supposed to be at the beginning? Take the two laws passed during the SDP government. The INA Privatisation Act and the HEP Privatisation Act. No matter what we did back then, we were against passing those laws, but we insisted that 7% of the shares for the Croatian Defence Fund must be found inside. And that's when the consensus was reached. Consensus has been reached in this high house. And precisely because of this consensus, it is not good to throw mud at the Croatian Defence Fund, if there were mistakes. We have every year a report on the work of this Fund and every one of the representatives, and even the representatives of some associations through this representative, could present his opinion, his views, his observations, and that could have been all public. And so I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, let's take these three amendments to the law as the end of one era, the beginning of another era. All that was good to develop, raise to a higher level. Everything that wasn't right, let's fix it. Because that's the only way responsible people behave. Responsible people who are not aware of the fact that they have done something wrong are not responsible people. They're irresponsible people. So whoever's able to admit a mistake has human size. And we here today need to show human greatness, say that something's over and we're starting something new. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, why I said it was necessary to write down how much property was entered. So it wasn't easy there in 2007, 2008, returning 14 billion debt to Croatian pensioners. The situation in the global financial markets was such and such, a decision was made to give so many shares of INA and to give so many shares of HT. However, what I want to say here today publicly, regardless of what some stakeholders and lobbys may call me, but look at your colleagues and colleagues. I don't get it. So then the shares of HT are included in the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange at the value of 265 kuna. Today, the availability of data is virtually possible. See how much HT shares are worth today, 149, 150 kuna. The company that has recorded an annual profit of €2.5-3 billion over the past 10 years. And now I don't get it, if someone's recording great financial results, how the stock's worth is falling. However, the Croatian Defence Fund has resisted its intention to sell shares of HT. They get a percentage, not the value of shares from dividends. So if they have 2, 3, 4%, it doesn't matter how much. If the HT administration and assembly decide to pay the dividend, it shall belong to such a percentage part regardless of the value of the HT shares. We've talked enough about INA. Croatia's insurance, OK. No, that's not when the political option said she took advantage of that provision in the law not to have to, but could and could not have given 7% of the shares. But if through one strange recapitalisation we gave someone a paper to acquire from 39% to 60% of ownership, the state remained somewhere around 30th and a fewth percent of INA, so we still have room to give 7% because, unlike some others, this privatisation of Croatia has led to the fact that this company has been booming lately. Therefore, this is still to be discussed. Why did I say the government's intentions? Because look, if someone sends their ministers to the board of directors and four of them, they'll be four representatives of defense associations, and that key vote will be the representative of our working body for Croatian defenders. So, the government not only takes responsibility, but when you look at the composition of the ministers inside, so the government has tomorrow's intention and realize... Dear Grandma, I think it's really rude what you've done, really rude. Don't be mad. ... So the government has an intention simply through these ministers to suggest which property is due tomorrow... [[You can't hear it.]] If anyone's bothered by the truth, I'll always tell the truth in this House, I'll try to tell the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these are facts. That's the facts. And so I repeat, colleagues and colleagues, let's not only declare support for these three amendments to the law but also tomorrow, when there is any transfer of property, let's all say that this part of the property comes into the hands of Croatian defenders because I repeat, the two original things were. Help is difficult for Croatian defenders who are in a difficult situation and help their children have schooling. These were the intentions of those who value Croatian defenders, who are aware of what Croatian defenders have done for this country and that they simply need help. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues, there must be no political division around this law. We have to be together, we have to be unique, and I say, aware of the facts if we've made a mistake that needs to be fixed, what's good to raise to a higher quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91053	Thank you. We have four replicas. First up, fellow Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91054	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Shuker, you've done well. One chapter is complete, results are visible. I think I've made it clear how many scholarships have been paid, 85 thousand 890 scholarships in the past, 26411 of the once-in-a-lifetime trustees. The needs are changed now and so are the objectives to be achieved in the next period. Care for Croatian defenders, those who are most vulnerable through the centres of veteranism and through treatment must be imperative and we cannot give up on it. The introduction of new shares of any company, and I would like it to be Croatia's insurance, will certainly contribute to the safety, stability, functionality of the fund no longer being questionable and should not be intervened by state resources in order to meet the requirements. The fact is that there are far fewer requirements for scholarships and for trustary purposes, but therefore there are more demands and needs for veteran centres and doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91055	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91056	Yes, colleague Djakic, you are certainly one of the few who has used every opportunity to discuss the Croatian defenders' fund, when it comes to Croatian defenders in this House of Commons, to highlight these things, so what has been done, and also to point to certain problems that have occurred since the time of the Homeland War, and these are these PTSD consequences, that some new models of needs should be helped by Croatian defenders. And that's why I'm saying, one era has ended, another is beginning, and we need to think about some other things, and I'm glad that you and the president of the Assembly Committee and at the head of one of the largest associations, if not the biggest ones from the Homeland War, you keep pointing this out, but I repeat that since this law is an official document and remains in the archives of the Parliament, I think this information should have been listed inside because, say, on some World Bank loan, we're saying how many loans they've given us, then I think these things are far more important precisely because of some of the discussions that are being held in this House of Commons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91057	Thank you. Now it's my dear colleague Lenart's turn, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91058	Thank you, Your Honor. I appreciate you as former finance minister, I think you've been a good minister, I appreciate anyone who participated in the struggle for the country of Croatia, but all of this is a little eye rub, all of this is a bit of a vote purchase, I don't care what government sold to INA, which the government sold to telecoms, they're no longer Croatian. It's a fact we all need to worry about. And that's the problem of the Republic of Croatia. Tomorrow there will be no Croatian Petrochemy, the day after tomorrow there will be Plinacro, in which no more Croatian will be. And what's the result of all this today? That 350,000 people have left Croatia, that there are many children of Croatian defenders who are unfortunately forced to leave the country for whom their parents fought, died, left their health or do not know what they have already invested in creating this Republic. It's a tragedy. We have sold out everything, in one way or another, trading in Croatian votes and governments are always changing regardless of all that trade. I think it's sad and that's our biggest problem in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91059	Thank you very much, time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91060	Comrade Lenart, INA will have a billion for its profits this year and I don't know how much, to pay in the Croatian budget. He won't pay in the Hungarian budget. INA is a Croatian company. HT profit tax, too, is known where they pay. To get things out of the context of time and space, now tell me colleague Lenart, if the government hadn't transferred 7% of the shares of the INA and 7% of the shares of HT, we wouldn't be discussing the Croatian defence fund today because it wasn't there. If HT did not get 2,3 billion kuna and that the Croatian Fund did not receive some 900 million worth of the nominal value of the shares owned by Croatian defenders at this time, there would probably not be a fund and then many shares could not be financed. That's unfortunately the facts. But I repeat, all these companies are based in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91061	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Lenart, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91062	Dear Vice President, Article 238. A fellow Shuker, for a while. What did she transfer for? It's the voice shop. What government? It doesn't matter which one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91063	It wasn't an injury, Mr. Lenart, Mr. Lenart, just a little bit, I see it all. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was an opinion. Well, I know, that was an opinion, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91064	A colleague named Lenart injured Article 238. Where were you in 2007, colleague Lenart? Or 2008? Whose government you were sitting in in 2008. HSS? Where were you, Secretary of State in 2008? Well, you can't blow yourself away from something and you've been in power, for God's sake, so you've been in the ministry... Secretary of State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91065	Mr. Shucker, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure either. I'm closing the breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's turned into a dialogue on opinions. [[I apologize and deserve a warning, Mr. Vice President.]] You can continue this later when you speak or you can now go outside and talk to each other, but not like this because it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. Mr. Miro Bulj has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91066	Comrade Shuker, by privatizing HT, we've put foreigners in the loop to manage our telecommunications, and last year alone, 11% of HT has had more income than last year. Huge profits that are not seen on the fund and are not seen in Croatian society. Mostly telecommunications to hand over to foreign owners to manage the entire infrastructure to manage it in a way that is huge damage to Croatia, not only for the fund, for Croatia, because the biggest profits they have in the Republic of Croatia and they do not invest, reinvest in Croatia, but in Montenegro and who knows where. It is a fact and the sale of telecommunications itself has threatened the national security of the Republic of Croatia and huge money has been given to the management of foreigners, and this has been paid by our people with their money and infrastructure, and then they get it from who knows why. And not only that, they don't pay even the right of service as they pay their country of origin, they work at the expense of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91067	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Answer, Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91068	Comrade Bulj, with all due respect to you, I expected you to talk more about what the defenders got from this. And when you talk about privatizing HT, then use concrete facts. So who, when and why he sold and how much, who sold that steering wheel, exactly what years, how much money, etc. The second thing, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia were given the opportunity to buy shares of HT and you know how much interest it was. However, the citizens sold these shares, unfortunately, many on those shares lost, which is why I was talking about the decline in the value of the shares. However, the Croatian Defence Fund still has a nominal value of around 900 million from HT today. And tell the story to a stranger like this, strangers like that, tell me who's going to invest in Croatia at the moment? You have someone who has 200, 300 million who can invest in one more significant investment. Well, look, it's easy to hit on populist flossules, but the facts are a little different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91069	Mr. Shuker, thank you. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would remind the Croatian public once again, and you encouraged me to take that name away, so I would say a lie that appears in the Croatian space, to the media space that HDZ sold to the INA MOL. So again, I would say, that no government in which it has participated HDZ has sold any shares of the INA to MOL, except for the IPO and sold 7% of the shares of the INA to the Croatian Defence Fund, has delivered no shares to the INA MOL. And that's how a single lie is created in the media area as it actually sold HDZ to the INA MOL. This is not true, it is known that in 2002, respectively, the Government of the SDP sold 25%+1 of the INA shares to MOL and in very suspicious circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91071	Thank you, too. Mr. Shucker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91072	If my colleague Bacic, we've heard it a few times today, so we should simply discuss the facts that are there, they have government decisions. After all, INA is listed on the Zagreb and London Stock Exchange as HT. Someone can talk to me, too, although with all due respect, it doesn't happen on the Zagreb Stock Exchange either. But if someone was messing around in the London Stock Exchange, I think it's just funny. But HDZ didn't sell any shares of INA to the Hungarians. So he sold to Croatian citizens, sold to institutional investors, sold INA employees at discounts they had and which were clearly defined and gave 7% to Croatian defenders. That's the facts. And no matter who liked them, and in that government, both HSP and HSS participated as coalition partners when the decision was made. And secondly, you have government decisions on how many HT shares are redistributed to pay the pensioners just as much as the INA's decision to pay back the pensioners. So that's all the facts you can't escape from.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91073	We're done with the replicas. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists finally, there is a gentleman, the closing word has Mr. Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91074	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, colleagues and colleagues, the fact is that the Defence Fund is at a turning point at the moment. And by this law, we either empower him or shut him down. The fact that if the government, the esteemed secretaries don't enter into this fund, he'll shut himself down, and I think we're acting like that fund is coming before it goes out. It is also a fact that he was created after the war many years to share some crumbs with the defenders, those who fought while these were being robbed, while, therefore, he privatised HT, so we must say that Croatian telecoms began to privatise SDP, ended HDZ, and also INA began to privatise with the white eyes of the SDP, Sanader HDZ ended and thus it worked. But here's the key to having one fund, these two laws are logical laws that shut down the scholarship fund, it's just so natural, but the fact is that at this point we're making an important decision and we can't throw fog in our eyes. If the government does not have the will to allocate money, i.e. The stakes of the company in this fund he is pointless. It is pointless that the reasoning states that the fund was mismanaged, that the board member, the board of directors, had not met and the minister was the one who proposed to the government members of the board. So the government directly appointed members of the board who were not composing. We're talking about serious things here, we're talking about 830 million kunas currently in this fund that are owners of Croatian defenders and we've come to the wall, we can't go on and that's true. At this point, the basic question is whether the Croatian government is ready for what is... In 2010, according to the Law on Privatisation between the laws that 7% can be paid for the sale of companies, 7% may not have written the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now the question is whether the Government has the will of a respected secretary, you should see it with the Minister and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance if she is willing to pay the i.e. to bring the company's stakes into this fund. If there isn't, the fact is, it's going to go out. It's expensive to keep this fund, the costs are huge, the needs are huge, and therefore we're here in front of the wall. To talk about the laws of these as some reform laws is not true, it is not true. That's where we'll agree to all our fellow MPs. So it's final. Here's the thing, dear secretary, is that you tell the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of State property clearly and loudly whether they're in favour of empowering or shutting down this fund. If there are no shares, the fund will be shut down, we will not be able to meet certain human and social needs of Croatian defenders and their family members. If you want to empower him, then you need to publicly state the executive power. Executive power and we parliamentary representatives are the ones who have to support it, in fact, most of it. Most of us have to decide and we agree that this fund is working and strong. We agree, but it is the will of the majority and the executive authority. We have a new Ministry of State property, a list of state property, so the fact is that's what we need to build on. And as for privatisation and war profit, privatisation was a robbery of Croatia during and the Homeland War and after the Homeland War, it was not gloriously finished, numerous companies were shut down, and today I mentioned that the workers of the designer, among them are numerous defenders, did not receive salaries, but they were charged taxes, which is unfortunate, the attitude towards the worker. So at this point, I've had both decisions and two solutions, shut down and empowerment. And that's supposed to be a suggestion, and everything else is fog under cover, I don't know what excuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91075	Thank you, too. Now on behalf of the promoter, he has the final word Mr. Secretary of State Ivan Vukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91076	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. First, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate. I'm extremely glad that there weren't a lot of objections, here, the biggest remarks are from my friend Mira, his... In the final word, you'd just look back on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And all the other remarks and suggestions that you have made today, we will analyse and be sure, that we will do everything, that it will be in line with what is best for the defense population. As far as this part is concerned, as Mr Bulj has objected, I must tell you, so your intention is to propose the board of directors of the Croatian Defence Fund and to be a representative of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Property, to make it clear that the Croatian Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Government is seriously considering keeping this fund, i.e. to leave it to the state, so that it can fulfil that obligation, which, from the net profit, so that the foundation can function tomorrow, both with scholarship and for the help of Croatian defenders. So, be sure to take care of everything, we'll analyze all your comments and suggestions and for the second reading, I think we'll get into a situation where there won't be any objections. So much for today, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91077	There was a replica. Mr. Matic, you. Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, you heard and today there have been a lot of speeches about this Croatian security that not the national government has been able to transfer 7%, and no one from HDZ has explained why it was caused in 2010 by the Croatian government to give the defenders 7% can give, so that was why then Finance Minister Linic did not give the funds. However, by the next reading, cheer up the defenders, cheer up all of us here, transfer 7% from Croatia's insurance and correct our mistakes that we are here for, we deeply regret. Give 7% of Croatian defenders the fund to liven up and that is a very nice gesture before the second reading of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91079	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. I remind you, we had three united laws, not to repeat them. Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of Homeland War and members of their families, in the course of reading. Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders of the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, also in the reading process. And third, same first reading, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91080	Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, first reading, P.Z. No. 385, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final bill, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 94 votes for and 2 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91209	And now a small notice, that's that the next point was supposed to be the Proposal for a Health Protection Act. However, the Committee is still under way, so the smartest decision is to move on to the next law, and when the committee is finished afterwards, let's move on with it. So now we move on to: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 380 Proposers shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is about first reading, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Mr. Secretary of State Željko Plazonić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, today we have a point of the amendment and supplementation law, which plans to ensure the rationalisation and financial stabilisation of the health system, through regulation of the price of prescription medicines. The change in the current normative arrangement is proposed for the reason that prices of newly registered medicinal products are not defined on arrival on the Croatian market, but are determined by the HZZO and only after the MAH submits a request for a medicinal product on the list of medicinal products of the law. The proposal for this law would establish a new system of pricing prescriptions, in a way that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, determines the highest price per prescription on the Croatian market, and calculate the prices of regular publication on its website. At the same time, the Institute would be able to make more favourable arrangements for the price of medicinal products with authorisation holders for expensive innovative medicinal products and thus include new medicines on the list of medicines for the establishment, which would become more accessible to patients. Health institutions in the Republic of Croatia would be allowed to purchase and purchase medicines that are not listed on the list of medicinal products of the institution at defined prices, which must not exceed the maximum price of the medicinal product calculated by the Agency. Or, in short, this is an attempt at the legal regulatory price of medicines that will give us the most economically profitable price, and otherwise the item of consumption is for prescription medicines quite high in our budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91211	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the committee who discussed it, want to take a word for it? No, I don't. So let's just go to a debate. We're opening a debate. The first is Mr. Marko Sladolev in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, the Honorable MPs and MPs. In the beginning, I will comment on the amendment and addition of the Drug Act, and then I will refer to some articles of the law itself. The basic problem of drug policy in Croatia, both the pricing of medicines and the rational use of medicines are not at all related to the existing provisions of the Drug Act, so they will not be resolved by these amendments and additions to the law. The most significant problem with implementing the current pricing and return system for medicines in the Republic of Croatia is the enormous and uncontrolled growth of expensive hospital medicines that increased from around 700 million kuna 10 years ago to over 2.2 billion kuna per year at an annual growth rate of 10 to 15%. While the drugs in the pharmacy were still at about 3 billion kuna. For medicinal products in pharmacies, the 2006 reform of the system has just introduced so-called P&R measures, basic and supplementary lists according to the model therapeutic standard plus the reference price which established an efficient cost control, but also through faster inclusion of new medicinal products on the list of medicinal products provided greater insurance rights. For expensive hospital medicinal products it is persistently avoided to implement measures that would rationalise treatment for patients who really need it. This currently represents, not only the most significant financial problem of the health system, but also the professional medical problem, but also has a significant negative impact on the Croatian economy,... means the potentiation of imports of expensive medicinal products by the industry in relation to cheap domestic generics, but also increasing exports of profits from the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law therefore states, therefore, that in order to create preconditions that ensure financial stabilisation of the health system and regulation of the drug market, this legislative proposal would establish a new system of product prices. Under this system, the Agency for Medicinal Products would determine the maximum price allowed for the medicinal product, and the HZZO in the follow-up may, on the basis of a contract concluded between the holder of the authorisation, contract and a lower price. So our comment is this, the quote is absurd because it's not about the new system, but the existing calculation of the price of drugs would only be per new radio... Instead of HZZO, which has been doing it successfully since 2001. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a change which is a technical application and brings nothing new to the content of the system of prices and the return of medicines. This will not ensure any financial stabilisation of the health system or regulation of the medicinal products market. All necessary measures are now prescribed, but their implementation is disputed as indicated in the opening comment. The proposal puts emphasis on only two measures of drug policy: determining the maximum price and conclusion of the contract, all other measures, in particular those key measures, are not highlighted at all, and the idea is that the entire system of pricing and refunding medicines will only be aware of these two, by significant marginality, especially those mentioned in the draft amending the law, and this will instead create procedural and price chaos in the system and consequently significant financial damages instead of stabilisation. Furthermore, the law also provides for the possibility and conditions under which prices can be lower and extremely higher than the maximum price of the product. So it's all prescribed by the current provisions of the law. Next, the proposed HZZO law would allow for more favourable pricing of medicines, for expensive innovative medicines, and thus for the inclusion of new medicines on the list of medicines for the establishment. This allegation cloudes the existing situation in which HZZO has and now all possible mechanisms, including the contract as a measure for expensive medicines, but the implementation of available measures is controversial and irrational. On the existing list of HZZO medicines there are about 4500 different medicines and a proposal for the HZZO to normally set its prices by means of a contract is unsustainable in view of the way the drug market works, even for the superficial knowledge of the system completely absurd, the HZZO has now concluded a contract only for part of expensive medicines, which covers several percentages in the total number of medicines that do not normally have a therapeutic replacement, and as a basis in the contract requires a very detailed and specific farm of economics. The following provision of the law states: amendments to the applicable Law on Medicinal Products are also necessary for the purpose of establishing clear and transparent criteria for the determination of the price of medicinal products in accordance with the requirements of the Directive of 21 December 1988. The promoter is contradictory of himself because in the third paragraph of this chapter, he has already stated that the applicable law in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia has adopted this Directive. One of the conditions for entry into the EU was indicated when all clear and transparent criteria necessary for the determination of the price of medicinal products were prescribed. As the directive has not been amended, there is no need to amend the law in this respect. Therefore, the change in the price of HZZO drugs to Halmed does not have a foothold in EU legislation and is not conditional on that. Since 2001, HZZO has been doing an annual calculation of the prices of medicinal products and the calculation of the prices for inclusion in the list of medicinal products, and thus the stalking and clear procedural procedure has been contained and confirmed by the EU prior to membership. Now I would refer to some articles of the law, specifically, so Articles 5 to 11. These articles replace Articles 188 and 192 of the existing law and propose to maintain existing provisions for a series of observations and possible consequences instead of new articles. Namely, although the calculation of the prices of the drugs that Halmed would do instead of HHZO is seemingly technical, the problem that we have mentioned in the assessment of the situation and the proposals for some provisions suggest that some controversial changes, price methodologies and the return of medicines are being introduced. Following the new Article 5 calculation of the prices of Halmed, it would extend the existing scope of HZZO to drugs in RX status that are in free sale. This is questionable for a number of reasons mentioned in the public debate by professional companies, authorisation holders and wholesalers, and for the most part means a new financial impact on domestic drug manufacturers. According to the new Article 6 of the Agency, the maximum price of the medicinal product in the current system is the average price comparison. This is only one of the pricing measures and the multiannual implementation has significantly reduced its impact on cost rationalisation since over 90% of the prices are below the average price comparison level as currently allowed. The benefit would only have a single individual foreign producer to trim real prices while a number of domestic producers are below 30%. Paragraph 6 of the new Article 6 introduces the payment of the costs of the calculation, which is the introduction of a new parafiscal charge because there has never been any such cost so far because it is normally submitted by the holder of the authorisation in the calculation instead of reducing the existing high-priced Halmed, the question of new costs relating to the procedures to which the amendments to the law will be kept before Halmed is now imposed. According to the new Article 8, the calculation of the prices of medicinal products that would work Halmed does not eliminate the need for the same or similar procedure for the purposes of HZZO whether or not a contract is concluded. Namely, as a payer, HZZO should be assessed for the price of recovery of the product if there is a list of HZZO medicinal products as a basic measure in... a system or type of price list with a number of additional parameters such as method of administration of the medicinal product, guidelines of regulation which comply with the rules of the profession, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the purpose of this, there is a risk of a potential double erosion of drug prices as a rule of the generation of domestic producers, when the overpriced product may be at stake for the supply of the Croatian market for a small volume of sales, certain and cheaper medicines that will become economically invaluable for the continuation of production, while prices of expensive medicinal products by the foreign industry will generally be at a maximum price. The new Articles 7 and 9 refer to the deadlines and the right of appeal which have already been arranged in the existing Articles 188 to 191. The new article 6 is talking about... a higher price and a new article 10 on the removal from the list of medicinal products, which has already been arranged with existing articles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 17 has been added after a public hearing and has not been proposed in either the working group or any part of the procedure. Elimination of the terms of the basic and supplementary list of medicinal products means the abolition of the determination of the therapeutic standard and the reference price as the most important measures governing the market for medicinal products in pharmacies, an earlier percentage system has led to a constant increase in the budget of the Pharmacy Office for about 700, 800 million kuna per year from 2003 to 2006 and all that expenditure has been converted into exports of profits outside the Republic of Croatia since the declared part of the import medicinal products had high prices and high participations. By introducing a basic and supplemental list of medicines, the cost of medicines in pharmacies has been around 3.3 billion for 10 years and is the only item in the health budget that does not grow. Finally, we believe that the main problem for the determination of prices and the transport of medicinal products is not the subject of proposed changes to the law, and that there is a great risk that the amended regulation will just negatively reflect the well-structured part of the system of pricing and return for medicinal products in the Republic of Croatia and will not solve the most significant problem with uncontrollable cost growth for expensive medicines. We express great concern that changes in the model as proposed will have very negative implications for the domestic drug industry and without a clear contribution and efficiency of the health system in Croatia. Finally, the possible disorder of regular supply to cheap but volume-sensitive drugs would present a major public health problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91213	Thank you, too. In front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Vlatko Kopic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91214	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Before the presentation, on today's proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products, let me briefly state the basic characteristics and importance of the law itself in order to better understand our citizens. Namely, the Act on Medicinal Products currently in force aims to ensure effective, high-quality and safe medicinal products as a product of special importance for human health, which also determines the process of testing and placing on the market, production, labelling, classification, transport, pharmacovigilance, quality checks, advertising, supply of Croatian medicinal products and surveillance of medicinal products, the medicines examined, active and auxiliary substances. The applicable law complies with the applicable EU Directives and this Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on medicinal products for human use, the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 4 April 2001 concerning good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. Next, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 relating to traditional herbal medicines, Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 relating to the area of placing on the market of a finished medicinal product, the 2008 Directive on medicinal products for human use relating to the exercise of the powers of the European Commission, the 2010 European Parliament Directive relating to medicinal products for use in people with regard to pharmacovigilance, the European Parliament and the Council Directive of 8 June 2011 concerning medicinal products for use in people with regard to counterfeit medicinal products and, finally, the 2012 Directive on pharmacovigilance itself. The provisions of the applicable Act order that marketing authorisation holders submit a proposal to the HZZO for the price of the medicinal product only when applying for the basic or supplementary list of HZZO medicinal products. A solution shall be adopted on the tabled HZZO proposal within the prescribed time limit. The rules adopted under the applicable Medicinal Products Act are laid down criteria for the determination of the price of the medicinal product as well as criteria for the placing of medicinal products on the basic and supplementary list of HZZO medicinal products for health insurance. In order to create a prerequisite to ensure financial stabilisation of the health system and to regulate the market for medicinal products, this legislative proposal would establish a new system for determining the price of prescription medicinal products and which the marketing authorisation holder intends to place on the market in the Republic of Croatia. Under this system, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices would determine the maximum price allowed for the medicinal product, and the HZZO in the follow-up may, on the basis of a contract concluded between the marketing authorisation holder or the wholesaler, negotiate a lower price than the maximum price established. Next, it can be said that it is also attributed to the possibility and conditions under which the price of the medicinal product can be lower than the maximum price of the medicinal product and is extremely higher than the maximum price of the medicinal product. The change in the current normative arrangement is also proposed by the fact that prices for newly registered medicinal products are not defined on arrival on the Croatian market, but are determined by the HZZO only after the MAH has submitted a request for the placing of the medicinal product on the list of medicinal products of the Institute. The proposed HZZO Act would allow for more favourable pricing of medicinal products with marketing authorisation holders for expensive innovative medicinal products, and thus include new medicines on the list of medicines that would become more accessible to our patients. Amendments to the applicable Law on Medicinal Products are also necessary in view of the need to establish clear and transparent criteria for the determination of the price of medicinal products in accordance with the requirements of Directive 21 December 1988 of the EU on transparent criteria which determine the prices of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in national health insurance systems. Furthermore, this Proposal for a Law will also achieve the optimisation of the pricing process of medicinal products that will be publicly available and the maximum price of medicinal products on the current list of HZZO medicinal products for health insurance or intending to be placed on lists, and open the possibility of reducing expenditure on medicinal products from compulsory health insurance. Similarly, the proposed proposal for the Law will ensure the rationalisation and financial stabilisation of the health system through regulated prices of prescription medicinal products. The change in the current normative arrangement is proposed for the reason that prices of newly registered medicinal products are not defined when arriving on the Croatian market, but are determined by the HZZO. Only after the Marketing Authorisation Holder submits a request for a medicinal product on the list of medicinal products of our Office. The bill would establish a new system of pricing prescriptions for medicinal products in such a way that the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices determines the highest price allowed on the prescription on the Croatian market, and that the calculated prices need to be published regularly on its website. At the same time, the Institute would be able to arrange more favourable prices for medicinal products with authorisation holders for expensive innovative medicines, and thus include new medicines on the list of medicines that would become relevant at the service of our patients. A health care facility in the Republic of Croatia would be able to obtain and purchase a medicinal product not listed on the Agency’s list of medicines at a defined price which must not exceed the maximum price of the medicinal product calculated by the Agency. Finally, it is important to stress that the implementation of this Act does not require the provision of financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. According to all this, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the further procedure of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91215	Thank you very much. Mr Zeljko Jovanovic will now speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91216	Thank you very much, Vice President. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to stress that the SDP Club will support the amendments to this legislative proposal because we believe that ultimately these changes will contribute to greater availability of medicines in the Republic of Croatia. We are witnessing that health costs are constantly rising, growing for several reasons, among other reasons due to ageing, due to an increasing number of chronic diseases, due to the increasing availability of new technologies and new medicines, growth and the expectations of the population, where one of the dilemmas that exists, if we look at the total health costs in Croatia back 10 years, they did not grow by the largest part due to medicines. So right at the beginning, since this is what I do, I must stress that medicines and growth in drug consumption in Croatia are not the main generator of higher health costs. Most of what my colleague Sladolev said at the Bridge, we don't agree at the SDP club. In addition, the e-consultation and some of the remarks that he made have been directly contacted by Halmed representatives, and this also concerns Article 17 in particular. The Croatian Chamber of Pharmacy stressed that it agrees with this article, if someone here is essential to say it, it is just a pharmacy. A few data important to this topic. So in 2016 in Croatia, the consumption of medicines, so for 2017 we still don't have that data, was 5.8 billion kuna. so many Croatian citizens spent on medicines, which is a growth of 4.7% compared to 2015. You know that most of these costs go to HZZO, so out of the 5.8 billion kuna, 5 billion are on HZZO's field, and the rest 800 million on someone else's other cost. As for hospital, out of hospital consumption, of 5.8 billion kuna in hospitals, consumption was 2.2 billion kuna, which is 20% increase, mostly due to greater availability of innovative medicines, which is certainly commendable, while outside hospital consumption was 3.6 billion, the increase was 4.5%, and overall if we look at drug consumption in Croatia 63% goes beyond hospital consumption. And what's very interesting, if we look at the relationship of the recipe and without the recipe sale, then the recipes were spent in Croatia with 5.2 billion kuna, and without a prescription sale was 600 million kuna. And I believe it's exactly that 600 mil. Kuna hides the possibility of saving for Croatian citizens. Unfortunately, some commercials also spend money on some without prescription drugs, so education would be very important. What should be pointed out is that the Republic of Croatia has a stable and developed generic market in which the share of generic medicines is 70%, there is a significant part of our domestic producers, which is comparable to environmental data. What is certainly not good in Croatia, that the consumption of prescription drugs per capita compared to, say, the Czech Republic, Hungary or Slovakia by as much as 29% lower, and that gives the consumption of original medicines the lowest compared to the country's environmental survey. This means that in Croatia, although this is changing slightly, the availability of innovative medicines is at the latest in relation to EU countries, and this is not good because these innovative medicines actually significantly extend the life and quality of life today and the meaning of every legal proposal that we bring to the Croatian Parliament would be to increase the availability of exactly such medicines, and we in the SDP club believe that this legal proposal will indeed do so. We heard that one of the most important changes, a change in where part of the business is transferred to the Croatian Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which is a very high-quality agency, and this transition by us at the SDP club brings a certain reduction of all the procedures that have been conducted in the HZZO so far, and that is why it is a good change. In addition, this way, the possibility is ensured, in particular, that HZZO has the possibility of more favourable pricing and medicinal products with marketing authorisation holders for expensive innovative medicines, and thus to include new medicines on the list of medicines that would make them more accessible to patients, which is crucial, that was our biggest problem in the past period. In this way these medicines become more available and our patients will be able to be treated in the best possible way. For all these reasons, the SDP Club supports this amendment, with one note, to ask that the implementing acts and rules which are regulated in Article 14 be adopted as soon as possible. It is listed here within 6 months, since no procedure can be carried out before these rules are known, we propose that this deadline be reduced to 3 months, without actually waiting at all, that practically after the law is published in the NN, the Minister should adopt all the rules necessary to ensure that this law can be implemented immediately and more accessible to patients in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91217	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic. Now we move on to individual debates. ... Two MPs withdrew their proposals. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have again as individual Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91218	Thank you very much. Here are a few more thoughts about this topic in an individual debate. So what we know well is that prices of medicines are strictly regulated by laws and regulations. Consumer medicines agreed in the form of contracts, but also bribed with drug manufacturers, where they all finance all spending above the agreed limits, which means there is no risk for the system and it is very important to highlight it in Croatia. Therefore, I believe that money should follow the needs of patients for treatment and anyone who needs it should be given the most adequate drug based on the latest medical knowledge available through insurance. You know that prescriptions are particularly expensive medicines, they shouldn't actually be restricted to regulation because they've been strictly regulated through HZZO restrictions so far, through contracts with manufacturers that carry everything that's been paid above that. Unfortunately, Croatia, although the importance of healthcare is recognised from year to year and perhaps good that this law comes before the Health Protection Act, we can point to some additional problems for which there might be no time in the discussion of health care itself. Croatia singles out 18% of public health funds, more than we single out Germany alone. In Croatia, however, the population spends at least 137 euros per capita annually, while in Slovenia, for example, it is 250 euros, in Austria, in France, 375 euros per capita. What needs to be pointed out is that 85% of the funding for health care in the Republic of Croatia is financed from public spending, only Luxemburg is above us. However, if we convert that percentage into GDP, the Croatian picture of health funding is devastating. The absolute amount is of extremely small funds per capita because we stand out 7.8% of GDP and the EU average is 10%. So, calculated as money, we're giving out 3x less than the European average for health care. One of the most important indicators of quality health care is the life expectancy in Croatia, where in Croatia it is 4.6 years less, for example. compared to Spain. The expected duration of life in our country is 82.5 years and certainly the expected duration of life is also directly affected by the availability of medicines. According to the consumption of medicines, Croatia is far below the European average. I have already stressed that despite the wrong opinion, drugs are not the main generator of cost growth in Croatian health care. Here's an example of a hospital, I'm not going to say which of the 12 million kunas that hospital from HZZO gets 12 million kunas a month, 10 million kuna goes to pay. So how do you even meet the needs of the patient department if out of 12 million 10 goes to the cost of pay. Therefore, there is not yet sufficient transparency, rational and consistent and comprehensive criteria for assessing health technologies and for making decisions on drug refund. I believe we will all agree that early diagnosis, prescription therapy affect the outcomes for both the patient and the state. The previously treated and cured patient is once again able to work and should not be supported or needed by the state budget. Therefore, all European administrations face challenges to ensure doctors have the best therapeutic options for their patients, and this task is not related to this drug law to bring all registers, diseases in Croatia on the basis of which they will be able to track who is the most successful, determine the reference centres of excellence and thus ensure that our patients get the most quality care without spending money in vain because we do not have enough of them to ensure that our health care is solid, comprehensive and equally available to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91219	Thank you, too. And finally, the last individual debate, Mr. Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91220	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. We have before us amendments and additions to the Drug Act. We have already heard many times that the aim is to rationalise and stabilise the health system and regulate the drug market. So what is definitely visible from these amendments and the addition of the law to further strengthening the transparency and introduction of the Croatian Medicines and Medical Devices Agency as an important institute to make the price of medicines more accessible. It is definitely necessary when determining the price of the medicinal product and counting the fees for the disposal of medical waste. Only in the City Pharmacy of Zagreb last year, 6 million kunas were spent on destroying medicines that expired, which is, what is very important to think about. But what I wanted to mention in this brief discussion is what the Croatian health system lacks, so it is a system of distribution of single therapy. At this point I know how rare it is those health institutions that have unit therapy distribution apparatus. So, what a separate doctor prescribes pharmacotherapy for that day is she goes to a central hospital pharmacy and then therapy agrees for a specific day. This reduces the possibility of medical errors, it is almost completely eliminated and thus the patient’s safety increases. On the other hand, a separate supply of medicinal products is reduced to the necessary minimum, which significantly reduces the consumption of medicinal products. We have a situation where when we look at supplies of drugs, then a third of the drugs are found only in a hospital pharmacy and two thirds of them are in separate supplies. So despite these positive shifts where the first price line is introduced, the Croatian Medicines and Medical Products Agency is then the last line of HZZO which can negotiate with the manufacturer or distributor at a lower price. I appeal to future steps that the Ministry of Health will take. Let's just say I work at the Vrapce Psychology Clinic, we still actually get blister packs that go into retail, so they spend time medical staff, nurses, and there can be a lot of money saved, significantly more than could be saved and what will be saved with these changes. So I appeal that the new legislation takes account of this and that it allows hospitals in wholesale terms to order non-sale packages of medicines but wholesales which are then significantly cheaper in the hospital health care system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91221	Thank you, too. Okay. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91222	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 380, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Second, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that with 90 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 7 against a abstention, it is concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91223	We still don't have the board's report, which means the board's still in session. We move to: - Proposal for a law implementing EU Regulation, 20177745 on medical products and EU Regulation 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 381; On the occasion of the debate on this agenda point, the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed it. Does the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, want an opening statement?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The draft Act implementing Regulation 2017/745 on medicinal products and Regulation 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical products provides for the competent authorities and their tasks to carry out controls and the regulation of appropriate infringements, which sanction non-compliance with the provisions of the EU Regulation on medical products and with one and other in vitro diagnostic medical products and the EU law itself. The aim of those regulations and proposals of the Law is to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal markets, as regards medical products and in vitro diagnostic medical products, starting with a high level of protection of patients and users' health, and taking into account small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector. One of the key aspects of achieving the objectives of these Regulations is the creation of a European database for medical products, etc. The EU should include different electronic systems for the collection and processing of information relating to products on the market and relevant economic operators, certain aspects of conformity assessment, notified bodies, certificates, clinical trials, distillation and market surveillance. The objectives of the database should be to increase general transparency, including greater availability of information for the public and healthcare professionals, to avoid multiple reporting requirements, to increase coordination between Member States, and to streamline and facilitate the flow of information between economic operators, notified bodies or contracting authorities and Member States, as well as between individual Member States and the European Commission. The legislative proposal will establish stricter control of medical products and in vitro diagnostic medical products, thereby increasing the level of protection of public health and safety for Croatian citizens, who use medical products and in vitro diagnostic medical products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91225	Thank you, too. Whether or not the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.15 HOURS]] I'd ask you to take your seats. If the proposer wants a representative, no, no, we've already asked the committees. I'm opening a debate, we're moving on to clubs, Mrs. Zeljka Josic, the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91227	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr Ministers with fellow workers, dear colleagues and fellow representatives, we have before us a proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/745 on medical products and Regulation (EU) 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical products. The aim of these Regulations is to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market in relation to medicinal products and in vitro diagnostic medicinal products, taking into account patient health protection. High standards of quality and safety of medical products and in vitro diagnostic products are established. Rules for placing on the EU market, putting into use these same products are harmonised, thus allowing the free movement of goods. These Regulations also determine the reliability of those data obtained by clinical trials as well as the protection of the safety of subjects. What is very important to us is the creation of a European database for medical products. What exactly is the target of this base? This is to increase transparency and availability of information for the public but also for healthcare professionals, increase coordination among Member States and facilitate the flow of information. What should certainly be clarified is what is considered a medical product and what is in vitro a diagnostic medicinal product. So the medical product is every device, instrument, device, implant, reagent, other object that the manufacturer intended to be used alone or in combination for human beings. And as for in vitro diagnostic products, here we can talk about any medical product, reagent, calibration, control materials, certain components of instruments, instruments, devices, parts of equipment or systems that the manufacturer himself intended for in vitro use and for testing samples including donations of blood and tissues originating in the human body. And they all serve for the purpose of obtaining information related to physiological and pathological processes with congenital physical or mental damage associated with predisposition with disease or disease for the determination of safety and compatibility with potential recipients, for predicting response or response to treatment, or for the determination or monitoring of therapeutic measures. In order to implement those regulations, the competent authorities have also been designated, of course, by the Ministry of Health and the Medicines Agency. In order to implement the regulations through our competent authorities, the Ministry of Health approves clinical studies of medicinal products, in vitro diagnostic medicinal products efficacy studies, and monitors and monitors clinical studies of medicinal products and in vitro diagnostic medicinal products themselves, and decides on the designation of conformity assessment bodies shall be accompanied by manufacturers and evaluated by the notified bodies in accordance with all EU Regulations 2017/745 and shall give consent to the Agency for the placing of certain medicinal products on the market. As regards the Agency itself, it, as the competent authority, also has its specific function, means that it checks data in the electronic system for registration operators, manages the registry of distributors, approves the placing on the market or use in accordance with certain articles of these Regulations, and that it is a certificate of free sale. So, what's really important, all of these products, whether they're medical products, in vitro diagnostic medical products, have to pass the conformity assessment process. This procedure does not go beyond certain circumstances. So this can happen if it comes to those products that are of great interest to public health, to the safety or health of patients. It is very clear that the application of these regulations through the laws defines how clinical research is conducted and who is carrying out the costs of the clinical trial, the way in which the subjects are explained how clinical trials are conducted. Then what is also very important is what was said in this assembly, when the vaccines were discussed, and these are harmful events and then their application to the Medicines Agency. This way, therefore, stricter control of medical products and in vitro medical diagnostic products is carried out, which is extremely important to us for the public health of people. That is why we, as a HDZ club, will clearly support the implementation of these regulations and through the law presented by the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91228	Thank you very much. And now, in front of the SDP club, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91229	Honorable ministers with associates. The SDP Club will support this Law implementing this Regulation for a simple reason, which means greater security for all our patients and, of course, facilitates the work of all healthcare professionals working with medical products. So, as medicines exist, there are also medical products, the only difference and the key difference between the medicinal product and the medicinal product is that the medicine produces its main intended action in or on the human body does not achieve pharmacological, immunological or metabolic effects although their effect may be assisted by such effects. They are designed to diagnose, prevent, monitor treatment, endanger disease, diagnose, monitor, treat, control, reduce, remove physical damage or deficiency, study, eliminate or replace and alter the anatomic physiological functions of the organism, control of conception. A special section refers to in vitro diagnostic medical products that Josic spoke of in detail, so I would not repeat it, but I will repeat only one part because of the sentence I will say afterwards. Therefore, in vitro diagnostic and medical products that include everything that the colleague listed are mainly used for the purpose of obtaining data to determine the physiological or pathological condition, to determine congenital anomalies, to determine safety and compatibility with the user, to monitor therapeutic procedures. Therefore, it is clear that it is medical laboratory procedures, and even from this proposal we see the justification of the magistrates of medical laboratory diagnostics, so I hope that the Ministry will respect all the objections that have come from the field and related to the health care law, and then also to the Health Activity Act, both masters, medical-laboratory diagnostics should not go to Dublin where they can immediately get a job, but could be employed in laboratories throughout the Republic of Croatia both at the level of primary health care and at the level of hospital health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91230	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate because there are no individual steps. And we'll vote ritually, yes, once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91231	Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/745 on medicinal products and Regulation (EU) 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical products, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 381, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/745 on medicinal products and Regulation (EU) 2017/746 on in vitro diagnostic medical products and others, and all comments and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that, with 96 votes in favour and 1 vote against the vote, it is concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91232	And now we move on to this law that we skipped before the Health Committee sat down and brought its opinion. - Proposal for a Health Protection Act First reading, P.Z.E. No. 379 The Proposer is, this is Bill 379. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. ... The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to this item of the agenda and shall be implemented by the debate, with the exception of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Health and Social Policy, which has just concluded. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does the proposal's representative, Minister Milan Kujundzic, the health minister, want to take the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, I will briefly try to present the Health Protection Act. It's the only law that applies to everyone. So no other law is so directly connected to any individual like the Health Protection Act. Whether someone is one day or a hundred years old, all of us are concerned with the Health Protection Act, and that is why when we were created, when we proposed this Law, we rose from any ideology, party, association and what forms of entities that could influence us. They opened the door wide, opened the discussion with everyone, respected the criticisms, proposals, working versions with the basic idea, as they continued to preserve what the Croatian health system has very, very high value, it is a guarantee of availability on the one hand and on the other hand preserve the high quality of Croatian medicine and Croatian health system. We also stuck to the principles of respecting the reality of where we live, what are the circumstances, which are good and bad experiences from closer and further history, and what we should especially consider what we should do tomorrow. So one was respected by a basic health care entity, which is a patient. And on the other hand, healthcare providers, so healthcare workers, to stimulate them to work in the Croatian healthcare system and not leave Croatia. So, by dealing with this, we've finally tried to do we're holding a bill that's acceptable to the great, great majority. What was conditionally caused by big storms, but these are barrels in a glass of water and unbelief, it was actually who could and who couldn't go to the so-called. private or who may or may not have the status of the office and remain in the home of health as an employee. In doing so, we have made the following model, which is, the health homes are the main subjects in implementing primary health care with all the good that they have shown over the decades behind us, and on the other hand we hold that people who are already working as concessionaries and MPs should be motivated and should remain in Croatia. On this trail, the bill states that up to 25% of the offices should remain in the health homes, which will be a percentage, will be decided by the highest body of local self-government, so the county assembly or the assembly of the city of Zagreb, which is also the primary body for the negotiation and responsibility of forms of health care in a particular county. In doing so, we left the county assembly that it would decide whether it would be 3, 5, 9, or 25%. There were few language discussions here and why up to 25%, why not at least 25%. At least 25% would mean that what some, one form of nationalization, advocated would return everything to so-called. social property. And again, we had another extreme where one part of my colleagues asked everyone to go to the so-called. private offices or concession status. We hold what is true in all the countries we seek, developed democracies that Croatia needs both public and private. And we have conditional burns from each other. We all remember so-called. The rapid privatisations of the '90s with the damages that have taken place for this people but we also remember, in particular, the older me and some other forms of social who have done the damages that were also great. So the County Assembly will decide what percentage this will be with those doctors and sisters who will work in health homes as employees under the new law and with the new regulation that the government will adopt will not be in an unequal position as they are now and this irregular position stems from the following. No matter how many these teams work and what quality health services they provide, their salaries are defined so that doctors work for 750 kuna and their colleagues do about the same or similar work for several times the salary. So now doctors who are employed in a health care home will be able to and will be home to health care, giving them a reasonable salary according to what results they have. As far as this is concerned, another thing is happening and it is that these people who are in the home of health as employees who want to be the holders of the office in an extremely transparent way this law introduces will be able to become public competitions for the holders of the office. And it will no longer be who is good with the director of the health home either with the mayor or with some third who is conditionally powerful at the level of local self-government in the finality consent given by the parish assembly. So in democracy, the most transparent is what is said in the Parliament or in the County Assembly, or in some other depending on what level we are talking about, and thus the maximum narrowing of the space for possible injustices in the future and which happened in the past. This law also regulates one weakness that we have had in the last 20 years since the lease and later concessions, which is that part of doctors who were in concessions and leases, and a significant part of them did not want to participate in duty and emergency situations. Their answer was that they were not interested in it, that they were making enough money, and that it would not do what was causing serious problems, which are being witnessed by a number of local levels where this was happening. The proposal for a new law resolves this, all have an obligation whether or not it is the holder of the office or is an employee of home health, all have an equal obligation to participate in the weekends, or during holidays. And if he accidentally refuses it, then he loses the contract with HZZ and ends his status, the status he has. Another newspaper that we are introducing is encouraging and regulating in the homes of health, better providing consular specialist services and extra-bolic palitatives. In this way we will receive specialists to patients where they travel less and most services can be obtained in their nearest location on one side. On the other hand, with this law, we strongly encourage daily hospitals to achieve much more pro-pulsivity and much better quality regarding diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. Another newspaper that we have introduced into the law and we have introduced it in fact, otherwise in medicine we are not the ones who invent hot water but we see what they have already done best in the world and then we try to be like them and so unfortunately our serious problem, and it is becoming an older and more few populations throughout Croatia, not rarely because of the distance from the offices where their doctors are unable to reach their doctors. According to the model that I cited in the Nordic countries and China we introduce mobile offices, translated, these are actually conditionally said campsite homes in which the interior and tools found in them are both of the same quality as in the best organized office of primary health. And such wheeling offices, let's call them work to make it possible for doctors to come to these villages, to these places so that these people can have appropriate health care. In the introduction and regulation of the office we actually solved in the proposal for this law and the serious problem we had with the formal legal aspect. For those of you who know a little better so far, we've had three primary and health statuses, so we've had tenants, we've had concessionaries, and we've had health employees. This is what is now being arranged, because for the past 3 years, the tenants, formally, legally, have no longer existed, and it has been extended to work with the regulations of the past governments, and this government did the same thing several months ago. Encouraging doctors in primary and medical doctors, who have been concessionaries so far, and are now the holders of the office, is that the law provides for the possibility of hiring another doctor. This opens up the space that this doctor or doctor, over a year, two, three, working in that office, will be able to get the patient's trust very easily, that they want to continue, when the previous doctor is going to retire, that they want to be treated in doing so, let's call him a new doctor, which will then open up a much greater chance for such a doctor, that at the competition, I said, in a public competition, where the consent is ultimately given by the County Assembly, he can continue to be the holder of that office. But also, this model with the County Assembly and the City of Zagreb Assembly also points out once again, opens up the possibility that whoever worked for the last year, two, five, or 10 as an employee of the health home and wanted to go to concessions in some elections, subjective, did not pass, and some of them left Croatia for that reason. So, it will no longer be, because it will be discussed extremely publicly, and I think that such things, can't be said in Croatia, will no longer happen, in Croatia there will always be a lot of things going on, but I hope in a much smaller number, that there will be irregularities that we have seen so far. Another newspaper, which we're introducing, which is a lease, so far, the lease has been the same to everyone, regardless of whether you're at the most attractive location, in the most attractive city, or in some village of my own. So this introduces a newspaper, which is that actually, the assembly will determine the price of the rent, so somewhere it will be one lip or one kuna, in order to motivate the doctor to come here to work, and somewhere it will feel more like a number, let's leave it to the congregations, let's discuss it. Finally, we believe that this will also be one of the measures of stimulation and one of the areas where the county bodies responsible for health care will have some money, which will be able to reroute from conditionally speaking, better financial standing locations, to those less attractive to get people to work there. Now we have, you see every little bit in the media, somewhere independent of what form we're talking about in the media, where in a number of health homes or hospitals there are no specialists. The truth is that one reason is that good wages and better working conditions, which offer now numerous countries from so-called countries. Western Europe, one part of the people is being taken away, but one of the serious reasons is that no specializations have been planned. And so there are numerous departments and health homes, where for 10 years, although it was clear to everyone, that people who have an average of 55 years for 10 years will no longer be called specialization and this law confirms and obliges the county bodies, plan both the network and the number of specializations, in order to reach a level where there will be no threat at which the result could develop a lack of doctors. So it certainly can't happen, that what happened to us, that without responsibility, is not called for, and specialization is not required, such as the obligation of the county parliaments, i.e. the bodies of local self-government, to plan both one-year and three-year health care and all the plans involved. This trail, also in this law, provides for a plan of university and national hospitals. It must not happen to us in Croatia, and I'm afraid that it happened to us, in fact, that the best example is the children's hospital I often mention, so I'm using it today, on this occasion, the most common needs of the Croatian health system, and probably a much wider one is to make a national children's hospital. So that there is no one in any part of Croatia, no child for whom there will be no institutions, for which the best, who can, know and treat everyone at the highest level, will be gathered. It is the obligation of all of us, and on this trail, and this law foresees it, so that we do not have certain segments of medicine, with the departure of one individual or a certain group of specialists feeling the immersion, and this will never happen to us again, according to the proposal of this law. I said there was a problem with the duty that numerous concessionaries did not want to be on call, and there was also a problem at the local level, they did not want to be coroners or other obligations to be carried out, therefore, and now it is regulated by law and removed so that we will never again experience such an incident situation. What this law regulates, and... and we started out well, and that's that we already connected, functionally 12 hospitals, with this law going into further integration, because it's really pointless, not because someone did it badly, but because the Croatian health system and the hospital networks, they tried in times that were different on average 100-150 years ago, and it's extremely inappropriate at this time at 20, 30 km distances to have double departments, double duty, double preparedness, double equipment that is used a little bit and most importantly, it's questionable that if I'm just going to operate twice a month or you're doing it every day three times, of course you should go to whoever's doing it more and better doing what this law prevents us from happening anymore. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, our growing problem once again points out that we are on the food side getting older as it is good for people to live longer but we are also getting sicker and so seriously sick that it is impossible to worry at home and therefore this law foresees developing a network of paliatical medicine at all health homes so that people stay as close as possible to their family and should not have to go to homes 30, 50 km away where more of their closest relatives are difficult or very rarely able to reach them. What this law yet provides and I hope that we will never need again in reality because we Croats are fed up with wars, and I hope that there will be no more of them, but unfortunately in the global world, anything is possible, so these unfortunate wars, too, in this law, are predicted as necessary, as the people would say, don't God, if that evil happens, then a health care facility can be named a military hospital. One of the problems that we had and which was often in the media, especially among my colleagues, which are specializations or specialization and compensation rules, and you remember it was indeed an injustice that some people who specialize in certain institutions would not return to the contract, had to return millions, two, some amounts of money were terribly large. And then, again with some clumsy scheme of circumstances, it happened that a rule was passed that they didn't need anything, so I specializeed in some home of health, for example for Ogulin and I'm just saying I'm not going back, I'm going to go to another town in Croatia or worse. outside Croatia. We have made a rule that has now remained in the law procedure because there is no basis for the law until this law is passed, and with this law the regulation becomes current and we have settled it in a fairly fair way where there is a small bitter doctor who has no complete freedom and does not return anything, even greater bitterness of local self-government, the administration of hospitals and health homes where 250 000 kunas are not the best compensation for what they have invested and expected but I think we have achieved a fair solution because we alone will not keep people in Croatia for sanctions. The problem we've had, and now it's again current, overtime from 2012, 2013 until now, and it's going to be regulated by law or a new collective agreement, which is actually one substantively speaking of injustice to doctors that if you're doing the same thing at 12 o'clock, you'll get paid improvising, 50 kn per hour, and the same thing if you're doing at 23, then you'll get paid less. What was backwards, the lawyers interpret it as so under the collective agreement, to write it down at the expense of health care professionals, however, in the new law and collective agreement, it certainly will not be so that such failures would not be agreed upon and that we would not have misunderstandings with extremely large financial damages that are difficult to pay in one breath. With regard to public health, of course we are going to strengthen prevention, then we are going to strengthen public health activities, public health services to prevent harmful food factors, which are from the environment, which is from our bad habits that we have and so that we have as little the incidence of diseases associated with these and other forms. The law also referred to the protection of the health of workers because they are rarely exposed to inadequate and health-threatening conditions and this law defines and encourages the national register of healthcare providers, all forms of services and treatment outcomes resulting from these treatments. This law also encourages health tourism. On the one hand, we have a comparative advantage where Croatia as a tourist destination is very well developed and, on the other hand, in health tourism, we have not made the big step that we could have made towards our predisposition, and this law encourages health tourism and facilitates the development of health tourism but not to the harm of the network of existing insurance companies. So everything agreed in such health institutions throughout Croatia will still have to remain available to HZZO insurance companies. And finally, we managed to define this already mentioned everything that is in line with the Labour Act, with overtime, with duty, preparedness, etc. which has actually created certain problems for patients and for us who are employees of the health system. So, in the end, I'm going to repeat, at no point in time until the bill came up, we didn't advocate anything as a hard category that must be or we shut ourselves in any frames, but we maximumly opened up to all the entities of space as we have now reopened it in an even more sensitive mandatory health insurance, which is why the Mandatory Health Insurance Act will cause even more debates. So there were certainly no parties here, no ideologies, no groups. Here was the Croatian people and the health of the Croatian man and I believe that you, too, will vote in favour of this law or add something that may be even better and more useful. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91234	Thank you, too. You have 18 replicas corresponding to more or less half of the representatives present. The first line has Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91235	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, you, as a doctor and minister, have carefully chosen every word you have spoken. I here as a representative, as first of all a patient tomorrow and my life can be in your hands tomorrow, I must also choose the words to which I will say what I intend. Namely, when you say that this is about "a barrel in a glass of water" I can understand it if you are leaving this position that certain stakeholders are looking for something, so you want to prevent it. However, we in primary health care do not have sufficient number of doctors. That's the way it is in my county, and it's probably the same in other counties. Today we have young doctors, let's say that if 300 of them finish studying medicine, 50 of them go to specialization. These 250 have nothing to do with this country. You have to do everything you can to motivate these young people to stay here. I don't think this bill goes that way. It will be devastating if these people leave this country because it depends on the health of this people and this nation as you yourself have said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91236	Time, Mr. Sagar. Would you like to answer that? Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91237	Thank you very much for your observation and concern that the doctors stay. But we've just run ourselves by where we're on one side that I didn't really point out that those who work know more that they're paid more regardless of whether they're in a hospital or in a health home. We also had in mind that those who now work in a health care home for 7 and a half thousand get paid 13, 15, 19 depending on how many people they work. So we had in mind, and we also had this incentive of local self-government if you want these rents or leases to cross over to keep those people. And that is not the problem, what you are, I share your concern to remain not only doctors, but to remain all Croats in Croatia and we should all work on this trail. And I welcome what you stress that we need to stimulate people to stay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91238	The second line has Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91239	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this bill should have the key and main backbone devoted to primary health care which is a matter of national security and we all know that it is a health system base and that it can solve and can be 70% of all problems. The Republic of Croatia's primary health care is becoming increasingly undercover. You have included people from primary health care in your club to write this bill. In a football dictionary they were told until the extensions you adopted were their proposals. What happened in the extensions? Have you and the impression that you have really been subjected to political pressures from the level of county, urban and municipal to preserve this political influence and that primary protection remains as it is, and it is threatened and, please, explain to us and to the public what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91240	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr. Minister Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91241	Well, I've actually said it many times, my dear professor. I can do anything, but I can't be influenced and there's no one who can put pressure on me. And so all these so-called. The verbal forms were really nothing, and as far as the creation itself was concerned, I said so at the outset. He was emerging extremely transparently, openly. I didn't do anything at first, in the middle or at the end until the very end, and I wasn't against it, but in the end, we just eventually summed up respecting everyone without prejudice, which would be the most appropriate and acceptable thing for the great majority at this point. So neither was there pressure on me, nor could there be pressure on me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91242	The third replica has a Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91243	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, on more than one occasion, there have been speeches on the reduction of the number of health institutions. So, we all agree that there are very many institutions, very many agencies in the Republic of Croatia and my personal opinion is that Croatia does not need 6 state health institutions. Have you considered reducing the number of institutions specifically, namely the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Antidoping, the Croatian Institute for Telemedicine? Is it really necessary for them to be independent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91244	Mr. Kujundzic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91245	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. You're well analyzed, and in fact these institutions were created in other times when it seemed to people and maybe it was ideal then, like hospitals, and health homes, so we're going to go down and now we already have a plan and I could say now, but I don't think it's the place before some other procedures go through, but we're working on that trail and there's going to be a very reduced number of such institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91246	Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91247	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministers, you spoke very extensively in your presentation about the new Health Protection Act. But somehow they taught me that when you go and you want to show something as a reform, then you need to say in one or two sentences what it is. If you were asked or I asked you to say in one minute what is the essence of this law, what reform does this law bring, what is this newspaper, what would it be? So please try to tell us in one minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91248	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91249	And actually now it's like you're asking me to translate a paper into a single sentence. An abstract like that doesn't go so fast. Depending on what you're interested in. So, this law basically preserves the availability of everyone in Croatia and quality, it was the basic intensities of this law on the one hand and on the other hand to stimulate employees in the Croatian healthcare system to stay in Croatia. And we can open all of this any way you want and however you want, and later, whatever you want to ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91250	Thank you very much. We will now interrupt the debate in order to move on the basis of the new Rules of Procedure to applications for a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives or you popular pauses. We exhausted a list of speakers who were looking for breaks on behalf of their clubs and now a brief notice before we proceed. After we discuss this item of the agenda, we will discuss the report of the mandated immunity commission. And after that, as we have already announced, yesterday, we will move on to a statement on amendments to the final law amending and supplementing the House Rental Act. So first, we'll end this, then, a mandated immunity commission report. And then, after that, the Declaration on Amendments, on the final proposal for a law on renting apartments. Now let's move on with, let's move on with the replicas. Five replicas, Mrs. Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91252	I thank the chairman. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. In your opening statement, you said well that this law applies to everything, and you certainly thought about all the participants of the health system and those on their backs carrying the entire system of health care and their patients. You mentioned a reward system, which I am gradually supporting, because I know that the vast majority of my colleagues are doing really more than they need to do. Of course, it works to make our patients as good as possible and to provide them with better health care. But there is now one question, how it will be implemented, how it will be worth it to them, because we know very well that the vast majority of our hospitals are in large debt and minuses. I believe that some health homes, which do positive work, will be much easier to realise, and we know that some of our home doctors, who are employed in primary health care in the same day, are doing business in three locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91253	Time. Answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91254	Thank you very much. So, there are always two questions, how do we know who works and how works, so I often say, the job of a doctor is easier to measure than the work of a heavy, ceramic or mechanic. So it's easy to measure, and we all know who to operate on or something else we wouldn't. And as far as rewarding is concerned, it will be a special government regulation, and it will be arranged both in terms of finances and in terms of the performance of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91255	Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91256	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, one of the goals must be solidarity, comprehensive, all of them equal access to health care, and that we live in Croatia for an average of 2 years without increasing the cost of participation and adequate insurance. Therefore, it is a pity that, at the same time, we do not have the Health Insurance Act, in order to see how part of what you plan to implement can actually happen in reality. And of course, the key question is the question of the remains of young experts in Croatia, sisters, doctors and my question to you, why don't you urgently solve the problem of medical laboratory diagnostics who can't get a job in Croatia, and at the same time offer you a job, for example. at respected clinics in Dublin, Ireland.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91257	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91258	Thank you very much for your enquiries, Mr. Jovanovic, about the magistrates, it's actually a problem that you should have solved when you sent these people to that study, you didn't define, you didn't coordinate the definitions in Croatia and you didn't recognize the labour market, and now we're trying to solve it. We have solved the internship, and now with the Ministry of Science, we will need to solve this problem and this problem for the future, and all the problems we have encountered cannot be solved so quickly and we ourselves are trying as little problems as possible to produce and leave behind.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91259	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91260	Dear Minister, in your debate, you mentioned the actual responsibility of the county to which you are transferring the County Assembly, so I will inform you that we have now had a point at which the county assembly discussed the differences between homes of health. One home of health that allowed its doctors to go to concessions and others they did not allow. In this way, in fact, this whole debate will no longer be worth it as such but must be done under this law, they must apply. However, the key question is what will happen to those hospitals in the depressed areas, in areas of no interest. There is no interest in a doctor who should be in a home of health, let alone someone who wants to be a concessionist. Is it possible at all to ensure that financial balancing in such a way that one who may have less to do but actually has areas in which less qualified may progress, to ensure the appropriate income that deserves it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91261	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91262	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Panenic, you pointed to a painful point that plagues Croatian healthcare, or that tortures us as a whole. On this trail we have indeed tried to solve this problem or at least partially resolve it, which is that we are legally foreseen that in such areas one doctor may have two or more offices that are actually in the formal-right status of his as many patients as possible and thus could earn more. On the other hand, we thought with mobile offices covered such a problem and on the third hand we leave room for local self-government in order to make up for these people to have more motives to go to such areas but really this is a serious problem that cannot be solved by law at the state level, so it must be an integrated, joint job, both the government and the entire state and local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Strenja-Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91264	Dear Minister, we were at a meeting where you stated that a mistake was made in law by abolishing the traineeship and you promised it would still be in the final version of the law. Elimination of the doctor’s traineeship is not only a threat to doctors who go from education to the world of work, endangers all our patients. The students of all 4 medical schools 98% of them are praying and the survey has declared that they continue their traineeship and that is certainly what our patients are looking for. Please state whether doctors will have a traineeship or go directly to Brač after school in a tourist hospital, in Slavonia to a village where the question is what other than a telephone line will have to do with a superior service or someone who can give advice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91265	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91266	Thank you, well-respected representative Linic Strenja. Yeah, that's one of the problems, and I'm not usually inclined to throw mud at the predecessors or the problems. I always say, everything my predecessors have done well, I'm very happy to continue and say that they started it, and this is one problem that we... So we ourselves, when we negotiated with the EU, agreed, did not force us to the EU, we agreed that the next generation, the next year, which will end in 2019, will not go to the internship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you did well to point out, one significant number of young students, 4 and 5, 6 years old and young doctors, thinks they should have a certain period of time, we have solved this, or the proposal is not yet fixed, and we will solve it in a way that all the same day they end, the competition will be constantly open and will start with a working relationship in which they will during 6 months. the ability to pass certain knowledge practical that they needed and after 6 months. will be able to apply for specializations so that we believe that we will also resolve it for the benefit of young doctors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91267	Thank you. Mrs. Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91268	Mr. Minister, at the beginning of the term of office, you said that the health system is excellent and that he doesn't really need major procedures. And this law right here confirms your statement. The law goes hand in hand with another statement of yours, which is, I've come to work but I won't be sad if I don't. I'm glad to see you smiled, more beautiful than you're scrawny but expectations from the public about the hospital system, for example. And the problems that the hospital system has been really big, you're a man who knows the hospital system, you run Dubrava Hospital, she's dealt with a minus, but you need to be honest and say that there's been some objective reasons, a great cold drive and great overhead, but you have experience, so you're expected to give yourself as a man in the hospital system a little bit more effort and try to solve the problems that we have in the hospital system. We've also done unpopular moves, we've connected hospitals, you've come to power and hospitals have separated thanks to your HDZ powers. Why? Why, Minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91269	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91270	Thank you very much, Madam Representative Jerkovic. As far as I'm concerned, I won't be sorry if I'm not a minister because I made more money and lived better when I wasn't a minister and now I can go to Croatia and any hospital in the world, they'd take me to work for these certain skills I have. But on this trail, in fact, it's not just me, take Lancet, Lancet is the world's oldest and oldest medical magazine, and you will see that Croatian medicine is of the highest quality among 15% of the best in the world. Besides football, something else, I don't know where we're still so good, but that doesn't mean we don't have a lot of problems, a lot of difficulties, and we have to deal with them no matter how much experience any of us have, and of course those who know it, who have passed both the country and the world, they can easily argue with arguments and not so casually. It is not easy to change, so we have problems but indeed Croatian medicine is very envious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91271	Thank you very much. Mr. Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91272	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates. I can tell you that this bill is not going in the right direction. He's heading towards privatisation, heading towards centralization. That this is how this paper actually shows in your law where the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints one of the members of the Governing Councils in health institutions, I think it's a very bad message sent to the founders. Given the short time I have, I will also look back at Article 115, which makes it impossible for emergency medicine to work in special hospitals. I think it's one bad message too. For which reason, since I come from Krapina-Zagorje County, precisely thanks to the emergency medicine that exists at Krapina Toplice Special Hospital, many human lives have been saved. This is the first reading of the law correct it until the second reading of the law, and do not make it impossible for emergency medicine services that are extremely important, I repeat once again to save people's lives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91273	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91274	Look, now we've entered a little rope into medicine and I'm afraid don't be angry that you don't understand enough. These lives are not saved because they exist formally or do not exist, they are saved thanks to their skills and what that hospital has. In fact, there is a Croatian health system and public health care. Because in fact, that would be possible if the E.R. went and the E.R. made it very easy to enter foreign capital and enter into a network of hospitals, which then opens up very serious problems if you want we can do it later because we don't allow seconds here. So it's a lot more layered and why it's so set up. So, it is not if we let go and now they appear in Croatia very serious investors in medicine that would build hospitals, general hospitals would build in Croatia, and that would lead at this stage to the threat of the Croatian public health system and the hospital network.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91275	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91276	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you said in your presentation and in this Bill proposal there is a provision that we all welcome together and consider extremely important, the possibility of rewarding workers, health professionals for the average results of the work. I think that this is the only way we can stimulate good healthcare workers and those who have above average results and predecessors by their own quality and quantity to keep in the Republic of Croatia. However, what would be extremely important is to provide for these resources in the state budget. We know that this Bill of Law also states that loss coverage is the responsibility of founders and must be foreseen in their means, which means for county hospitals in county budgets. I fear the hospital's responsibility is met by the Director and the Board of Directors and the Administrative Board, and the founders also resort to non-payment of such fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91277	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91278	Thank you very much for asking. Of course, there is a concern that will need to be made by a regulation. But now that you've opened up, and I'm going to answer you in part because I'm actually staying that part, because my time is up. Why does the government propose to go to one member, which is now certain hospitals that are formal county property, improperly spending a lot and investing etc. and open up some activities for which they have no conditions, and we can't do anything from the level of the Ministry, the Government except fight how to repay their debts. And I will also personally fight as a minister to make it settled in the regulation that there is no money for it, money must be found, because although this 750 euros per capita is not enough, but I think for things and like these forms we must find them because otherwise we will not be able to keep people in Croatia. We're gonna lose the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91279	Thank you. Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the minister and your associates. Here's what I'd like to thank you for equating doctors who work on islands, who have a small number of patients, who don't have headtains with these who are here and there can certainly be a lot of local self-government help. And I want to ask, I haven't noticed, if there's any chance that there might be an example. The cities are the founders of health homes? Here is a problem in the Split-Dalmatia and Makarska that wants its home of health, I think it should allow them by law with the permission of the County Assembly to establish their home of health if they have the means and let them have a young standard. And secondly, I haven't noticed, there may be a major problem here, a radiologist that we can't and which we don't have on the market, and to allow hospital radiologists that they can go to Vrgorac on Saturday or afternoon, to the island and work in a health home on these home health devices. Because we have a problem I don't know by regulation you'll fix it that the radiologist we're studying in the health care home he goes to the hospital. It's not the point of compensation that he gives home health 250 thousand kunas again we don't have a radiologist. So there needs to find some formula solution and stimulate them, let hospital specialists that can go to a home of health on their own time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91281	Thank you. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91282	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I see, I recognize the problems that are really living down there, the problems that are happening down there. There is no obstacle to any home, or municipality being separated from its home of health that they were now, so we have a difference in Croatia. Somewhere there is only one such as Split-Dalmatia County, in others there is only a little more south,... No, and it can be and so it's settled so it's not a problem if the Macarans want to stand out. [[STAMMERING INDISTINCTLY]] As far as radiologists are concerned, the problem on one hand is big because we didn't plan enough and there wasn't enough specialization to be given before. There are now a large number of specialists on the one hand, on the other hand there is something positive about a radiologist, radiologists can sit in Zagreb or somewhere else, and do most of this now allows us to do this telemedicine. But in no way does this mean that there is a legal space for people in hospitals to encourage this to go towards the patient and this is an emphasis that health homes will organise a specialist consular activity including radiology.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91283	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91284	Thank you. Minister, I'm gonna get a hold of you. I didn't get it right. So they can be independent homes of health, but they can't be founders of local self-government? So he's always the founder of the county if this law doesn't mean otherwise. The fact is that Split-Dalmatia County is the largest county. The fact is that we have a home of health and the fact is that women of example die in the Sinj House of Health waiting in line to get to the breast ultrasound. It's a system that worked like that and if you don't change it by this law, then this law is in vain. In vain of the fact that doctors are leaving this home of health because of the fact that the counties of the decentralised means of even development brakes in your Imotskoma, in Makarska, Vrgorec, in Sinj, they did not develop the homes of health evenly, but they engulfed officials in the home health system and paid them for the damages of specialists, radiologists and these are the largest pests, mainly in Split-Dalmatia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91285	Thank you. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91286	Well, I don't think by going into the county we're talking about, it's really a big problem that some serious sick people aren't waiting for because of the waiting list. Therefore, with the priority lists, we have decided that patients who have a suspicion of serious illness within 3 days can and must receive a review of the competent specialist, and within 15 days all diagnostic and therapeutic procedures. We solved that with the priority lists. And as for Imotsky himself, Makarska or we could have gone north, I really think it takes more than good will and just a handful of money more when it comes to ultrasounds, machines exist. It is only a few hundred kunas to give one of the radiologists from Split to come once a week to do another 20, 30 ultrasounds. I think a lot of times on things that we can easily solve, a lot of things we can fix.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91287	Mr. Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, here is a clue to the question of colleagues Sanader and colleagues Bulja, I would like to ask specifically about articles 102 to 106 of the Law on the issue of home health. As a minister, we swore to guard the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Article 5 states that in the Republic of Croatia the laws must be in accordance with the Constitution and then we will open Article 135. The Constitution which states: “The units of local self-government carry out the tasks of local detours and importance and primary health care, and units of local and regional self-government and counties carry out tasks of regional importance, among other things, health care and the planning of a network of institutions.” Therefore, the legal solution is not in accordance with Article 135. The Constitution, so I would like to hear from you the way you intend to reconcile this legislative proposal with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91289	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91290	And I'm not sure there's a contradiction between here, but we'll check it out from the legal point of view. I really can't give a legal interpretation. It's a lot easier for me to answer medical questions, but I'll check. It seems to me that what you said there's no contradiction here. But I'll check with my law experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91291	Mr. Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91292	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, I would refer to the problem that arose at the University of Osijek is related to the Master's degree in medical-laboratory diagnostics where a significant number of young people have found themselves in a situation that their diploma or profession is not regulated as an occupation. And I'm very aware that you're not the one responsible for this situation that they've been in. Individuals who are responsible sit here today in the Parliament and promote themselves to the greatest advocates of these young people. But you are one of those who can solve this problem. I am therefore interested, since Article 30 contains laboratory and laboratory diagnostics, later in the text and the masters of biochemistry. I'm just curious about whether there's any possibility of a good step forward involving medical-laboratory diagnostics in this text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91293	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91294	An apology. The change of the law on regulated professions will be resolved, but it will be decided that in the future we no longer have to invent symbolically any colleges, graduate studies, postgraduate studies. Good money gets killed. Many would never become university teachers because they had no references, but they invented such places with positions where they were and then they led the children astray, they opened up perspectives for them, and now they see what experts from the Ministry of Science and Health are doing now when compared to those studies then they see that there was actually a lot to teach those children in order to have certain competences on one hand. And on the other hand, it was meant to open up, of course, such a space in the law. But we'll figure it out, or we'll figure it out. They can all get internships and they can all get a job now but they're three years old. And for the future, it's certainly not going to happen to us anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91295	Mr. Lobster.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91296	Dear Minister, it seems to me that you did not look around you and see that the countries in the European Union that went to privatise primary health care are returning back to the model that we have in Croatia long ago, which is a public system according to the Andrija Printar model. What you have now tried to do is one salad of this and inside you have put the possibility to stay in the home of health, but to make up for the difference between their salary and the wages of concessionaries for people who work in a home of health to doctors. The only way to do that is to make them equal financially, to pay the same for those who are concessionaries and those who are in a home of health. And that's the only way you're going to correct the injustice that is, because people who are concessionaries and those who are home doctors do the same job, they get money from the same provider. Therefore, we should have the same salary. You haven't solved anything with this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91297	Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91298	Mr. Mršić, with your terminology, you've seen it more than once, so I said I'll talk to you in the Assembly when I look you in the eye. So, the early bird has passed the time for the Croats. It's been a while. So, we promote and advocate to pay those who know and work and have results, and that's what this Law is about, and that's what we're going to insist on, and this here for getting points, that's not what we're interested in. We are interested in keeping Croatian doctors in Croatia and sisters on one side. On the other hand, to provide a top-notch health care service, and day-to-day political points are of no interest to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91299	Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91300	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates. And you mentioned in your discussion, in your presentation of the outcomes of the treatment. According to the European Health Consumer Index in 2017, there was a deterioration in the assessment of the outcome of treatment. In fact, the Republic of Croatia is in a group of countries that are marked red, and there is a rating of the mountain has been obtained, worse than we have received Albania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Macedonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Montenegro, Poland, Romania and Serbia. What is written and what should be done, which are significant improvements, is that there should be a faster reduction in incidence and mortality than cardiovascular diseases, reduction in cancer mortality. Now survival is less than 50%. The reduction in the incidence of MRSA infection is now greater than 50% and improvement is recommended in the area of reducing infant mortality. What does this Law actually do to improve the outcome of treatment?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91301	Time, Mrs. Alfirev. Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91302	Thank you very much. Otherwise, while we are already on the Law of Medicine, in science, in the profession, the source is always quoted. The source you have not quoted, so I'll be glad if you show me the source afterwards, there are sources that have weight, credibility, and there are those that are used one way or another. You're right. We need to strive, fix all these parameters that you've listed, even though they're not what you've shown them. But no matter what they are, better ones have to, and that's what we have to strive to do. However, this is not regulated in this Law. So there are other acts that will be regulated among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91303	And at the end of the day, Mrs. Rostice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91304	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister. First, I commend the Health Protection Act, and I am sorry that there are polemics around it in public space, and it would be good for those who create them to listen in detail, read and look at it. We mentioned doctors going out. Here is a colleague, Žagar, but in this topic we don't mention people who go outside and we don't talk when we write about their examples that they can make better money out there, they can buy a better car, but they can't even find nearly the money that makes a better doctor and get better basic health care. I would therefore like to commend in this Law that certain powers are delegated, such as the percentage of public and private health care in regional self-government, the duty on emergency situations that are prescribed for all and what I would like most to praise is that this Law will be able to provide quality care in those settlements that are simply not available, are inaccessible, which have a small number and that of the old population and for which young families leave them, which are mobile offices. I also see these examples in areas where I come from. So in Policica, Žribini, Slivna, so it's important to say the good side of this law this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91305	Time. Thank you very much. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91306	I thank you, and I also invite everyone here present through you all others who will be participating in the creation of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91307	Thank you very much. Now will the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first one is in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91308	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. At the very beginning, you said this was the Law concerning all citizens and citizens of the city of Zagreb. On 1 January 2019, there will be 10 years since the adoption of the old Health Protection Act, which has experienced 10 amendments. The existing amendments, i.e. the current draft Health Protection Act, have a lot of news and it is in line with the fundamental objective of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme, which aims to provide such a health system that will be modern and financially sustainable, which will provide healthcare to citizens, as well as to ensure quality and accessible healthcare in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Two points before the Health Protection Act were the amendments and additions of the Drug Act again to the purpose of financial stability, the sustainability of the health system which in each country, as well as in the Republic of Croatia, has certain challenges to be addressed. Somehow it seemed the most media presence of this bill. It was about primary health care. Some said they were promised something, so they were denied it. This is only the first reading, and I'm sure there will be significant changes between the first and second readings until the adoption. But definitely these changes want to strengthen primary health care, improve healthcare facilities in the light of the doctor's departure to other EU countries The Croatian Health System faces a lack of doctors and should definitely consider that a certain number of doctors in the emergency medical system are experiencing certain changes in this emergency medical system because very few countries, especially in the European Union where emergency doctors are in the car and as such participate in the healthcare system. The home of health has its own tradition, the distinguished representative Mrsic spoke about Dr. The press and these amendments to the law seek to strengthen the organisational and co-ordinated role as a fundamental holder of health care at the level of primary health care. What was controversial, therefore, is the question that in every primary health care activity there will be 25% of the offices that will be owned by the county, or the City of Zagreb. Some have commented that it is related to only one unit of local self-government. Here I would like to stress that the local self-government unit has great powers in the matter of health care and it should take responsibility in certain segments which is possible from an example of where different fees will be for the use of space, but if a certain unit of local self-government is willing to have a doctor then she can pay that doctor that he has a decent salary, that he is motivated to leave some major county centre or capital of the Republic of Croatia so that these are the same opportunities allowed under this law. The biggest problem is that unlike hospital healthcare, there is no such difference in salary if we exclude the number of on-calls between one gastroenterology specialist in Zagreb or in Sibenik, while on the other hand we have a problem here that the two doctors of family medicine are doors to doors, and the differences are large on receiving and it is one of the reactions that is on the one hand human whether it is possible that the distinguished representative Mrsic said it is equal. I don't think that's the best model for that to lead to some old model of the ravine, but here's the thing to think about anyway. What I would like to point out about health care homes is, in particular, strengthening the polyclinical specialist consular health care, and there is, of course, the possibility that doctors working within the hospital health care system in so far as they meet a number of reviews that meet certain criteria, I think there is a possibility that they can work in the afternoons within their health homes and thus can significantly reduce waiting lists. As far as novelty is concerned, there is certainly a question of palitative concern that is further strengthened by this law. A particular issue of palitative care within primary health care, in addition, mobile teams of palitative care, palitative care stationers. There have been talks about how the hospice in the context of this health care law will be perceived, there is a question of overlapping social care institutions with institutions, with health institutions, and also this law, respectively, makes it possible to amend this law. What is also new, therefore, is that healthcare professionals who carry out private practice activities can accept the working relationship of a healthcare professional of the same profession, which then opens up the possibility especially after the retirement of that healthcare professional who has a private office. And also that healthcare professionals can carry out activities in private practice on a team with one or more healthcare professionals or non-healthy mid-practice workers and first-graders. As far as hospital healthcare is concerned, it is guided by the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of functional integration. As you mentioned the functional merger of certain hospitals is already under way, but here I would point out that I work in hospital health care in the city of Zagreb there are a lot of possibilities for savings, so let's say at this point there are 6 departments of otorinolaringology in the city of Zagreb that are on duty and this can again be rationalised with significant savings, since we know that the incomes received by healthcare professionals are an important part of the total budget that the hospital has. So the organisation of the network of duty is something that can certainly contribute to the rationalization of the system and to the better exploitation of the potential of both human and hospital devices. And also, let's say transplant medicine is something that the Croatian health system is rightly proud of. Whether there are two transplant centres dealing with heart transplants in the Republic of Croatia in the city of Zagreb. Management of human potential is a very important item rewarding system for over the average results of workers who provide health care is a possibility but again a question in which way, this is mentioned by counterpart Juričev Martinchev. And the issue of additional funds that will be clearly needed to ensure that this award system can be implemented. National plan for specialist training of healthcare professionals for five years. What is present in certain European Union countries is this national plan, it is based on a proposal from representative bodies, but it is not studied by hospitals, but the Ministry sets out, for example, 20 specializations from cardiology for the Republic of Croatia and then specialisation is done by a credit system and on the basis of this credit system of colleagues who end up specialising in cardiology go to certain health institutions throughout a particular country. Public health. Therefore, what I would like to mention is a controversial, concrete link to Article 69 which specifies where private practice cannot be carried out for the following activities. I have already mentioned this, the opiate substitution therapy should, in my opinion, be indicated in what cannot be done in private practice. Therefore, given the potential abuse of the experience of most European Union countries, it is certainly that opiate substitution therapy remains in the public health system. Public health, of course, plays a primary role in strengthening preventive healthcare at all levels in order to reduce certain financial resources that certain institutions must give. For example, a certain number of reviews have been reduced, so the issue of a sanitary book that is likely to be eliminated in the perspective, as in most European Union countries, has led to a reduction in the budget of public health institutions. It seems to me that doctors working in the Public Health Service system have the lowest salary in the relationship with other doctors. They are not so loud, but definitely the role of the ministry, the role of national level is to strengthen the public health system, as preventive programmes are thus strengthened. However, as you have repeatedly mentioned, it is not good to do anything. Public Health Services play a primary role in health enlightenment, disease prevention, health promotion and in this context should be considered for this part of the county public health care institutions where they are practically listed as being able to treat all mental disorders. I think it should be limited, therefore, to prevention of mental health and exclusively outpatient treatment of addiction. Namely, because this is an extra-patient treatment of addiction is an integral part of the preventive programme, which is a Croatian model that is very effective and effective at the moment so that there is no need for this part to be removed from the system of mental health services and prevention of extra-patient treatment of addiction. But there's no need because then it's unfair competition. Namely, it is known that within the Institute of Public Health in a different way they are funded and then you have a situation in fact that a person who has some kind of mental disorder can come to the Institute of Public Health without a manual, unlike psychiatric offices in the framework of health homes or in the framework of the polyclinical services of hospitals. Health tourism, therefore providing health services has already been spoken about, and I think Croatia has great potential not only for the issue of spa resorts, the issue of continental spa resorts, but there are very, very many opportunities where Croatia has to show what with its experts and provide adequate health services to those who need it. In the end, there was already more talk about the competence between public and private. Some will say that those services that are in the private sector are better, that they are better quality, that it is more rational to manage financial resources. You'd agree that's the case most of the time. However, here we are talking about the Croatian health system and this ratio is very difficult in everything, so find a healthy balance here, find a golden environment and a ratio between public and private. I think it's right in this bill of law. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the draft health protection bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91309	Thank you, too. Mrs. Ines Strenja-Linić in front of the Independent List Bridges Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome the minister with his associates and representatives. So my basic message today is that preserving public health means maintaining health care in Croatia and stabilising the financial system is also a health system. So it's all public health. The one who fights for a better position is the one who carries that health system on his back and the one who is fighting for the financial sustainability of that same system, who is also fighting for the preservation of public health as we know it today. So we expected a European law that promotes the availability of modern health care, but the opportunity was missed to do what could and should have been done. Because this is the basic health care law. We have before us a law that is bad because it did not answer some key questions that were in front of this health administration. I will repeat the words of a professor who, commenting on health reform worldwide, has concluded that if a system of health spending is not limited that such a system will strangle all other activities such as education, culture, social and science. Because the enormous growth in health costs dictates the development of science primarily in the pharmaceutical industry and the development of new medical equipment aids because, after space technology, new discoveries are first applied in health care. So the essence that we should have read from this law was, among other things, how we're going to solve the hospital system, the hospital system that we know is the biggest consumer within our health system. And how we're going to solve the primary health care that could have helped to get rid of the expensive hospital system, which means it's a real gay cyper. Furthermore, the problem of organisation of the system is also related to the lack of protocol. We're talking about rewarding the best employees, and the bottom line is that we don't have any weather-cadrovic norms on which to reward them, and it can't be solved by one rule that we say someone will get 10% more pay, because eventually it will just depend on your boss again. Protocols further, the real medical protocols reduce the number of instructions that again cost because behind this manual is the requirement to do a certain search, which are diagnostic tests such as CT, magnetic resonance and everything that actually collects that system as well as medicines. So there's a certain amount of money in health care that we have. This system does not produce but our system does not produce at this time the level of outcomes which could show clear indications of the state of health of our people. There are good sides to this law. Of course, there are good sides. I speak primarily of what should change until the second reading. It's good that a national specialization plan is finally in place, but we don't know how many years it's going to be, whether it's in one year or five years. It is good to finally make a distinction between certain hospitals and we will finally have university hospitals and we will have one national hospital that Croatia deserves. We're also further working on the palitative concerns, we haven't exactly prescribed hospices, but hopefully it will follow in further acts that will come out of this law. Health tourism enters in one way that is quite satisfactory, we know how much growing income is potential that we can make in our country, but my comments on this law would be: So this time health care professionals who are holders of primary health care, so family medicine doctors turned out to be big losers. The final draft of the Health Protection Act shows that it differs significantly from the one that passed the public debate, which was put into the consultation, so it is not within the working group, so that what it would look like and what it would look like, but was packaged up as such, sent to consult and then discussed. It is evident that politics has done its part and re-created fate to the most important stakeholders of the health system. So such a policy will have devastating consequences in the long run. In the last 5 years I have to tell you that more than 600 doctors have left Croatia, more than 1200 have collected all the necessary documentation to leave, and we just wanted to leave family medicine doctors with freedom of choice, nothing more. No citizen of this country would have cost any more if he went to his family medicine doctor who would have been satisfied with the status he received, which stems from this law. So it was a great opportunity and a measure to increase the interest in specialising in family medicine and to in some way enable these doctors to work more satisfactorily in those rural and deprived areas. For the past 2 decades, more than 70% of primary healthcare doctors have been concessioned in private offices, and in the next 5 to 10 years 1000 of such doctors will retire. All these offices return to health homes after closing, and then in health care homes these charts and these patients who have been in the same office for years, meaning from childhood to age and death, these charts will then be divided within several offices, most likely not in the same infirmary and come back in some way patients will be scattered inside more doctors and it is not any continuity that family doctors actually warn and call. If one normal sequence and transfer of offices is not enabled, a significant deficit of primary healthcare professionals will be created. So the transfer of practice is not any sale of offices which tried to speak in the media, it's just the continuity of practice and moving on, which is actually just the benefit of the health system. 25% of doctors under the health care directive specifically mean that the county, i.e. local policy, will determine which doctor may or should not go into private practice, which is not appropriate. Countys are political bodies, you all know that. Another problem is the retention of young doctors and specialists to whom such a policy is acting demotively and restrictively. If there are already more than 500 primary health care teams missing from the medical system, this means that there are currently 41 pediatricians missing and as many gynecologists missing, in 3 years 490 family medical doctors will retire. These are all numbers that may mean nothing to you, but that means that unless we have an adequate replacement in those offices, they won't have anyone to work for a few years. So we expected at least a minimal improvement for doctors in primary health care. That's what we didn't get, and they were kind of silenced, they were involved in the task force, they were fooled that this law would look different, and that maybe even in the first part they weren't loud, now they got a little louder. But let me conclude about family medicine. I hope there will be room for discussion to do something in this direction in the final draft of the law. So the law should also have resolved that our Agency for Accreditation and Quality should finally live and that we have the right accreditation and categorization of hospitals. In this case, the hospital system was modern and would not be missed to clearly define both the status of hospitals and their ownership. Human resources need to be updated strategic plan for human resources development in health 2015/20. because you need to know that the average age of a healthcare professional in Croatia is 49.5 years, which is almost 6 years more than in '95. By 2025, even half of the existing healthcare workers in the EU will be retired and 11.6 million jobs will be opened, more than in another sector. So open nearly 12 million jobs in Europe that you expect doctors here to stay working for 7 and a half thousand kuna, I don't think. So much for resources. It's the same with nurses, so we especially stress that in a rule that the minister says will be about rewarding, that special care is taken for nurses because they are part of the team. The bill also did not define the doctor’s overtime. So doctors, you need to know that last year they did three and a half million overtime hours, that means there aren't enough of them, but those who worked more than allowed were misrepresented, that's something that was absolutely inadmissible. Since I don't have much time, I'm just going to go through a few articles, and this is to come back again means traineeship. Will those six months be enough? And we believe that this should have been defined as one second and that, after that second, the minister signes with the previous opinion of the competent chambers that this doctor can take the state exam. Therefore, the secondary programme should necessarily contain 9 months of emergency medical and primary health care programmes and 3 months of the electoral programme. So, in some ways, this doctor is directed to a specialization that he would like to take later. I'd like to get attached to the article. 185, which speaks of requests for a solution to the recognition of specialisation or rope specialisation. This is because it has been a problem in Croatia for years and needs to be solved. Therefore, the article states that the Ministry can recognise the specialisation carried out abroad by a healthcare professional in accordance with the law governing regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications. Therefore, the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications knows the competent authority as a resolver in all articles governing the subject matter. On the basis of the applicable Law on the recognition of foreign trainings, specialised training carried out abroad, as well as the conduct of expert examinations for candidates in the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, the Ministry shall carry out the procedures for the recognition of foreign education qualifications by competent chambers in health care. This Proposal for a Law again sets out the procedures for the division of the competences of the Ministry and the Chamber. That's not good. And that's why your actions last for years. The division of jurisdiction between the Ministry and the Chamber extends procedures and ultimately reduces the chance of increasing the doctor who will come and other healthcare professionals who will come to work in our system. So I believe that unifying procedures in one solution, in the resolutionist, means in the health chambers would significantly speed up the process and increase the prospects of candidates for rapid performance and work in our health system. And I'd like to go back to making up for the specialization work and all those young doctors who are under this new law at last, and the regulation that they have to pay for the compensation means an additional compensation in the amount of one budget base per month of the contracted labour obligation after the completion of the specialization. We find it scandalous to introduce criminal provisions in the process of professional training through the flat-rate amounts of compensation and consider that an indistinguishable flat-rate in the form of additional penalties is not acceptable in a modern democratic society. And I'm also calling for a change of rank. 254. The transitional and final provisions propose to introduce a new article which explicitly prescribes the obligation of health institutions to offer specialists and specialists the conclusion of amended agreements on mutual rights and obligations in accordance with the newly established content of the contract. The Constitutional Court’s decision abolished certain provisions of the Regulation on the specialist training of doctors of medicine who are now being perfected in the legal text itself in order to remove the contested objections to the law of the established limit on the regulation of the rights of each other and the obligations of doctors from health institutions associated with specialist training. Reaction of the new legal provision on already concluded agreements on mutual rights and obligations is necessary in order to eliminate discrimination among doctors. At this point you have specialists who, some have contracts on 250 thousand kunas to return to their institutions, and some still have 900 thousand kuna. So we've cut to 4 million and 2 million, but it's still a huge difference for people who work at the same workplace. Therefore, it is necessary to remove discrimination against doctors who continue to have an obligation to pay the costs, to specialise in the contracts for each other’s rights and obligations, including the gross salary of doctors. And a little bit more about overtime. So overtime for doctors is not adequately paid. According to the Collective Treaty, it is now paid in a way that the doctor is paid only by the others who are on duty, I am not just talking about doctors, paid during the eight-hour working hours. After that, the overtime is only paid as a means to a normal doctor, a normal nurse, an instrumentator, but not as one who has all his calling and positional supplement. So, like I said, doctors do more than 250 hours, then I'll do it in my individual discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91311	I thank you for your understanding. Following on behalf of the IDS, PGS and Rijeka List is a colleague of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91312	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates. Here, today on our bench there is a new proposal for the Health Protection Act. What I want to point out immediately is that we at the IDS, PGS and RIA Club believe that as a state, we must have a Health Protection Act that will really enable our citizens to have access to and quality health care. Today we are unfortunately witnessing that in practice it is not exactly so. We all know of long waiting lists for most reviews, for lack of equipment, that is, the equipment and arrangements of our hospitals and our health homes, the lack of a doctor, and that is certainly one of the biggest, I will say, the biggest problems because it is the most rewarding profession in the Republic of Croatia. That we need more specialization, that we are witnessing that a large number of our medical personnel are going out of our country, that hospitals are in charge of both our losses and maybe that nobody mentioned the problem of public procurement that is happening right in health care, which is, I will be free to say barrel without bottom to create great losses. The new Law, which was announced, should have offered to reorganise the health care system, meet the objectives of decentralisation of health care. Today, in his opening presentation, the minister mentioned and in some ways called on local and regional self-government to take over certain obligations, and through this law we expected that decentralisation, but not only through the right of establishment to be founders and to be owners of these institutions, but also in that financial sense. We are also aware by this law that we want better quality primary health care, strengthening preventive activities, improving patient health care and better working conditions for doctors and other healthcare professionals. We want an effective system of emergency medicine, quality hospital health care, strengthening daily hospitals, improving the system of palitative care, effective management of human potential in health care, the issue of specialisation and the development of health tourism. And here we have to say that certain environments in our country right through the insurance of financial resources, through local and regional self-government, we have some above standards. But to unite this whole introduction, we can say through one sentence that our health system is in a financial, humane, organisational and infrastructure crisis. However, this proposal for a law that we now have in our first reading compared to the draft referred to in the public debate has seen major changes. We have seen that through a public debate, especially from the profession, there have been so many objections that certain dissatisfactions have been expressed that the ministry has installed certain remarks and proposals in this bill, but we still see that dissatisfaction is still present. But now I'm asking the Ministry a question, i.e. For those who wrote that law too often in the Assembly, it is we Parliamentarians who face the proposals of the law which, through public debate and through debate in the Assembly, are experiencing major changes and I am now asking the question of the seriousness and work of professional services in the state administration, i.e. In the ministries. So these changes that we have a certain percentage of positive ones where the waist has agreed that they are one step ahead, but we also have a lot of disadvantages. And now I would look at one article that caused the most, and I will say the debate, which is Article 103(3), which prescribes that the health care home must ensure that there are up to 25% of the offices in each activity. This item is causing major disagreements within the profession, namely the Croatian Chamber of Health Professionals, which points out that it opposes that proposal. They believe that each family doctor can decide on his own whether to stay in a health care facility or to conduct a direct and personal contract with HZZO. They stress that it has discriminated against the right of the doctor to choose for 20 years. This new law, according to them, should allow our doctors the right to choose. While on the other hand again in the profession of doctors representatives, I will tell the majority of home health that it is opening doors to privatization and gradual abolition of homes of health. We can agree that the health homes as they are and the organisation that exists for many years takes some reorganisation, but surely I will say that as a club of IDS, PGS and RIA we oppose a certain process of privatization and abolition of health homes. So this is what we are saying, and therefore we believe that the work and functioning of primary healthcare should not be questioned that we need to take good care of what is the best option for home health and family doctor's offices, i.e. primary health care, and therefore for our citizens who are not allowed to provide services, feel the difference whether it is a doctor who works in the office as a concessionary or works in a health home office. Is this going to equalize as the minister said by rewarding and encouraging and motivating through equalising their salaries, but then we don't need to mention the percentage anymore, so let the doctors if they have the same conditions as the concessionaries or as doctors in the home of health who have the same conditions, the same number of patients, the same chieftains, the receivings are the same, then we don't need them, I'll say two models in the public sector. Because today we have a situation where in primary health care we have two different systems, two different categories of doctors who have different levels of reception, different working conditions, different number of patients and imposing additional administrative work, which reduces the necessary time and attention for the needs of patients. Often doctors in these offices tell me that under the law that the state prescribes we became administrators, we became postmen, so the postman doesn't miss them in this country, we have extra ones, but we lack doctors and doctors instead of paying 20 minutes attention to their patient, he can work with a patient for 2 minutes, and 18 minutes he writes various papers, and there's no possibility of hiring an additional administrator. And that is why I think it is necessary to strengthen primary protection and equalise the status of all doctors in primary care in order to maintain one of the foundations of the social state, i.e. preserve the availability and quality of public health to all. This bill also offered, did not offer certain solutions, I will just mention some. So what I'm saying is, lower coefficient for doctors in health homes, although many of them are specialists and listed that... that the work of doctors in health homes is unattractive and, unfortunately, in some cases, only a passing station to go abroad or to work in some other hospital institutions which can normally affect the quality of services in health homes and I think that the issue should be resolved by another reading to make it clearer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Next, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this bill does not offer solutions to those questions from how much information I have 400 offices in which doctors are concessionaries who are 5 years to retirement. So we have already learned that in 5 years, over 400 concessionaries are going into retirement, doctors, that this is about well equipped offices of information and diagnostic infrastructure. And now the question arises as to how patients will also be transferred to another doctor after the retirement of these concessionaries and how that equipment will also be transferred to another concessionary. And I think that right now we should count on these young doctors to be educated and prepared and to be a model to stimulate them to stay in our country. Next, the question of patient processing and the administrative burden of our doctors is asked. Today, these doctors have between 90 and 120 patients on a daily basis. So let's try to put that together in a few minutes or hours, and then we'll see that it's just impossible work. We must also be aware of the chronic lack of doctors in primary health care. There are already family doctors of medicine who have contracts with HZZO but do not have a doctor. So they manage to hire retired doctors, but the same problem is those overtime hours, overtime that is limited to 250 hours, and whoever does more, then the inspection service comes and punishes them. I think through the law we need to find a lasting solution. And next, I would like to draw attention to the issue of regulation of a higher level of education of profession already regulated at a first-rate level, and it is not the right master's standard of education. First of all, it is thought of medical laboratory diagnostics workers who need to be legally regulated as it is regulated in most European countries. The necessary and announced reform of the health system with this bill certainly is not, but we expect that the proposer will remove the discrepancies that cause disagreements, above all in the ranks of the profession until the second reading. The health problems we know are great, they have to be resolved regardless of what the minister said we are also champions in this, but I think that the precisely financial business of our hospitals with losses is unfortunately not resolved and they are further increasing in a significant number of hospitals. There we have not yet offered a solution to how to settle debts and how to deal with plus. We know that there are exceptions, that there are hospitals that have solved this issue, and they are not making financial losses today, but are making revenue. Also, we still haven't adequately resolved the issue of the hospital network. Certain connections have been announced... certain departments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we can see that we don't have any steps here either. The issue of long waiting lists has been partially resolved for part of the specialist examinations, but it's sad when a patient comes to the hospital, tries to sign up and then tells him, you'll be in line in 5 or 6 months, i.e. He's already been instructed by an employee to go to a private doctor. The issue of a number of specialists and the rest of those doctors in the country. These are all issues that we need to address if we are going to talk about reforming the health system. And what I want to stress in the end, that we at the IDS, PGS and RIA Club find it important that our homes of health or primary health care must ensure that at any moment our citizens can rely on their doctor of family medicine, that this doctor takes care of them, that he will provide the doctor with working conditions to stay in their environment, which will be a guarantee that he will have a doctor who will know everything about them, thus providing the service they need. The adequate functioning of primary healthcare should not be jeopardised or questioned because it is the basis of the health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91313	Thank you, too. The next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is a debate from counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91314	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates. Here's the Health Protection Act before us. The law that caused a great public interest, we had opportunities to listen to in the media, we had opportunities to see what and how it was happening, and now there are several topics, or several stories. Absolutely health care at national level is extremely important. It is important to satisfy in a certain way the interests of patients who actually want to get a service as soon as possible, want to get a quality service, but of course the interests of those who provide it. And now that you're reading a little bit of the material we have, then you can read the following in the materials. That the desire is to get a modern and financially sustainable law. And then, when you read Chapter III, the evaluations and sources of the resources necessary for the implementation of the Law, all the activities foreseen by the proposed Law are the means provided for in the implementation of the applicable Health Protection Act. That means, in the context of existing financial opportunities, we go with the new Law. The question is, how? The question of how is that possible? There is another question that is common with us, which is that every minister wants to leave behind a monument in a certain way, and every minister thinks that when he makes a new law, he will leave behind a monument and talk about it further. Well, it shouldn't always be like that. Somehow, when you access any business, you do an analysis of the existing state, you see what's wrong with the law, and you set yourself a goal. What's the ultimate goal? What do we finally want? What we had opportunities to hear through the media was actually all the time talking about privatisation, that's where it started, but that's where you're going somewhere so halfway you stop and now you don't know what you're going to do and how you're going to get one gemist of everything and everything that everyone is really unhappy with. You can't satisfy all interests, nor can everyone be satisfied, but you should finally know what we want. We are declaring advocating sustainable development. Sustainable development among other things means that all our fellow citizens, no matter where they live and work, have the same service. It is simply not so and the question is whether it is possible to do so, and now that you get to all those points that are defined through this law, then you start with the first point that speaks decentralisation and we immediately ask the question and we stop there because on the other hand we have decentralisation, and decentralisation is at the level of municipalities, cities, the question is how much is at the level of counties and there we already have political influence on this law with the role of counties, or the city of Zagreb will be very interesting to see, so just to say, we have learned in this House the following: one speak, the other listens a little bit of what we say or don't say, something a little accept, a very gentle majority of it does not accept and pass a law that corresponds to the ruling majority. So I always listen carefully, really carefully to what is said on behalf of the ruling clubs, this time there was a HDZ club where a respected colleague said between the first and second readings there would be some objections, so I kind of rely on his remarks and remarks that would be there, and yet there will be a little change in the law, and there is this law that has a lot of doctors in politics and in this House, so I kind of rely on some of the influences that they will have. But it will be very interesting to see in the city of Zagreb and in the congregation of the city of Zagreb when the interests of who, what, under what conditions, will be. I'll watch the same thing, you know sit there in the ranks of opposition and sometimes you feel like you need to buy popcorn and that you're better off than in any movie, and that's just not good. It's not good, you don't have to entertain that public, it's just not good, so in some things you always have the influence of politics. I prefer it when someone comes from a pay phone and says I'm not a politician and gives a political speech. As soon as you come from the pay phone and you're talking to some kind of attitude, it's politics. Therefore, it always has the influence of politics, but let's cut it down. The second says quality primary protection. Well, there isn't one of us who wouldn't want better quality primary protection. I personally have an excellent doctor who is very great and very strong, when he turned 65 I was freaked out to leave because he was extremely good for the whole family, so long-term experience, only thanks to a bad situation that was not a doctor, he remains, but of course no one is eternal and will not stay forever. And what we have a problem here, I'm going to immediately relate to the problem of education, let's see the situation we have, let's see the idea that young people don't see their future in Croatia, that young people when they finish colleges and whatever school they see their possibility somewhere else. We are a very interesting country and an interesting people, it is seen in this law. At one point, we decided that we had too little education and that there were too few people who were highly educated, and then we opened up the unfavorable colleges, different vocational schools, and we got people who finished it, who have diplomas, and now we don't know what to do with these diplomas. Well, just that part, that we have one continuity so that we can make up our mind and that we don't have educated people with whom we don't know what we're going to do and then we're actually struggling here, and today, especially when it comes to health care. Young people who end up and certain universities and certain vocational schools don't even think about it and don't want to stay here. So we young people, especially when it comes to health professions, are educated from our budget for other countries. And we don't have to be surprised that these other countries offer these same people certain benefits because they put a zero into their education. We've invested in education from the budget, they've invested zero, and of course there'll be benefits for them. And it's not good that any law here is really about one law in which we're all sensitive, being in a way that actually becomes a message you don't have a future in Croatia, looking for your future somewhere else. Then one of the importance of this law says strengthening patient health care, it's something like that declarative, it's a good thing, and then you come into real life, and whether you've had any little problems or some little bigger problems, there's no one who's satisfied. You know, we've been created, or we're still living in our heads, and it's in our heads that the state has to solve everything, that when we have a problem, we don't solve it ourselves, but that problem has to be solved by the state. Similarly, we have no problem with, say, people who have decided to live outside or even work now or anything, when they have a health problem come to solve health in Croatia because it is much simpler for them, or their health problems in Croatia, because it is much simpler for us. The same way we think there's no county that shouldn't have a hospital and that shouldn't have all the professions in that hospital. Great courage will be the moment when we make, when we do, when we write down everything that is and when we make up our mind and when we say that we don't really have to be everywhere and define where, and under what conditions. Of course, we don't have dilemmas here in primary protection, but at some point, it's gonna be a lot of courage. And when we say that maybe all of our existing hospitals and everything that we have and don't need to end, maybe something can be for something else. There will be great courage, there will be a great step. But what I know is this. If you want to make a reform, then you will all be declared advocating for reform. There's no one in this assembly who when it comes to health care on one side won't say too many waiting lists, can't come, can't satisfy it properly, won't anyone, there's no one who won't tell the doctors they're underpaid, we need to pay them more and everything else but if someone advocated serious reform he'd have to do it and make a serious effort to do it and it wouldn't be so simple and you always know from declarative to reality all right but don't let it apply to me, don't make me hurt here in any way. This law is actually one of those ideas that came from. We don't know where it ended anymore, but it ended in a way that we're trying to solve the mess. The mess we've got, it can't be solved by a mess. This law will not respond to all the problems that we in health care have that go through two readings, I have had the opportunity to hear and the minister who said that in a parliamentary debate there could be objections when some dissatisfactions were then he said to the MPs so let them give amendments. I'd like to tell you from this pay phone if you're talking to the MPs then only the rulers because their amendments will be accepted and discussed, don't waste time on the opposition because no matter what the opposition says, it won't be accepted. I've asked the Minister at the opening, give me a sentence of what the meaning of this law is, why we want it, what a step this is. Because when you're doing a new law, you have to have a purpose. We need to know what kind of health care we want in 2030, except that it's declarative in a way better to be young and rich than old and poor. Of course we're all going to stand for it. But what do we want to have in 2030? What this law offers to really be better then, to really answer certain problems, to have doctors on the one hand to have patients. So what's the point in the end of this law? That we have patients who are satisfied, that we have doctors who stay in Croatia doing work and want to stay in Croatia and continue doing this job. It's the ultimate meaning of the law. Do you, let's all ask ourselves a common question, does this health care law that is before us provide that ultimate goal? If we have doctors who are recently, last week or not, I don't know when, strike at Mark's square, so doctors show dissatisfaction. Patients, they just know there's something wrong and they don't show any discontent, they'll show at some point when they won't be able to get all the services they need to get. I went very carefully to read this law at all, you know that I do something, at all, in my activities of something else, but there is no one who has nothing to say about health reform and pension reform and does not want to talk about it in a certain way. So when I was reading this law, I asked myself a fundamental question as to what this law offers something new, which will solve the problem. It is not good to go with a law that will not solve existing problems, it will open up some new problems, because it will open up some new problems. They will open up, so especially when answers could not be given, then they have tried to give answers in some other way but all in the context of existing financial opportunities, so about 24 billion kunas that are for health care, and within that, we need to ensure quality health care. They have two things, and you always have to find two things that offer you some sort of step. One thing is that these mobile teams that we already had at one point were actually offered and allowed to come, to be a doctor, or to be an opportunity for everyone. I personally, although I have seen a series of remarks about health tourism. I personally about health tourism had an experience I mean well. The other day there was a Household Activity Act where I said it was good to have him there and to assume that he had made contact with the Ministry of Health. However, this one has the law and lately, in every law, protect the national health register. It's from that story about the importance of digitization. So when we think that the importance of digitisation is, then everyone starts again with a register, these registers of course cost and we forget that we have, say, the National Infrastructure of Spatial Data, that all the cities, the municipalities, the counties, the homes of health could do it on the basis of that law, in one place have it, but that's not the case. We have before us a law which, according to our assessment, will solve a new mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91315	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformist and Independent Representatives of counterparts Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91316	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. Let me be brief. Namely, my colleague Celić actually took away one of the topics that I thought I would talk about for a while, so there's no need for me to continue, but what I would actually stay on is health tourism. You have rightly stated under the law that the Republic of Croatia is rich in natural resources which represent a great potential for the development of health tourism at sea and in the continental part of Croatia, at 220 locations with favourable, potential conditions for the development of health tourism, of which only 10% of the exploitation is within 18 organised medical centres. At the end of the argument, you stated that health services in healthcare tourism can be provided by institutions, companies for the performance of health activities and private healthcare professionals in a manner established by specific regulations governing the provision of services in tourism. Those entities may carry out catering activities in such a way as to establish specific rules on the provision of services in the catering activity. These activities will be able to be carried out provided that healthcare institutions or private healthcare professionals are not additionally burdened by healthcare professionals and provided that this is not at the expense of the patients in the office. Now I'm back on the text of the law. In the text of the law of Article 39, if that is so, you will probably give me an explanation in the final word. In paragraph 2 of certain forms of health services provided in the activities of health tourism, Article 39(2), and the normatives for their performance, I stress, and the normatives for their performance, with the opinion of the Minister in charge of tourism, shall be prescribed by the Regulation by the Minister of Health. It doesn't say, but it does. Now I'm interested in the next one. Teached by the experience, in the party where I belonged, we had the initiative to provide funds to the tourism agencies for the winter months and for the pensioners, which were otherwise given to the tourism agencies, and in some ways not only symbolically participated in the costs of tourists in our hotels, we asked that this be made possible for our pensioners. Why? Because our pensioner who goes to the spa, in a private arrangement or arrangement of his associations, has to take a manual and pay for more plus accommodation and therapy. That spa charges the patient and collects from the office. On the other hand, bus ministers, buses go to another country, to BiH. From 3 to 10 buses in the group... For 1700 kn with transport, 10 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All 10 days have a certain number of treatments. That's where the specialists are waiting for them. So 1700 kn without a manual, they're developing health tourism and they're doing well. It's not working for us. We obviously only think here about health tourism that should come from the outside but we have groups of citizens who use it on their own cost and should not go to HZZO's cost with a manual if we have normal places in those spas. Not to speak of Vela Luka... Makarska, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if you mean because I don't see it from Article 39 or the 40th of the Law that if you understood that normative under that rule, you would define the normative amount of it in a specific destination for the patients of the institution and how free the facilities for health tourism are because I hold that health tourism should develop new capacities in our health care facilities. New capacities. So, let's charge as much as it is, let the cannon be charged in tourism. And that it doesn't go to the expense of our patients. So I would pray in that sense and the answer in your closing statement. As far as the rest of the law, our club, at least what we discussed, and as far as we understand healthcare except as patients, we still see the goal in that bill of yours, which is, firstly, decentralisation of health, which is very important to me. Not only can the ministry be responsible for the state of health of the Republic of Croatia, it must also be taken over by the county. In addition, we come through this and that there is no more self-will of the director or mayor because all decisions on health care in the county must be made by the County Assembly. I think it ensures certain transparency and security in all health details. It seems to us that this bill will bring better quality primary health care, better working conditions for doctors and other healthcare professionals, improve the system of palitative care that I said my colleague Celić took away from me part of the debate, not to repeat, and for these reasons, the Club of Representatives of Labour and Solidarity, Reformist and Independent Representatives will accept this bill in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91317	Thank you, too. Next debate on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, counterpart Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91318	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, it would begin by reminding us of the definition of health, because health is not only in the disease system, but health and condition, physical, mental and social well-being. It would be very interesting if we could just do a quick survey among the citizens of Croatia and ask them what they think is left of their great well-being. I think we'd have something to hear. What do you think we would find, one single person in Croatia who believes that the health care system rests on a healthy basis and works well. What do you think citizens think of these long waiting lists? How many people are satisfied with the quality and availability of healthcare. What would a man who lives on a Dalmatian island on my native Pelješac in Korčula, Cres, Rab, would say someone who lives on Mosor, on Papuk, is it easy to get to medical assistance or not. Can we provide them with available and quality health care in the 21st century? If we are not to be honest with ourselves, there is also a rather relevant report by Mr. Minister, which says that the Croatian health system, last year, took 26 places from 35 countries and compared to 2016 we fell by 7 seats, meaning in 2 years because what was 2016 left to you. In two years, you fell seven places. The report says that not only quality fell in Croatia, but also availability of healthcare, waiting lists increased, citizens increasingly find hospital specialists, longer waiting for operational procedures, longer waiting for searches such as CT, such as magnetic resonance. Well, I can tell you my own personal experience, I didn't want to take advantage of the fact that I'm a doctor, and I needed a search for magnetic knee resonance. I went back to the office to see if I could get an appointment and I got it in a year and seven months. Watch out for a year and seven months. magnetic resonance, for acute knee condition. Well, in the meantime, I'm probably growing a new cartilage and a new mescus. So, with all the problems I've caused, we have today's health care law, which is considered a fundamental law of health, which doesn't really change anything. And that's what my predecessors said that they were discussing on behalf of the club. And yet another rather relevant service of the minister, which says that in the Republic of Croatia is the life expectancy of more than 3 years below the EU average, which means that we live 3 years shorter. The rate of mortality from cardiovascular disease is almost double the EU average. Which means we die twice as much from a heart attack, and the rates of death from lung cancer, breast cancer and colon cancer are among the highest in Europe. We're at the beginning when it comes to prevention of fat and smoking and alcohol consumption. Now what is this, what do you think, Minister? We at the SDP Club think that this is worrying information that rings the alarm, but not only to ring the alarm, but also to the need for a national consensus on the urgent measures to be taken, while at the same time the law we have on the benches, which we are discussing today, has no reform potential and nothing fundamentally changes. It's not that hard to agree on what we need today, what kind of health care system do we need? We need one quality comprehensive health care that is available to everyone, that is clear to us all. We need a system that is facing people, patients, we need a system that is financially sustainable, which does not generate debts, we need better working conditions, for all those who work in the healthcare system, for doctors, for nurses, for technicians, we need a elaborate reward system to keep them in Croatia as well. We need a health system that is flexible, which is easily transformed, depending on new technologies, depending on the needs of the population. Minister, as we as the SDP Club but I think the general public and the professional public are expecting you and your ministry. Don't take this as an attack. We would simply say that if anyone were you, even when the SDP had its own government. We Assembly representatives expected it from our ministers and we were critical, you may never have heard of it, but we are critical and today we are critical of you. We expect you to recognize problems, expect you to understand them and offer solutions. We're not saying you're not trying, but your role must be leadership, it must be proactive, it must be co-ordinated, and you must recognize what good things your predecessors have done. It would be good for you to be with them, if you are wise, politically, however you wish to proceed. But you must offer your own solutions, which are in accordance with both time and the need of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In a system that's... problems, such as health care, the minister must not play a passive role and must not wait for things to be resolved by himself, because he will not, because you know it, as a man, who has both a life experience and a professional experience and is not good at working on the system, best not to do anything, because if I don't, then he won't criticise me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course we don't want, society, Croatian doesn't want a new reform going on every 4 years, so we're both too small and too poor a country to be able to afford such luxury that every 4 years when the new minister comes, he starts with his new reform. In organized and advanced states and societies, that can't happen, but that's what we can do. Why? Well, because we never, ever achieved political agreement about any reforms that took place in Croatia. If we had achieved it, any minister would have continued where his predecessor had stopped. The bad things that happened over time would have been eliminated, and with good things to go on. In such large and important systems as health care, and that is education, it is education, it is social, continuity is judgment, judgment. And he's gone, and that's our big pain, and that's our big problem, and we just can't get away from that problem. We are discussing today, not the amendments and additions to this law, we are discussing the new law, the whole law, the Health Protection Act, and we were not expecting, don't be surprised that my colleagues on behalf of the club are discussing it the way they're discussing it. We did not expect this law to present changes of cosmetic nature. Moreover, we expected that precisely because of the accumulated problems, the law would be reformable and would address these same problems. But we seem to have been mistaken. It was expected in public, both in that professional and general public that the law would deal with the hospital system, why? So because it produces debts, because it is one of the biggest problems in the health system, we expected it to deal with the quality and efficiency of primary health care, to deal with the waiting lists that have exploded, to deal with the departure of doctors and nurses in search of better working and living conditions outside Croatia, to deal with better survival than some diseases, cancers, heart attack, to deal with the prevention of alcohol consumption, obesity, smoking etc. But we were wrong. On the one hand, the law raised huge dust among the primaries, they strike in Mark's square, so of course, you promised them something, then you took it from them, but the hospital sector as the source of the largest dubiosis in Croatian health, you ministers didn't experience it, and you know the system from it, so I'm sure you know what solutions should be. It's amazing that you haven't even touched the hospital's system of debt and problems with this law. Is it possible to resolve the problems of the health system in a partial and successful manner? Well, of course it didn't, so it didn't work out for anyone, so neither will you. It is not difficult to conclude that precisely because of the fact that from a better organisation of primary health care, better functioning of health homes, it has given up, and the hospital sector has not been identified as a problem. It is therefore easy to conclude that this law does not have one clear vision, does not see a wider picture and does not solve the key problems of the health system. How does the law recognise the problem of poor working conditions and small salaries of nurses and technicians and doctors? So people who are pillars of Croatian health care. Not at all. Will the law prevent the departure of health care personnel from Croatia? He won't. Why are doctors and nurses leaving Croatia? Well, it's amazing, they're not even leaving because of the money they're leaving because of their working conditions, because of human relationships, and generally because of their dissatisfaction with the organisation of work in the health care system. Since Croatia's entry into the EU, 600 doctors have left. Right now, I'm thinking about 1,500 of those who are waiting for some kind of permission to leave. We have a shortage of 2,000 specialists, a 151 primary health care team is without a carrier, I mean, how long are we gonna be out of hands? The law foresees rewarding health workers, then a man would say excellent, but it is completely underdeveloped and dependent on further government decisions, and in translation there is a great chance that this will never happen in practice. So we have 60,000 people who are employed in health care, nurses and technicians with catastrophicly low salaries, young doctors, doctors who are without cumulative, who are underpaid in relation to their colleagues in other EU countries, and then the question is, how long do we think to keep them on such low wages? How much responsibility is on them, how much effort, how much education, how much pain and effort. Not everyone can do this job, so you know it very well. Well, they deserved to be paid every hour of overtime, and they deserved to have bigger salaries. I have to ask you Minister, what's your plan? What do you mean, do it? We at the SDP club have a plan, we have a solution, we showed it to you indirectly. We don't have a problem with intellectual property over it. All you had to do for us was carry on what we started. Open the hospital door in the afternoon, allow people to work and pay them honestly, and certainly reduce waiting lists, as we did. Yeah, it's the wrong vision of private health that HDZ promotes whenever it comes to power. In your vision and level of health care, determines the payload power. Whoever pays, he's got health. With the health of the goods and us at the SDP club, we don't agree. Your plan went down this time, with a very noisy public. We hope it stays that way. The financing of the health system, objectively speaking, has been the problem of all ministers so far, everyone has been dealing with this problem, accessing reforms, patching holes, rehabilitating hospitals. We don't see that you're going to solve this problem with this law. You are thanks to some good economic trends that we have left you to pump into a system of about a billion and something, but Minister, you have to admit that even now as it is, every month, a new 95 million debt is generated, which means that on an annual level we have debts, how much, over a billion kuna, correct me if I'm wrong. Finally, on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to point out once again our concern by building up problems in the health system that are not being solved, which is why this important portfolio, such as health care, is not only stagnating but also backward, and unfortunately this law is not seriously dealing with any essential problem of the resistor. We sincerely hope that until the second reading, there will be extensive changes, because that is exactly what our support for the law will depend on, Mr. Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91319	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next debate on behalf of HSS Representatives' Club, counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91320	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with associates. On behalf of the Club of HSS Representatives regarding the Health Protection Act, we can say that this bill has excited and clouded the water when it comes to the health system in the Republic of Croatia. Unsatisfactory patients and many associations of patients have submitted a series of objections to this bill, dissatisfied doctors of family medicine, and public and private although these are also privately conditional private because they are part of the public health system and have organised protests here and it is not good for the minister to prepare this law in agreement with the family medicine doctor's association to promise them one and then the proposal comes before us something different that they are dissatisfied with and are also dissatisfied with doctors and nurses and in hospitals because they do not have all equal working conditions, do not have the same pay, do not have the same equipment, there is a lot of pressure on them to reduce waiting lists and not all of them. The only one who's satisfied is the minister because the law is still in the process. And he says I'm not all-powerful either, so now it's Parliament's turn, let him fix it, let him pass a better and better law. It is okay, Minister, to transfer a ball to our parliamentary deputies, but we have often made a number of quality remarks and amendments, but unfortunately none is accepted, always most respect the government's proposal and so expect that very little of our remarks will be accepted by the second reading and it is not good practice. You are right when you say that the Parliament should consider all proposals from the field of profession, that the voice of those who are part of that public health system is more respected, and these are primarily doctors, nurses and other staff, and only then that politics gives its vision and solutions to the same. But unfortunately, I say, in the House, most of us always revote us from the opposition and get the law as it is, and we have a situation on the ground that our health system is in big financial problems, infrastructure problems, human resources and organisational problems. I point out again, although I have repeatedly said here that the public health system must have a patient in the focus of interest and that it must be the one around which everything revolves and that this availability of healthcare must be equal in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. And then today it's not, we all know that, and that's what needs to be said in public. That condition needs to be fixed and fixed. It is particularly difficult in rural areas, in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem and other areas from which people emigrate where there is primarily a lack of a doctor of family medicine, a lack of pediatricians, logos, orthopedics and a number of other specialists. Here is only in the area of Brod-Posavina at this point missing 14 doctors of family medicine and it is very difficult to compensate at this point and it is left to organise who? County, or county congregation, through the home of health and through that part of the teams that remained within the health home. It is impossible for someone who does not have enough funding to organise a system to be available health care throughout the Republic of Croatia and in every county because we cannot compare Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, their fiscal capacities and the space of Slavonia and Baranja, County, we know what problem they are in. In part, this has been corrected with the latest tax reforms where incomes have been slightly increased by these counties but due to the obligations and debts that have been inherited, at this point let's be honest, the counties in the inability to organise a quality health system, to replace these 14 doctors, to have quality equipment in all these clinics and available Internet we don't even have the opportunity to take that step to the above standard to ensure that there is a sufficient number of other medical personnel especially if there is an emergency medical team on the ground, there is an empty office, and there is no doctor problem, there is further pressure on a united hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital hospital doctor and there has been attempts to reduce such pressure, there was no courage to continue, but the fact that we also lack a doctor in hospitals. We have already heard that over 600 doctors have left the Republic of Croatia and have prepared documentation of more than 1200, it is a serious problem, we must imagine how to keep doctors in the Republic of Croatia and how to stimulate them to stay working not only in cities but also to be available to municipalities and places in the rural area. There are models, they should only be copied from the countries that did this because the minister boasted that our health system is one of the better in the world. Especially when it comes to primary health care and it's good because we had a quality organised network of homes of health care. It is true, some countries, such as Ireland, return to this way of organising primary health care, as they have seen that those through the excessive organisation have lost that quality to primary health care and access to health care for the patient. And with this bill we're working on some kind of gemist, and we're not going to solve the problem, because the county and the home of health can't organize a system that works 100% if you have up to 25% of the office, up to 25%. It's just not possible and we already have 20 and more years of concessionaries and you know what the problem is? It can't be organised on Sundays, holidays and weekends, mortuary, because concessionaries can and don't have to do it. By this law, it's not settled either. That's true, the county, they don't have enough money to pay quality to perform that mortuary, but to the extent that they have financial opportunities. A lot of doctors don't decide that, and we have that problem. Why wouldn't a doctor who's been following a patient ever since birth be at the moment when a patient dies next to him and writes those papers he needs. It wasn't settled, and it wasn't solved by this law either. It should also be said that the county cannot organise, especially in Slavonia, quality and available healthcare because there is not enough money to equip every infirmary with that equipment that every patient should have with his family doctor. And angle. The concessionaries grouped into cities, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Osijek, and the villages lack them. It is good that a family doctor can work in 2 or 3 infirmarys as it has been moved here. But we at HSS disagree that it still complements it with a mobile network, with some van or bus, which will go with the villages and treat what few people left in those border areas. We're already humiliating them enough that they don't have shops on their street and in their house and in their neighborhood, but they're buying bread from the van, and now they need a doctor from the van to give them medicine. Do not further humiliate this population in rural areas. There are enough, as well as empty hospitals and local homes and district schools that are empty, 68 of them have already been closed in Croatia. I believe that, in cooperation with the ministry and the county and the municipalities, these premises can be arranged, that the presence of a doctor of family medicine in certain days and certain hours can be organised in these areas and that they are allowed to review and quality further processing to have available health care. I mean, that's our proposal to find financial resources, to ensure that in every municipality at least there's a place, a infirmary, or a manual infirmary where a doctor would come and give medical care, let's not further humiliate them with treatment from a bus or from a van. Because if there is no health care, then the eviction from those areas will continue. It's a fact and it's true, and we have to stop the eviction. I also said that the management of health care homes does not have enough instruments to reward doctors who remain in the health care home, who work higher and better. The minister said, he'll deal with it in a regulation. It could also be in the law to give them the same incentive and support, to really have the minister and the ministry think about them and to allow those who work to be adequately rewarded and to equalise the doctors of family medicine and public and private and leave them with a choice, as they will decide whether to be in a health care home or not. Let health care professionals, doctors, decide for themselves. And to ensure the system, we really need to give doctors not only family medicine, but everyone in Croatia, and there are over 11,000 in Croatia special status. This Croatia can, we have given some other professions special status through the benefits of work experience and through other contributions, but financial discharge, stimulation, cannot be only on municipalities, cities and counties. Because we are already helping them in a certain way to resolve their housing issues and other problems. But I think that through this law and other tax laws, they could be additionally rewarded by doctors of family medicine and doctors in hospitals, that they would have higher salaries, because with a salary of 8-9 thousand kuna, even a doctor in the hospital is not satisfied. His colleagues, concessionaries made more money in family medicine, and especially if we take the salaries of doctors in Austria, Germany, so they won't go away just these 600 that went away, they'll go away another 1,000 young people, especially if they don't see safety for their further progress after school, because only here, the detail already mentioned has not been solved, whether they will have to do a traineeship or will have to go straight to work. Says the minister, he'll handle it too. But that's just one indicator, where the law isn't complete and where all segments weren't cared for, every detail is important for the health system to work. So you need to get us and me from the HSS before the proposal is done to increase registration quotas at medical schools, why not? He says there's not enough infrastructure in colleges, classrooms, lab stores, professors, so why don't we work it out, there's ways, we've got a government budget in surplus, we've got a part of the funding to upgrade colleges and equipment to colleges, and to ensure teaching staff that we can increase enrolment quotas to medical schools, is that a problem, is thinking long-term, because we should. Because somewhere in ten years, over 4,000 doctors will retire. That's one of the suggestions. Other for rural areas how to resolve the lack of a doctor, the proposal is either to increase the headgear or to reduce the number of patients needed to make a contract with HZZO. Why wouldn't it be 750-800 patients in rural areas if he had the same income as his colleague in town who didn't have a problem buying 1700 or 2000 patients? These are some models that need to be considered, which the HSS proposes to introduce. ... Here, we also think that we need to think about uniting emergency medicine and emergency hospital reception because we also miss emergency medical specialists, so we need to come in and work on neurosurgeons, surgeons, neurosurgeons, and then I can't do my job in my clinics, but they're here. [[You can't hear it.]] If there was a compromise of the unification of emergency medicine and a united emergency hospital reception, a part of the doctor who could then work there would get quality triage and then further distribution to the departments where we should already go, and you should also consider how these emergency medical doctors can increase their numbers because especially now that we have a tourist season that will expect to be stronger than last year we lack an emergency doctor and we need to look for more solutions, and only to increase the number of specializations and to increase wages. True, it's hard work. It's one of the most difficult emergency medicine jobs is safe. Of course, every honor and other profession within the medical profession, but this must be a very difficult job and rarely young doctors decide on these emergency medicine specializations. When it comes to the hospital system, it is already mentioned that the problem of the hospital system which is still outstanding debts from the previous period and cannot be hospitalized, whether they are general or county from their regular business in such conditions to settle debts. And the founders of the county won't be able to handle it financially if there's a negative business of the same, and we've heard colleagues before me as much as the daily shortages of funds in the hospital system. If it wasn't all bad, I'd commend what you separated and returned... The hospital of Nova Gradiška and Pakrac, it's a good way to get health care closer to any patient who needs to be in the focus of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91321	Comrade Vlaović, thank you. Next on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, Mrs. Topolko and counterpart Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91322	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Honored ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Health Protection Act for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which represents a step forward in improving the complete health care system towards a more modern and sustainable one with a basic goal, which is to provide quality, timely and all available health services. The health system is crying out for reorganisation at all levels and its reform is indeed a major challenge. Health care is necessary to decentralise, strengthen, preventative activities, provide better working conditions for healthcare professionals, better hospital care with strengthening of daily hospitals, improving palitative care and ultimately, creating an effective system and better service for patients. This bill goes in that direction and the HNS will support it. But we also believe that there is room for his dorado. For example. We suggest that you be in art. 11th of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1st of 1th of the following: consider the possibility of giving the regional or regional self-government unit the possibility to establish and organise, on the basis of a decision by the Ministry of Health and Health of the County Assembly, the work of the unit in the establishment of which it is established in the context of primary health care and outside the public health service network. Also, I'd like to look back here at the article. 37th of the proposed Law concerning pharmaceutical activities. I suggest we mention the article. complements in such a way that they can, exceptionally, establish and organise the work of a pharmacy whose founders are in the context of primary health care and outside the public health service network, through the basis of the consent of the Ministry of Health and HZZO, and by the decision of the Minister, the County and the City of Zagreb. As for the administrative councils, in particular Article 83(3), we suggest that the possibility be considered for members of the Governing Council to be other professions, not just health professionals. We all know that the tasks of administrative councils are to adopt financial plans, final accounts, and to analyse financial operations as well as to adopt general acts, and to suggest and propose that members of the board may be both legal and economicists. I also propose an amendment to the article. Article 103(3), in a way that the home of health is bound by the decision of the founder, to ensure that there are at least 25% of the offices in its activity, not as it stands in the proposal up to 25 offices. Namely, we welcome the proposal from Art. 162. which refers to the award system for the net average results of workers providing health care. The law gives us the opportunity to know that the institutions in the downfall and this proposal should in no way remain just a dead letter on paper, but must find the means to make it possible for these people to actually give a proper reward for their work. In this way, they would be adequately rewarded in an institution where they work probably feel better and there would be no need to work in so-called ‘. ’ i.e. in private practice, which is probably what we think would solve the problem of long waiting lists. We suggest that you... except for the doctor and nurse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also suggest that nurses who work overtime for this work get paid, not to be allowed free hours because they and 2 hours a day have to come work and then have travel expenses and waste time. We also suggest that nurses and medical technicians be allowed to do a traineeship with employment, such as how they have other professions that I have mentioned. Also, I would like to point out that we have an ever-increasing elderly population of both doctors and primary medicine patients who have been identified by patients by their signature, after leaving the selected doctor in retirement, that it is possible for this doctor to participate in the selection of his successor, i.e. that it is possible for a doctor to have an influence on who will inherit such a choice, or his patients. You know how sensitive older people are when you tell him today you've got someone new and he hasn't been recommended by his doctor for 20 years, 30 years. Finally, this proposal brings about shifts, but it also has opportunities to improve. The HNS Club will support this proposal in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91323	Here you go, Comrade Batinić. Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91324	Thank you, Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. In fact, there's no ideal law, but as far as this law is concerned, I think the main goal is to read, it's to reorganize the system. It is this reorganisation of the health care system that seeks and I believe that the implementation of the law and through all those measures that are prescribed, and through decentralisation of the system, the objective of better primary health care, strengthening preventive activities, that we as patients in the future will be more satisfied than we are now. But no one has talked today about what we consider to be the primary part of as high-quality insurance as possible, as well as providing health care in the future. It's prevention, prevention. It is written, the possibility has been given, but I think that particularly health institutions should be practically driven by the care of newborns, but primarily I think that both pre-school institutions and all the way up as far as education structure is concerned that there should be far more attention to prevention. In fact, we can all, all of us, testify from our own experiences with the doctor, have certain negative statistics, start from the very obesity, from lack of practice in sports, physical activities, from perhaps previously poorly articulated problems caused by certain vices, smoking, alcohol, etc., I believe that there should be far more work to do. Namely, why am I saying that? The health system, I think there's over 4 million insurance people somewhere, and we know that we have employees somewhere around a million and a half and something that stands out 15% plus 0.5 for health care. And of course no minister, no government can provide enough money to strengthen, intensify and pursue even better quality health services and that what is happening is that doctors, primarily, believe that this is the basic reason, better wages are leaving the Republic. You ministers were saying you'd give cigarettes an even stronger tax, we'd put on alcohol, on this, I don't know what causes certain diseases. Well, I'd love to go that way even though I'm a smoker. Which I'm not much to brag about but I'm willing to bear the burden of it if it will result in certain effects and results. Furthermore, I also consider what my colleague said, but I would like to point out in particular, means decentralisation of the system just to allow regional and local self-government to provide certain specificities that are at the level of the Republic of Croatia to try to regulate, organise in its area. There may have been some comments and a smile, mobile ambulances, or whether it was a van or I think it was imagined at that level, I think it's dapaca. So I think it's completely irrational even in some parts it should be primary to get to the patient as soon as possible. There are certain, you have a certain distance of 50, 60 km to the first infirmary, I see no reason why not in such a way. That's more than commendable, though. We've got ends, I come from northern Croatia where 150 inhabitants are a kilometer square. You have, I'm just going to mention Senjska Lika County, I think it's under 10 residents per km/square. The hospital in Gospić, I don't know if there's anything in the island, Senj, in winter conditions. It's precisely the goal, and that's why I'm saying that these things, I'm a little surprised that some colleagues may have responded a little bit with a smile to that sort of thing. Emergency medical services, it has also shown certain positive and equally certain shortcomings in performance, whether we have enough emergency teams, mobile teams, etc. But I believe that the analysis that you've done and which is somehow contained or translated into articles of the law that should give better results in the future. We talked personally about special duty. There is simply a certain lack in certain days that patients cca 37,000 patients must travel 40, 50 kilometers on weekends, if it is urgent somewhere, do not give God what is said to go to the intervention that they have inaccessibleness and that they must be detected in an emergency medical unit, or diagnosed as a patient. So this part here, we're on the scale, we've suggested, a colleague has proposed 25% to be a minimum organization because there's a chance that this level, and special duty can be organised, but if it's up to 25%, let's not be 7, let's be at least 24%. because we consider at this initial stage the application of laws and implementation and, in fact, the time limit until you have defined that certain objectives will be achieved that will give positive effects. When I was talking about seizing out, the fact is that even now a number of other measures that are being taken by the entire government and increasing the number of jobs, new jobs, is also the potential for far greater isolation for health care. Of course, health is expensive, and I say again that, in my opinion, it would be extremely important for us at HNS to do what is best at prevention itself. Have we, colleagues and colleagues, no matter whether we are here or as citizens, wondered how much we ourselves contribute to our health or our health problems? I think the most, I think the most. If we are aware, the money is collected in solidarity and is shared as much as it needs in view of the service it is provided. Can we prevent it ourselves, prevent how? Blood pressure, sugar, inactivity, obesity, so here's the minister we think this should be particularly highlighted, and I would like that if statistical indicators after law enforcement or especially these preventive activities that have been partly drawn here when education itself is strengthened, I believe that the statistical indicators of citizens' health in Croatia would be better because some indicators have not been checked, they can't specify sources, they were general statistics, we're one of the most sick people in Europe. I don't think we're, I believe we have a lot of room to work on ourselves, and so this money that's being collected from health insurance so that we can use it far better, rationally in the function of the nation's health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91325	Thank you. We're done arguing on behalf of the MPs' club. Now we start with individual debates. First is colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91326	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, in my replica I talked about the primary health care work in undeveloped areas or I was talking about the example of Split-Dalmatia County, i.e. Dalmatian burns, and now I'm going to start from your words where you said we should protect the health of all citizens, both those at work, at work, and all citizens. However, the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, I will tell you an example of the radiation of base stations in Croatia in our cities is 890 times larger than in Paris and Vienna and they have the Internet. So there is more radiation and, of course, in 2013, the World Health Organization declared electromagnetic radiation to be a possible cause of the tumor. If we all ask ourselves together to give this rule of electromagnetic radiation to the Ministry of Health who did not want to change for years, was I before being an activist, so I worked with people who are fighting the Croatian Association on the Protection from magnetic radiation where people are from the profession, they warned of that, but the Ministry of Health must not do so. Not only are telephony operators acting this way in terms of electromagnetic radiation and what are the limits within us, i.e. from electromagnetic fields in us is referred to the values that the borders of the international commission of... radiation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But those boundaries where you took over, which took the borders from the health ministry since '98. They're basically just a guarantee that there won't be any burns, that they protect against burns and electroshocks. I will repeat again, in our base stations, in our cities, while they don't need a location permit, but it's not part of yours, I gave the law in the procedure, no consent, nothing they need, it can't be done by tele operators in Sweden, neither in Germany nor in Germany, and they don't have a 40% profit in their countries, but in the Republic of Croatia and they don't invest it. Electromagnetic radiation means a huge problem affecting human health. They're placed on kindergartens, end of hospitals, end of the maternity ward, who protects our citizens, and whether tele operators will pay for these health damages that our children have, and they're involved even in tumors and the biggest increase in the 400m range of research is brain tumors. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. To see a little confusing is that, but that's the fact that 890 times in our cities is allowed more radiation electromagnetically than base stations, than in Paris and Vienna. They've got cell phones there, they haven't returned to the Stone Age. And not only do teleopers put wherever they want, that's what I said. So I would ask you to include this in the legal framework, if you can install something in the second reading rather than hide in the rules. There are several regulations in the ministries in Croatia, I know, there is something to regulate, but these things should not be granted to teleoperators to the harm of our citizens, especially when it comes to health. I noticed something else, you didn't prescribe the establishment of a hospice, we just have in Rijeka how familiar I am with hospice. So there's no network of hospices in our areas, you're a palitative care you've defined as a need and establishment, and that's good, but the hospice for these most difficult patients who are dying are, I've had and again as an activist, I repeat, in Sinj we intended, no matter what we're bigger than Licko-Senj County, Cetinska krajina, by the number of residents larger than Međimurje County, you had the intention of shutting down and stationary. So with the birthplace then, no matter what they like and all the alka, there will come soon and the alka, no matter what the Alkars would not be born in Sinj, no matter how much less we hear the crying of children in maternity and in Sinj or in Split, and in all the birthing sites in the Republic of Croatia and more and more parents crying at bus stations and airports. That's one basic problem. But they also wanted to, they were going to shut down the stationary in the home health system. And they don't invest. Then I had protests, petitions, then he was still a colleague Milinovic was a minister, he had of course years of it because of the blue alka, to come to the alka, then they had to leave the birthplace, that's one story that's behind us and so remained the stationary. But the fact is that primary health care, I'm going to speak now for my Chetino end. How's your Imotski, Igor? In Vrgorec to see what the diagnostic devices of World War II are like, it says Sutjeska, I have no idea there, the laboratory Makarska. People, even in Sinj, we have a diagnostic device because, here I am, there have been protests, there's been a lot of activists, there's a lot of pressure. Women have been waiting six months to enroll in the exam, UZV breast, six months. But that's the day of the order of thousands of women, thousands of women. And that's what I warned you about, here was the mayor before Gebrnje, and before he was Mr. Sanader. They were familiar with it. But no one reacted until there was some kind of protest. So in those parts, these women were literally, they weren't lucky to sign up then, then they'd wait six months to sign up, if they didn't, then they'd have to go to a private, because otherwise they'd die, they wouldn't know. Then the privates would be fine. And now the loudest voice is heard from the Split-Dalmatia County. So how is it possible that Split-Dalmatia County has allowed the fusion of home health and we are the largest county. We've got islands, we've got coasts, we've got backwaters, we've got half a million people, we've got less than half a million people, we've got one home of health. And he's centralised and he's centralized power. And your biggest problem is Minister, listen, when the decentralised funds go to the county, that's where the money stays. That's not where the money's being deployed. It means decentralised funds. You are calling for decentralisation, i.e. In fact, everything is centralized. There's money in the county, it's not going towards local communities, they're determining who it's going to go to and how it's going to go. Whoever exerts pressure, whatever, it will either get or where is the political option that is in power in the county that will get certain health services. Is this the constitution we hold in our hands? This is not respecting the Constitution equality on health care certainly does not exist in Zagreb, in my Cetina region and in your Imotski the same health care, at least primary, I do not say that it must be the same. Not only do they not have the same medical care they don't have an ambulance, enough teams. At the closed door come, countless examples, I was in the case of an ambulance in Sinj when one team went away and without a doctor, with a doctor still happening, he went to Mooch or I don't know where, in Vrlik, the door was closed on the weekend. What if the child is in danger, choking, something happens? The child will die because the door is closed. So the bad organization, the money, the centralized that goes to the county, is a fussed home of health, before it was ruined, from it continued now Petric which I now see is very loud. And where are the specials? Where were those specialists so far? Now they say we have 39 specials, but that'll be 4.5 years from now. How do you bridge this now? And that's why our citizens are leaving too because we don't have medical services or primary, let alone in these rural areas where people don't have a secure transportation of health homes. So health homes should be key, primary protection. And that's according to Andrija Stampar, I think that's how primary health care was provided. However, Cetinska krajina, here's a colleague of yours from Vrlika, go to Vrlika, and you'll see how older people have secured transportation, what kind of health care service you have, go, look, I'll welcome you however you want. It's not enough just to come to the blue alka. I like to see you in Sinjska alka to promote Sinjska alka but it is not enough and admires the historical traditions, culture, chivalry, chivalry, invitations I don't know anything and these ends are extinct, empty ends, two-thirds of Croatia and due to health care are where they are. That is why I expect this law to protect the rural areas, border areas, two-thirds of Croatia, Slavonia, Zagorje, Liku, Gorski Kotar, Ravne Kotara, Dalmatia Zagora, two-thirds of Croatia are empty, without health care. How you'll ensure it's up to you, but it's under the Constitution, every citizen must have the same right. I know it's a cross and former authorities that left bad results but every citizen must have the same right, if we don't have health care in that area, believe me, no one will come back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91327	Thank you, fellow Bull. Thank you. On your show we have 4 replicas, first colleague Željka Josic, then Vesligaj, then Sanader, then Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91328	Thank you. I'm just going to refer to this birthplace in Sinj that you mentioned. So we'd all be very, we'd all love to be birthplaces in all our cities, but that's not so possible. You have to be aware that every outpatient maternity home carries with it its risks. Everything's fine, and everything's fine when the birth is right. But in those situations where a non - hospital maternity home is to be complicated, it will be equally dangerous for those who carry out that birth, but unfortunately for a woman who is in labor and for her child. That's why these out-of-patient birth homes, and if they were to be abolished, it's not just because that's what politics wants, but let's be realistic. Let's get everyone the quality they deserve. I as a gynecologist can tell you that at the best clinic there can be some complications and that even where you have absolutely everything sometimes you can't react great and excellently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91329	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91330	I really speak the language of the people now. You're an expert on this, I don't want to talk to you at all, and I believe you said well, but as far as I know it's the birth and the natural process, as far as I'm reading. But if you do. So, it's a natural process as much as, I don't know, before women were born and naturally in places outside the hospital, but of course they should provide the best conditions, but why centralize it? Then nothing. We will all go to Zagreb, the only place in Zagreb. The best way to do that is to solve the problem. The helicopter service of the minister, from Imotski, women from Sinj and Zagreb. I think the Dalmatian Zagora, as I said, has 130 thousand people, and 26 has moved away in four years, that we won't need a maternity home at all. That's sad. We should work to make gynecologists, to be, with the hospital cooperation, to come all experts who need diagnostic equipment to come to Sinj, to other cities, to have these birthing sites work, and to work together with the hospital, with KBC Split,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91331	Thank you, Comrade Bull. Replica number two, colleague of the Vesligai Marko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91332	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Bulj, I must tell you that I support your debate and you have well noticed that actually the tendency of this law is one of the centralization of the system. Instead of going decentralisation and it will greatly harm the smaller environments. Health homes are defined in one way in the law, and unfortunately it will work the opposite of what is stated in the Law, especially in smaller environments. I ask the minister about the problem that exists in the law, and it concerns the reduction of one health service for the people of Krapina-Zagorje County and then he tells me that I don't understand the system. I'm not a doctor, I understand maybe medicine, I have some work experience and work in the healthcare system, and I'm sure it's not how you answered me. But here, I'm going to be optimistic and I believe it can be fixed until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91333	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91334	The primary protection of colleagues and health homes is based on rural areas. This is the basis, this primary health care that could prevent and 70% meet the needs of our citizens. However, health homes are collapsed, mainly in Split-Dalmatia County in the hinterland, probably with you. Some of the counties remained 4-5 health homes in 2002, much smaller in the Split-Dalmatia County, but the county is always the founder. Always that money regardless of whether it's locally called I don't know how, home of health, but it's always the founder of the county, according to the current law. And that's one of the problems. Everything has to go through the Pharaoh system, the brakes of development and destruction, and there should be a fight for... Development, county interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, she's a brake in everything, and mostly in health care. The county's brake... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91335	Next replica, colleague Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91336	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Bull, I have no intention of pollemizing with you because I know that everything I say, you will say it your way again, and that is your right. But I have a responsibility because I'm sitting here while you're talking for the viewers who, thank God they're not watching us right now, but maybe someone's accidentally watching this show, this transmission, and then I have to say that what you said is false, you're talking about health homes like some centres of alienated power, like some who are evil in this system. I don't agree with that because it's all over the world, the whole civilized world exists, works and works, and so does we. And also in Split-Dalmatia County. Just a detail, the cities' health homes entered Split-Dalmatia County with 250 million debt, brought in from cities, and today I asked a question here, a desire to give to all the cities that want to be given to them to establish their home of health, only that they be founders, not county, and then take over all the responsibilities and financial... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91337	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91338	Well, it's very simple. We have a constitution and every citizen must have the same right. County that... They don't, and that's what we're witnessing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You can go to Makarska, we can go to Imotski, we can go to Sinj, we can go to Vrgorac, the entire Dalmatian Zagora, Knin... Even Knin has a hospital, but Drnish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's clear here. Countys do not fulfill their role of even development,... The county home, they should be, and when I talk about the Dalmatian Zagora, the Dalmatian Zagora is forgotten in two counties by all and they don't care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm against it, I'm always saying that the counties that money is decentralised for health care in this case are essentially ending up with them and what leaks a little through their fingers, which I can't control, which I can't employ administrations unnecessarily in my own administrative bodies, councils, control your voting machinery at the expense of health services, to the detriment of specialization, that's the county. And that's not the county's interest. It would be better for decentralised resources to go directly across municipalities and cities for health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91339	Thank you. The last replica of your presentation, colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91340	Kolega Bulj, probably Split-Dalmatia County is one of the counties that has worst solved primary health care. We know that they were large homes of health both in Makarska and Sinj and in Imotski. At the time of making a large home of health of the Split-Dalmatia County, he may have recovered debts, but what I also know is that every year we leave counties 8, 9 million unused funds and instead of going back there, to say the health home in Sinj, in Makarska skills, here in Makarska we have no more laboratories, we have to go to Split, only now it is solved, there is no radiologist in Makarska, 60,000 tourists on the Makarska Riviera, go from Makarska to Split is so far away, as is the problem from Sinj and these are the problems that should have been resolved by this law to finally solve the homes of health being what they are, health houses in the local environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91341	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91342	That if I expected my colleague Mrssic to solve this, I expected from Minister Kujundzic, who is from the area and who knows the matter well enough to address the Dalmatian problem of health services. The service is the primary service that citizens don't have, they don't. And it's a huge problem of the work of the Republic of Croatia, probably others, but the fact that the largest county has one home of health, it's centralized, it's controlled, and that these surpluses of money you mention are invested in radiologists' specializations, then the radiologist wouldn't have a much higher salary and not from Sinj where rows are waiting, went to Vis, went to Brač, but would have on Brač and Vis radiologists, had diagnostic equipment, would have a connected system, unfortunately he was paying back and paying for who knows whose debts and who knows what he was solving That's why it's now... [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]] The loudest, and he and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] they destroyed the home of health. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91343	We're continuing an individual debate. Comrade Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91344	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The health care law is not a law for healthcare professionals, for doctors, nurses, but a law that is a law for citizens. And what we expected with this law to solve the problems that we know are in health care, so it's not only in primary health care, but also in the hospital system, in the funding system, in the dubiosis that we have in the health system. What we learned, except for a debt that is somewhere around 9 billion, in the first three months, is a debt in health by 310 million kuna. So these are all the things that this law should have at least tried to solve or pave the way for this to be resolved. Is this a reform? It's not. Will this lead to citizens having more available health care? He won't. And when we talk about public health, it's usually in our people, or in some debates, that's the legacy of socialism, that's what the legacy of the former state is, and it's forgotten that the parents of the public health system are English. '948. started and established public health system in England, they celebrate now 70 years and instead of looking up to them because there is a well-developed system and a system based on health homes, on primary health care, and only then at hospitals, we are going to destroy what remains of that primary health care, and these are health homes and we are going to privatise primary health care. The European Commission has made it very clear to us that in Croatia we have a relative rate of poverty above the EU, the expected duration of life is 3 years less than in the EU and has made it clear that we have done nothing in the area of smoking reduction, alcoholism, heart disease, cancer and see the devil, crime, according to them, is in primary health care which, I quote, is well paid and above European average, but does not assume the role of coordinator when it comes to caring for chronic and palitative patients. So the European Commission has already warned us that something is not worth it here, instead of changing it we are going yet, we have tried to go another step further to fully privatise health care and to Americanise health care. The law goes directly there that should not be gone, and this is in public health, in available health care that must be available to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As many times so far, the law is intervened without intervention having anything to do with any new direction or strategic document. At least I didn't see anywhere by the minister or by the ministry that the ministry gave us some kind of strategic document or that the minister said his direction where he thought he needed to take the health system. The minister kept saying I've called all the people, they've said everything they think, then I'll decide what I'm going to take, but that's not the way and direction. What the minister should say is that I, as the Minister of Health, want the health system in Croatia to look like this, like this and like this, but it's not a basket of wishes, so we'll take what we think and what happened now that the concessionaries figured out completely wrong and they thought that this is over, everybody's going to go to privates, everyone's going to become businessmen, they're going to worry about how much profit there is to be in that office as many younger insurance companies who won't spend as much money as possible. The Minister has not announced in any of his address any analysis of the current situation and why he is going to the Americanization of the Croatian health system. Why not look next to us, or look at what is happening in Europe? In Europe, many countries have tried to privatise primary health care. The Swedishs set off a long time ago, 15 years ago, and what the Swedes are doing now, they're doing the opposite, they're taking things back, and they're reintroducing public health because they privatized all the primary health care and they saw that they've spent a huge amount of money because they had to put new funds into primary health care all the time. Companies that were then involved in human treatment were also founded, doctors became primary businessmen, and then secondary or tertiary doctors, and what is Sweden doing now? He's going back to that system. In Poland, which also went into privatisation, the man who ran the system killed himself. Here we have today on the Health Committee, where we have a colleague of the Cells whose profession it is, that the minister is not such a person. But I'm telling you how problematic it is when you go into a system change, and you have no idea what it's going to end up with. Slovenia that went into concessions like we did. They no longer approve of any concessions and are thinking completely of returning from concessions to return to that press model of public health. And if that's not enough for us to assess that this law is not to be further explained, still the minister, because he promised the prime minister that he would make some kind of reform so that it looks that way, here we can see in the pension system what it looks like when the hill is doing it, it goes into something that ultimately won't bring any benefit to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'll remind you of our biggest export brand when we talk about health care, and that's Andrija Stamper. He said a long time ago that a doctor should not be financially dependent on a patient and that is what should have been kept in mind when these changes were being made. I hope that this debate will also result in changes in the second reading, especially when we talk about health privatisation, and I am deeply disturbed by that article 103, which says that up to 23% of the county's health care facility should be up to 25% of the infirmary in the health care sector. I think it should be the least, and if it's going to be any more, that's what we hope it will be. In my opinion, the doctors of concessionaries and doctors who are in the home of health and are doing the same work should be evened out, which is what Slovenia has started to do and this will lead to the solution to this problem. There is also now another major part of this law that is related to tourism where tourism is allowed to enter the health system, but there are no anchors that can happen to us that tourism that will enter our rehabilitation hospitals at large and clinics will lead to our insurance companies being completely squeezed out and will not have the opportunity to reach the necessary healthcare. That's what happens now because if you have someone, here's the last example I've heard, you have a brain attack patient who requires some kind of rehabilitation of a long-term first date that he got from one clinic is nine months, and the second one is about a year away. What I'm asking you is, what kind of rehabilitation is this? And now, if we introduce tourism into where it will clearly go very sharply, and it will be introduced, clearly, that foreign capital will come, we must ensure that the anchors that these clinics or these hospitals will earn from tourism are directed towards that work that needs to meet the needs of our citizens for rehabilitation. I hope that the law in the second reading will look different and that we will return to what we have best in Croatian health, which is Andrija Stampar and his postulates. And I want the Minister, instead of primary health care, to get caught up with the health debt problem and get caught up in a hospital problem because hospitals are the ones that torture the health care system the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91345	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. First up, she's a colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91346	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. You have also asked yourself what the reform is, as I asked the minister what the reform is, what is the step, what do we want? And somehow I think we should always do a good analysis of the existing state. What's good to leave and what's bad to change. Similarly, there are experiences of some other countries that have done and have returned to the past. Based on your experience, it's really not clear to me why we've been trying to make all the time, we have some good foundations, and we don't appreciate these foundations, but we're trying to start all the time. If we have good foundations, if we have a good system and we can all agree that we had a good system and primary health care based on Doctor Andrija Stampar and all the consequences that were [[- Dr. Sc's incursion. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91347	My colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, yes, that's what's missing from this proposal, but what I have to admit was missing from the proposals before, that this proposal doesn't turn out to be the only one now. There is no analysis that this is bad in primary health care and this analysis lacks resolution. We have a solution 1, 2, 3, 4. The minister didn't tell us at any point that, I had the opportunity to make it look like this, like this, I think this solution is best and that's what I expect the minister to say which is his vision of health, how he thinks that health care should look because he's the first head of that resistor. And let's finally see the analysis to see what the resolutions are and what the results are. To say that health care will be more accessible, that citizens will have better availability are flossules that no one trusts and that will not lead to citizens having better health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91348	Thank you. Next replica of colleague Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Mrsic, we have three actors here, so doctors who are calling for choices and a large part of them who advocate privatisation, patients who should be in the centre and who are the most important beneficiaries of quality service and health homes, or directors who complain that this model of further privatisation will significantly reduce revenues. I'm interested in how you would make this model, it seems to me that the story of Andrija Stampar is one ideal as 10 of God's commands that is inapplicable in 2018 in the Republic, and what's another of the things I would legally regulate, so you have the opportunity now, in fact, to go to privates immediately after college. It might be good, though, for those doctors who go to privatisation to be employed at home for a certain period of time before they become private.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91350	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91351	In the first row, I'd say I'm not against private health and I wouldn't condition it. People can go wherever they want after college, they're capable, they have a license to work. As far as this system is concerned, I would return it to what it is, and that primary health care is organised by health homes and that no longer extends concessions and simply that these things go back, but that people who work in health homes have wages like current concessionaries. Because if someone works and has seven and a half thousand kunas, I have a colleague's e-mail that sent me an e-mail saying that it's not fair that he's doing the same job in the morning as a doctor in a health care home, in the same hospital afternoon, a concessionist who has 15,000 kuna. And that's not fair, and that's what the minister should have solved. In my opinion, go back to what it is, that the home of health is the capital of primary health care and that concessions no longer expand. That's my attitude.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91352	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Sinisha Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91353	Here's my thanks. Dear Mrsic, you said at the beginning of your debate that there was a huge debt in the health system and that it had already reached 9 billion kuna, but you did not mention the source of the debt. When we look at all the money with which the health care system was resuscitated in 2016, 2017, we see that almost 100% of the amount went into the hospital health system. The hospital health system is the one that generates great losses. You focused your entire exposure on primary health care which, in the Republic of Croatia for the needs of Croatian citizens, with a large majority of patients are committed to concessionaries over 90%, performs their basic task without generating losses and when surveying patients, patients with 100% satisfaction express satisfaction with family medicine doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91354	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91355	The hospital system is problematic and it's always been, it's been so far, I think 22 recoverys all together, there's been so much recovery in the health care, and we haven't solved the problem. The problem with the solution of Croatian hospitals is something the minister had to offer through this law, whether we need this many hospitals, whether it is necessary to reduce the number of hospitals, whether hospitals should have been organised in another way, and these are some things we should have seen through this law as well. Health care will be lost, it generates 100 million kunas per month because the system needs to be rationalized. The minister who does so will be a minister he will not love very much in Croatia, but will do well for Croatia and will be remembered in the long run by a minister who has reformed the health system. What we have today is not a reform of the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91356	Thank you. Next individual debate, colleague Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91357	Thank you. Well, here we are today, through this debate, crystallizing what you would say we all agree, which is the quality of health care that everyone needs. What is of great importance, of course, is to strengthen our primary health care, and we all agree on that. If it's going to be through the home of health, if it's going to be through these private offices, of course we'll see it in a few years. What I can agree with as a doctor, that all doctors must have the same rights and have the same salary, or that we cannot share them with home, private, or hospital doctors. Unfortunately, so far doctors in the home of health have been paid with the basic salary of doctors medicine, it is about 7500 kuna or if they are specialists it was something more. Of course, they work equally, both domestic family doctors and concessionaries do. If we're going to get lucky employees from our home doctors with this stimulation, that's what we'll see. I know that your intention has been good with these stimulations, but of course it will depend on the health director himself whether they will pay it out as we expect them to. Through this law, mobile offices have been introduced. I just don't understand how these mobile offices are going to work since we're already in a lot of trouble right now. They should go to those areas that are not available, but if you go to Banovina or Lika, you will see that some patients cannot be reached on foot, let alone with any car. Another thing that interests me here, I think, through these mobile offices, a doctor would have to go, but we still have today, and in family practices that every doctor should, and his obligation is to visit his patients. Will it then be through, will it overlap the activities of the mobile office and the family doctor himself? How will the mobile office itself be arranged, who will we hire in them? So that's where one new set of questions is now being asked. What we should certainly welcome is that all our patients should have available and quality health care that would probably be achieved in this way. What needs to be solved, and which is why my county has a big problem, it's a paliatical health care. I believe that other counties have a big problem with this, because given the number of hospital beds we have for the palitative, it is certainly not enough and enough, and the mobile teams unfortunately cannot cover all of our population. I would return just a little bit more to primary health care because by empowering it, I personally consider as a hospital doctor, that one part of the contagion may still exist and that is stimulated by the HZZO that three hospitals can function together, that one form of specialist consular health care can be developed there and thus relieve the hospital system. Of course, the hospital system needs to be available and it needs the power to come, but in principle it comes really when needed and when their primary family doctor estimates it. Whether our hospital doctors will be stimulated at the end of the day with this measure of yours, we'll see the same thing. But as someone who works in the hospital system, I have to admit that my colleagues, not only work overtime, not only stay behind their duty, but often I wonder what our quality of work is if we work so much overtime as we can rest, as much as we can give our patient? Here I will give you an example of a gynecology that works with six specialists, and to cover the service, to work all the polyclinic work with those six specialists is very difficult sometimes to cover duty and therefore we need external associates. What we introduced, I think it's something good, although we couldn't cover everything in our hospital, we couldn't provide our patients with quality health care in one part, we managed to win, I would say it to a mobile doctor who comes in certain days and with our doctors performs certain complicated operations. I think we set a good example that our patients don't have to wait long at the clinics, that they can get the same operation at a small hospital, that they have very good accommodation and very good treatment there. Here's a kind of thing where we made a step forward because we knew that we couldn't provide what our patients needed. I believe that some of our other colleagues and our medical institutions will move in that direction and will try to make it possible for patients where they live, to have everything they need available there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91358	I thank my esteemed colleague, Josic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91359	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, Josic, in your first part of the exhibition, you immediately said that you do not know how to achieve the basic primary health care in view of the growing number of doctors, given the situation that is and that is what should be done through these, so there is no magic wand and no one can solve this problem at all, but let's see which direction to solve this problem, which is to enable all our citizens, regardless of where they live, to have the right to some basic things and to take care of it. And the fact that we have, we have as few doctors as possible. What do you do, in which direction do you give? Of course, we're asking both the Secretary-General and this law to at least predict some scenarios and these scenarios here unfortunately we don't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91360	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. Thank you very much. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Ivan Celic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91361	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Josic, today the most talk is about primary health care, but it seems to me that we have focused a large majority of these discussions on family medicine doctors, and we know very well that there are major problems and as regards paediatric health care, as regards women's health care, hence the lack of gynecology specialists, as well as students of school medicine who work in the public health care department, which are very important segments and it is impossible to talk about both demographic renewal and child health care without school medicine specialists. You come from the Sisak-Moslavina County so you know best what the situation on the ground is in the area, but I think that should also be discussed in the framework of the draft Health Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91362	I thank my esteemed colleague, Cellic. Answer, esteemed colleague Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91363	Thank you. Dear colleague, that's right. We all know that, colleague Dark-Taritash, she made it very clear that we lack doctors. What in my county is the biggest problem, although it is very close to Zagreb that doctors come to us, do their specialization and go to clinics. Although they are necessary for us and if we have had certain contracts, unfortunately we have received only endless lawsuits that do not go in favour of institutions, nor for the benefit of healthcare professionals, or doctors. And as a result of this, we have Croatia's Kostanica, which has lost its pediatrician, and for many years we have been struggling to get a pediatrician into that area, we have lost our gynecologist in Dvor and in Croatia Kostanica, which is unfortunately our burning problem. Are we going to deal with this health care bill? I believe we'll still attract young people who are ready to come to that end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91364	I thank my colleague Josic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91365	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister and an honorary colleague from the ministry. On Thursday, we got a draft of the Health Protection Act on the bench. It's not about changing and supplementing, it's about a whole new law, and I have to say that we've been given a week to order what's an extremely short term, but here, I'm going to try to in my individual debate, touch a few topics that are important for this debate. I'd actually go in line from the draft of the law itself, but I'd start from one part at the very beginning, or... discusses the evaluations and sources of resources necessary for the implementation of the law itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, before we got to the benches of this law, we got, publicly carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a national reform programme in 2018, where the chapter is, if I am not mistaken, the financial stability and sustainability of the quality of the health system, with a stable view of this draft law is quoted almost in each of the second paragraphs of the law itself. I must commend the ministry that he has managed to match this document with this document and can read very well with each other. However, in the tabled display, it was said that significant funds would be saved, rationalised, transferred to financial deficits in health systems. For example. The primary health care will save 15% of the funds with the application of this law. However, in an assessment of the resources needed to implement this law, it says everything will remain the same. In fact, it has been said that all activities undertaken and the law annexed are within the framework of the means of insurance to implement the applicable health care law. So only the ministry says that according to the applicable law, this law does not make any changes. And in fact, when he read me every detail of this bill, we have to admit that the big gap from the public debate, what was available in the media, what certain members of the working groups were declared about the course of the smog of work making drafts of the new law, and I have to say that it was embodied, it peopleally, let's change everything, but in a way that everything stays the same. We see that there has actually been a major retardation or abandonment of reform measures, which would essentially change the health system, so I would just make a few remarks, a few of them are nomotechnical and are not essentially something, for example. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3. I would suggest a second paragraph, which says, that a body that is asked to deliver an opinion within 30 days or considered positive, instead of taxing itself in each other's articles in the ministry itself, because there di says, the competent chamber must give an opinion, then it must be repeated all the time, so it can be united in one place. Then it's in Art. Article 11(3) speaks of the obligations of units of regional self-government and then we see in paragraph 4 that the asset for investment investment, for investment and ongoing maintenance, and the information of health activities referred to in paragraph 3 means for local and regional self-government units, will be the basis for planning support from the national budget of the Republic of Croatia once a year brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This means that they will only receive support from those owned by local and regional self-government. That this is about the economy, for example. I don't know how the businessmen would react to say that state aid can only go to state-owned companies. I think that half of the state, with a strong reaction and that this kind of discrimination that is mentioned here, and I can even say that it has been prescribed from previous laws, is not the novelty of the new minister, but it is certainly something that needs to be changed. I'd like to compliment you. 20, relating to functional integration and functional integration of hospitals, however, I believe that the way it is defined in the law, that it is relatively barren and very softly written and very difficult to implement, is to use a legal provision for functional merger to that level, which is needed to lead to any effect. And I know that, for the simple reason that we, we didn't have a solid legal basis for functional hospital merger and resistance at the local hospital director's level, at the doctor's level, if we even, departments, heads of individual departments, the resistance is so great because... Facultative bargaining on their part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, this law should be a little hard-wired until the second reading. When we move forward through the law, we see in art. 28. item 2. Col. Celic unfortunately left us, however, there he would have made an observation, related to health activities, in the field of health promotion, disease prevention and protection of metal health, can be carried out by unhealthy workers. I know very well what was thought of here, perhaps this should then be decided so then say that psychologists also take part in the protection of metal health, however, today's situation, and Colic mentioned this in his debate, that the protection of metal health of addicts is carried out at the level of county public health institutions and very often, and not carried out by psychiatrists. And very often almost in any case, methadone therapy is divided by no psychiatrists, or, by chance, who accidentally finds himself near the infirmary when an addict comes to his therapy, then given to him in a way that's often quite critical, unprofessional and we've had more cases of being an addict, collecting and collecting methadones, brought home so the children ate, so they've guessed, died, more things have happened because of the inextricable use of methadone therapy. Therefore, when it comes to the protection of metal health, there is still a lower level, and it is said that not only can any doctor, but anyone and not a health care professional who is in a health care facility can do so. When we talk about Article 30, when we list tax-based health care at the primary level of all activities, I do not know why we continue to insist on adding (generally) family medicine as an esteemed name in the Croatian healthcare system, I do not know why more should be added in brackets, especially when we have a specialization in family medicine. Two activities are not mentioned, I will only mention that it is to be considered whether optometric laboratory should be mentioned, when dental laboratories are already mentioned, whether optometric laboratories need to be raised to a higher level and also mentioned to them as health care, which is provided through these activities. When we look at Article 37, we talk about pharmaceutical activity, I think it is a clumsy statement in Article 2 because the pharmacy is carried out according to its licence when it is limited to this sentence that the pharmaceutical activity is carried out only as part of the public health service network, then what we have under the drug law and certain rules that allow specialist shops to issue medicines that are not on the prescription but which must be provided by the pharmacist. Therefore, this pharmaceutical activity and what the pharmacist does... is done exclusively today in the pharmacy itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then I'd just say in exorcism that pharmacies are established only as part of a network of public activity and not as a restriction of pharmaceutical activity. I would also like to commend the inclusion of telemodec and mobile healthcare. It's good to regulate it like this. Articles 39 and 40 speak about health tourism because the first attempt to regulate it is good for now. I look forward to the right to see how this will be prescribed for everything related to the norms and activities that should be fulfilled to provide health tourism in Croatian health care. Here, the time of 10 minutes has passed very quickly, when everything related to primary health care is here I can only comment on that primary health care, the first initiatives by the ministry were good, unfortunately there has been abandonment and when it is said that the definition of insanity is always doing the same thing and at the same time expecting different results. We have the status quo that will be held now x number of years and unfortunately there will be no improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91366	I thank my esteemed colleague, Varga. We have two replicas, a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91367	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Varga you were Minister and here I am reading some of your achievements where in 2015 the payment of hospitals was introduced after execution, more effective bargaining, the use of HZZO resources, transparent monitoring of the work done, services provided to patients, promotion of efficiency and investment, are a reduction of waiting lists. That was the way to pay by outcome, by greater quality. It was all stopped in 2016 when the debts exploded. Can you compare today's moment of Croatian health with the moment when you stopped being a minister?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91368	Thank you. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91369	Here I am, when I mentioned the National Reform Programme, then I was very happy to read the 2016 National Reform Programme, so HDZ's government took a look at 2015 and the praises related to all the achievements were taxed amongst others and what you were saying. Unfortunately, 2016, in 2017, there was no realisation of anything listed in the national reform programme. Now we have a new one for 2018, a lot is contained, regarding this law, but the question is, what effect will it have in the application of these provisions. It's very much dependent on the rules that come out of this law. If I'm not mistaken, I think the said rulebook is 48 times, therefore, the department's professional services have a lot of work to do now to define all these regulations that will do so. But in the meantime, debts will only grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91370	I thank my esteemed colleague, Varga. Next replica, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91371	Dear colleague Varga, I apologize for reacting loudly to your lapus, but we are colleagues, so I know that you are closer to English than Croatian, but I ask that both colleagues and colleagues respect it. What I really came forward for is, do you think a colleague should give positive experience in the work of health homes in the light of this law? Namely, according to my information, they're the founders of the county's health homes. There are also, some efforts to improve the conditions for the work of doctors and health care professionals regardless of whether they are employed in a home of health or are concessionaries, while some potentially positive results in the business of health homes return to their founders for general consumption. I think that primarily this law should have good examples, examples of good practice and follow them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91372	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Just to let you know, there's something wrong with our electronics, so we'll use your cell phone to make time, so you know, I'll warn you when you're close. Here you go, colleague Varga.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91373	Thank you, Mr. Hrelja. Well, here we have, Croatia has 20 counties and it has 49 homes of health, it's extremely colorful, I have experience with individuals directors, with organizations, with relations of the county to its own institutions, and that's something that this law cannot unify, so I would appeal de facto to the ministry to respect Article 135. The constitution says that it should be left to the local administration and self-government and that it should also take responsibility for its actions. We have a situation in some county that really bothers them that they're being imposed... 30% today 25% limit how much a concessionary should be compared to an employee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Others cry for more, cry for more out of their particular interests. And now here is the concrete Split-Dalmatia County, for funds that it had available and returned home to the county, neutrally and we know how badly equipped the offices... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91374	I thank my esteemed colleague Varga for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91375	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, there's a proposal for a Health Protection Act in front of us in the first reading. It is good that this bill is in the first reading because I believe that the many proposals and remarks you have heard today and that will certainly be made during the summer until the second reading, will be incorporated into the new law. What we all want from the new law is that it is a quality, modern law that will be at least 10 if not 20 years in this form, you can certainly be some minor changes but I guess that's our common goal. In fact, only stability gives us security and in order to preserve quality personnel, in order for young staff to be directed to specific specializations, etc., they need to feel the security and stability of the system. In fact, there are many good features of this law, and it is certain that when it was written that we could see that some of the guidelines that the Ombudsman had also given us in her 2017 report also made it clear that the accessibility of health services is particularly bad in islands and remote areas, so that we now have both district infirmarys and mobile offices. It is good that now it is possible to reward the average quality and efficient healthcare professionals because it was sad that someone who specializes in a hospital without duty gets 9000 kn, at the same time someone in a private office again without duty gets with 30,000 and more kuna. Also, this rent payment was all 1200 kn whether it was the city center or some less attractive settlements, of course it brought these doctors less funds. I also welcome the provisions of the laws relating to health tourism, namely yesterday we had amendments and additions to the Law on Food Activity in which we also included the provisions and opportunities of health tourism, so far we have all talked a lot about it, and then in practice it was seen that a stranger who was coming to use any health services in Croatia received 2 bills, one of the health care institutions for health care services and another of some travel agency if it was a transfer, accommodation, etc. However, there is still a need, a place for a law that will be even more modern, which, as I said, will see our health care in the future. From telemedicine to some new professions, we know that the growing problem is here, for example. The law predicts so-called law. Teams 1 and teams 2 emergency medical services. So team 2 doesn't have a doctor in its system. Those technicians who go out on the field sure should have special skills and experiences higher than they have now in this education. Speaking of emergency medical services, I would say that it would be good to take a look at how to organize a sanitary transport. If there's any accident on the scene, the ambulance comes first. The E.R. has very well equipped which is both right and people who are best educated to provide this first aid to the unhappy. But then they come to a united hospital emergency reception. If it is found to be a slightly more difficult case that must go further I do not know, for Split, Zadar, Zagreb, I am now talking about my Sibenik-Knin County, then we have to hire a home of health, meaning the director of the health home who will see who is on call, with which vehicle most often something less equipped. I think it's a waste of both time and money and we're losing quality, so here's my suggestion to think a little bit about the changes in that work. Furthermore, I mentioned health tourism, and now there is the possibility that a healthcare institution will provide and perform a catering or tourist activity, but there are some activities that are based on and which would be also very good to classify, e.g. parking activities. If a guest came to this health care service, then it would be good to enable him, of course, with a charge, and as an additional income to a health care facility parking lot. Another thing that will be current in due course is the destruction of infectious waste. It will certainly work, but it would be good to enable them, of course, with additional income and to take care of it from their county and some other entities. In this section and in this law, it seems to me that hospitals are as detailed and well processed as they could and should be. I have seen and I would have joined what my colleague said about the administrative council and members, I would not quite agree that someone who doesn't have 5 years of medical experience cannot contribute as a member of the board of directors of hospitals because I don't know, and economists and lawyers come very well when giving advice or deciding on these issues. We still have the possibility that units of local self-government to have a better quality of service to their citizens or guests if it is a tourist settlement that can finance something above that minimum, I would also take advantage of this opportunity because a lot of this has been talked about, talked about, we had protests in Vodice about emergency medical services, we need to reiterate that Vodice is here, 500 thousand kunas per year to have that service, which means that those who protested are also financially in a situation that they can, so they could solve their problem in such a way. Let's get back to private offices and family doctors. When I said that it would be good for this law to be like this for as long as possible, I thought of you as an example. Private concessionaries of family medicine feel safe because it happened for example. that those who were willing to invest and 30 thousand euros for the LVV that they did it because at that time it was allowed to work outside the limit and to get some funds for it. Then after that, there was a change, so it couldn't be out of bounds anymore, and we know about one UZV review from having to educate, to buy one of these devices most often raised and credit assets, it's only 75 kuna. It would be good if the doctor who decides to do so felt certain that nothing would change. Also, if a young person wants to go in that direction, it means to specialize in family medicine, to know that in due course it is possible to report to a competition, to rent space in some place, and to move in that direction. Maybe he'd rather specialize in just family medicine. Competitions have been opened in Sibenik-Knin County, European specialisation funds have been provided. No one came forward from our county to specialize in family medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91376	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have a few replicas. The first replica of a respected colleague, Romana Jerkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91377	Thank you very much. Comrade Yurichev, I am happy to give you one more minute to pass your optimism on to me because I really miss him when it comes to this law. I hope I don't get you into an awkward situation, but that's not my intention, but I have to ask you. I personally think the current health system has a lot of problems, it's financially unstable, treatment outcomes are worse, nurses and doctors are leaving, waiting lists are growing, we don't have a national specialization plan, we haven't solved the doctor's hours and nurses, health care isn't available to everyone in the same way, we don't do anything at all. My question to you, do you agree that these are objective and realistic problems in Croatian health and others, do you think this law will be the kind of thing that can be solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91378	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91379	Thank you very much. My colleague Jerkovic, I just said in my first sentence, that I am glad that it is in the first reading, that we need a good modern law and that many suggestions and remarks will be resolved eventually until the second reading. However, the truth is that the health system has a lot of problems, something is trying to solve, or a lot is trying to solve this Law. However, when you mentioned the waiting lists, you could see in the report by the Ombudsman for 2017, she said that in 2017, 35742 patients were ordered more than 2016 for diagnostic treatment procedures, which means it is impossible for waiting lists to be less. Only this figure even more burdens those existing waiting lists. I'm sure we didn't have any more doctors in 2017 compared to 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91380	I thank my colleague Juričev-Martinchev for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja, come in. He's gone, you're out. Thank you. Dear colleague Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91381	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague. This is what you mentioned in article 106 regarding the lease in the home of health. You were talking about experience from before. In fact, if you remember, there used to be a rent of 1250 kuna and 0 concessions, if he was in a home of health. The Constitutional Court made a decision that this must be even with everyone and then there was an explosion of the lease by the director of the health care homes. Then they began to bid on who, de facto, could move more from the concessionaires of the lease, even more so, the Ministry of Finance still imposed VAT on all of it. However, HZZO has the exact value of the team, how much the team is worth, and these costs enter into the calculative value of the team. So this way that it's written in 106 causes cost increases, not savings for the health care system, but everything will go from only state level to local level.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91382	I thank my esteemed colleague, Varga. Answer, dear colleague of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91383	My colleague Varga, the real doctors of family medicine who now have private concessions are in a different position than everyone else, so I'd say privates. For example. They pay 1200 kuna, and then at the same time they ask that the city or the municipality or that same home of health arranges for them sanitary nodes, arranges the premises, closes the hatches, while e.g. Normal other privates do it all themselves. Now, surely that the home of health that must invest in a certain space, he found some model to do well and provide because we know in what way and how much they get from their county and county budgets.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91384	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91385	Thank you very much. Well, esteemed colleagues, you mentioned health tourism in your debate, and here we can see that articles 39 and 40. The law regulates that. I am particularly pleased that this will now be arranged and the law itself would like to point out that we know that it is extremely important and I believe that the minister and his associates will record it, whether by law or by sublegal law, determine that health institutions that will provide health tourism, to determine how much of their capacities they can use for health tourism and how much rehabilitation they normally carry out because we now have a situation that uses a lot more capacity precisely for health tourism and that people who need rehabilitation can't come in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91386	I thank my colleague Lukacic. Answer, colleague Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91387	Thank you very much. So, colleagues Lukačić, who are currently standing, will be able to carry out those activities provided that healthcare institutions or private healthcare professionals do not additionally burden healthcare professionals in view of their capacities and provided that this is not at the expense of the patient institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91388	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91389	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, here's a colleague before me who said that health tourism is a good thing that he was introduced into the law and that health institutions have income from the title of health tourism. We as a tourist country must consider ways and models as well as other special forms of tourism to develop and one of these special forms of tourism is health tourism and surely it will contribute to Croatia's position as a tourist country on the map of supply and demand and we will arrive from that title no longer, but it is not to the contrary that here and the complaint of the patient association has just gone in this direction that priority should be given to domestic patients, that foreign tourists who have more money should not be in front of the domestic patient and the domestic man, and therefore here is another appeal that the quality rules of the offices and that our patient's health service should not be less accessible due to health tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91390	Thank you, colleague Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91391	Thank you very much. I think we all agree that priority should be taking care of our citizens and then just making money and guests. I am sure that underlaws will also regulate such a thing so that it does not go at the expense of our citizens and yet we get a certain walk so that these losses that we now have are smaller.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91392	Thank you for your response. The next replica is a respected colleague of Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91393	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned the number of infirmarys, which are now foreseen in this law that health homes are up to 25% of the office. Before that was 30%, and I think a lot of colleagues here who mention the problem here say that from the point of view of urban areas where they don't even consider that some areas of Croatia are a relatively populated particular issue of the island where many young doctors don't want to go at all which is the same big problem, where it should be stimulated in some way that doctors go and that they can be rewarded in a certain way. In addition, the issue of tourist areas where emergency medical services are needed in the tourist season is much more common than under normal conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91394	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91395	Thank you very much. The truth of my colleague Peric, the new law provides for up to 25% of the office to remain in the home of health, with due respect to doctors who work higher and better, but most often it is the case that doctors who have fewer patients, who are in less attractive places, remain under the health care system, those who have more patients and more attractive locations, decide and open their private offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91396	Thank you for your response. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Željka Josic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91397	Thank you. Well, I'd refer to the ER, here's the county, I'd say one brighter example, and I don't think you should be afraid, team one, team two. I've been working in this health care system a little longer, and I've been through urgent medical care, family medicine, and secondary health care, so I can say that she used to look like an ambulance. What we have achieved is that our team 2 is educated, that these are top techs, some of which have been further educated, have become more nurses or technicians, can do very well on Team 2 what team 2 requires, and we have had a lot of bright examples on the ground where they have done their job in quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91398	Thank you. Answer, colleague Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91399	Thank you very much. My colleague Josic, I'm not personally afraid, but I must say that the citizens are here for example. specifically the town of Vodice when they saw that the new network of Vodice belonged to a t2 team, which means without a doctor, they were thinking as if we had not received an ambulance or an emergency service, so we decided on those 500 000 kn that we separate more from the budget, we have t1. But that was why the municipality of Tisno protested even in front of our administrative building without a view of what the t2 team had, they felt it wasn't, when the doctor didn't come when they needed it most.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91400	Thank you for your response. Let's move on to the next debate, dear fellow professor. Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to welcome the present Minister Kujundzic with my associates, and I welcome the representatives of the doctors primarily of primary health care who were here over 20 hours ago at the gallery, I don't know how much left now, left the president of the concessionary's association in primary health care. I would also like to welcome all workers, health professionals who, for the reasons of their humanity and humanity, make a really great effort to provide patients with maximum quality of service despite being paid. Today we are discussing a proposal for the Health Law. In the beginning, it should be said immediately that the Croatian people have a tradition of public, solidarity health which should be accessible to everyone, quality and me as a representative, and also the party Change Croatia from this does not deviate. So that's the principle we're going to follow. But here we need to clarify some things because here certain opinions are given, a certain argument that simply prevents the further development of the health system, and we can see that the mental set in the minds of some of the debates and MPs is simply in the past. Right here, we're against the so-called. Americanization, tycoonization, privatisation. He who intends to develop, to build private health institutions, to choose, to have a wide field, but to finance it with his money, to be in charge. But there are no worse things than working in public health, and that money or turning public health patients into their private, let's say private spaces. It is an incestual relationship and we in the party will change Croatia against it. But we can see that strong lobbys are working on it right now. When it comes to primary health care status, it needs to be done by the highest number of doctors, but this is not true, the majority of doctors work in secondary healthcare. So when you come to a doctor in primary health care because they're not diagnostic specialist centres, they just give you a manual and when you get to the hospital you get sick if you're not sick when you see you don't have a place to park, it's like a station, it's not a health care system, it's a messy system, I'm sorry I'm gonna say it's a barn in a conveyed sense of the word. If the primary health care system had been arranged, it wouldn't have been, and what does that mean? If we have to give primary health care a first line of defense to the health of the people of the citizens, we have to give it the role it needs to play. What does that mean? This means that it cannot be singled out only 3.4 billion kuna from the total expenditures of the health system on primary health care. Developed regulated countries that protect and develop primary health care, they single out 30% to 40% of total expenditure on primary health care. It's a concept that we want to go, which we propose to the minister to go into it bravely, to finally say here's the reform, the real reform. So far, no one has launched a proper reform of the health system. What happens now? When he set out to do so and in the first version offered a solution to primary health care, political centres of power appeared. When is... he also wanted to allow home doctors to declare what they wanted, to choose according to the Constitution to have the right, and not to have concessionaires be suspended constitutionally, to be considered Malta not as after the war what was considered to be these towers by Slavonia peasants that they are cults, so these people want to declare that they simply want to make tycunisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are resistances and why is there a strong desire to maintain the existing state? Well, it's because the health care system is over-netified with politics. In primary health care, it's important for the mayor to have someone pull him by the hand as well as the mayor, the chief, to train him something. One is a huge delusion, beware, the chieftain for each is the same for both home doctors and concessionaries. However, does not receive a poor home doctor the same salary as a concessionary you know why? So you need to settle your income so that the great administration that works here you know. On the other hand, concessionaries 20 to 30% save more than the same services they receive, which they do in relation to home doctors. Let's not talk cheerleading about it, we have to watch the patient, there must be no waiting, there must be quality. And what did we come up with? We've come to have patients who are like on the current tape 3 minutes out, and now they say there's going to be mobile hospitals, so about a patient will run while the door is open to someone to put a tablet in his hand or some bag yes. Let's not play with that. Life space in Croatia is at risk. With more and more villages, we have a shortage of doctors. People will move where they are protected. This is a paraxelant issue of national security and we must, the party We change Croatia will do well to fight to get rid of it. Is there enough money in health care, Mr. Minister? There is. I'm an economist. 23 billion swears to stand out, and you know what that is? That's seven and a half percent of our gross domestic product, that's the European average, but we can't put that much money in a bag where there's no bottom. Which means the money's leaking, where's the leak? In public procurement, through the lobbies that work here, hospitals are unrelated, every hospital has its own software, so it's amazing how inefficient the system is. I've calculated, I don't have time to present these calculations in detail, I can significantly increase the wages to doctors, nurses if we can get rid of these things that I've said, so that's where radical changes are to be made. However, in order to implement radical changes, health policy should be moved. Consider the example of Split-Dalmatia County. You have a home of health downstairs in Split where HDZ Mayor recently replaced his HDZ because they did not elect the director of the home of health they should have chosen, imagine. So where are we people? And now it means they'll work, choose until they pass by to bring in a man who will. Well, that's the policy we've got to get going and move on one new direction. Mr. Minister, you have an extraordinary opportunity to overcome these particular interests, these interests of the group, hit the table for all of us citizens because the issue of health is not a party issue, this is a question for every individual citizen, national security. We want the health system to work, to have over-health care deal primary for hospitals to do their jobs, and for tertiary research to be in place. Someone mentioned Ireland, there's a building of 14 health centers and they're going to be just that diagnostic specialist center. But we see that there are still groups who want to keep their niches, their shells, out of public bags of money for their own benefit. We've got to stop it. It doesn't matter who's in any home, or where. In that sense, things need to change significantly. So imagine, only in the health system is accounting, where at the end of the year, you have one result, and a few months later, a completely different result. It's billions of kuna, it's a nakaradna system. I've been looking and looking for a HZZ database that is a health care employee's paycumulative, you don't have that information, so it can't work. Let's finally start solving this open question together, savings can be enormous, doctors are satisfied we need young people, specialists, to specialize in keeping them, and patients have a higher quality of health services. I invite you, Mr. Minister, to get the strength, to keep the first variant, which was offered to the public, to return it to her again, because otherwise it's already being said, that you have kept this range of 0-25% of the share of home doctors at the pressure of the current mayor Bandic, for the City of Zagreb, because otherwise you would have denied assistance in building a hospital in Blato. Let's fight it together, you'll get support for it, not only, but all of us here. So, to return our fundamentals to this question, there's enough money in the health care system, we shut those holes down, we cut them off, we move health policy and we make a health system that is suitable for the 21st century.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91402	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91403	Dear fellow Lovrinovic, I have two remarks, first of all, we are not mayors from... I was the mayor, not the mayors happy that as you say they're being dragged by someone by the sleeve, so they can manage health care. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's what the law has given the mayors a commitment, and I guess the people are choosing the mayor, just like the MPs, so we can't bet that we're something bigger and more important. We should listen, we'll pass laws, we won't give the mayors or answer for what the law has imposed on them. You also mentioned the case of the Split Dalmatian County, so the mayor did not bring anyone, but someone who is already there and who is working, we can say whether he worked quality or not and the success he had or did not have success, but the mayor is responsible, by law he is responsible for health care. And now you want to portray the mayor as some hateful, ruthless politician who creates something there, so it's his legal responsibility. Just as it is for you to vote, you do not vote here to participate in a debate over some law. Do not engage in mud on these people, who are chosen by the people and who have the legitimacy of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91404	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader, my colleague Lovrinovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91405	Dear colleague Sanader, of course, I can see that you're affected by these arguments, which I'm making up, so I didn't make this up, you understand. Therefore, if the mayor of HDZ changes the entire administrative council for this, which is also HDZ's because they did not select the man you claim to be doing excellently, then there is something fat wrong. And you don't need to protect people at all costs it doesn't benefit, they don't benefit from it citizens, you have to choose people, according to the quality criteria, not party similarities, so that you can simply edit the relationship, so the thing is quite clear. We're moving health policy, and she's the entire health system is unfortunately networked by politics. And we won't be able to get out of this health situation that's burdened until we figure it out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91406	I thank my respected colleague, Lovrinovic, next colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91407	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Lovirović, you mentioned that there is money in health care and that it is used irrationally especially through public procurement, for the purchase of medicines, reagents, equipment, etc. Well, here I agree with you, and I have an example of a patient, whom the specialist referred to on a search in Austria, because he couldn't do here. The search is called a gastropanel that costs 40 euros there, and we still don't have it, although it's fast, cheap and efficient and we don't know why. On the other hand, she ran 64 more tests, paid 680 euros, and only one search of those she did there costs 700 kn. So it's a question of her and... the question of where are these differences, who is getting these equipment, these medicines, and the regression and why they are so much more expensive in Croatia than outside. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91408	Thank you for your response, colleague Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91409	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovicu, you really set a great example, it can't stand the health system or a lot of richer countries what you're saying. Send it there, send it here, take it, take it again, take it again, no communication. There's something good about our health care, and this is e-health, e-recept. It's an excellent thing, it could be our export product. I commend all those, and here's former Minister Varga, I've heard that from people, objectively, he's started some good things. You need to keep working on it. Let us not look at who did what, but encourage one another to continue what is right, to make it our export product. So we can't do that. It says here that doctors from hospitals, afternoon, should even work in primary health care. So in 2017 they built in the hospital system over 3 million hours of work, overtime, it simply, it's against the law, they're not paid for it. Well, they can't just work for humanity, we have to change that relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91410	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91411	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My personal view is that this law has not come out of the ministry, it brings contradictions, a lot of doubt, essentially nothing important solves and there is simply no reform potential that we expected it to have. Today on the Committee I heard that the Law without social dialogue was put on e-consultation, so when we take into account that more than 5300 objections have arrived on the content of the Law, I think it is justified to ask the question whether the profession was involved in the drafting of this Law at all. And if we take, or if we exclude the original plan with primary health care from which public pressure had to give up, the law is actually with minor changes regardless of the 5300 objections released in the follow-up procedure. And it's no wonder you won't reach consensus. It's more than clear from the debates and on behalf of clubs and individual ones, which I think is a real shame because one bad practice continues. In addition, it was logical as counterpart Jovanovic mentioned earlier that this law would also be passed with other health laws such as the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Since that hasn't happened unfortunately, we can expect who knows what in the future. Who knows which direction, primarily in terms of funding in which direction they will go all together for both the system and the Croatian patients. It's easy for me to assume that the minister if you failed an attempt at primary health care this law actually remains as a sort of wild card in the sleeve that might surprise us quite embarrassingly. But we stay and wait and see. What was supposed to be our goal together? My personal view is that the goal should be the financial sustainability of the system, the quality of the system, the preservation of patients' rights, and the satisfaction of all those who are employed in the system. We need patients because of them, of course, the whole system exists. We also need to give them quality effective health care, it must be available to everyone. We need to provide them with preventive very effective prevention programs and extend quality years of life, and we must also have important employees because without them the health system simply cannot exist. These are all elements that should have been seriously considered and understood how much each of these individual elements is an objective real problem today in the Croatian health system, they should have been dealt with. Like I said, health can't be goods, so who has salaries, who doesn't, who's to blame. No one can convince me of the benefits of private health over public health. Public health is actually what we've defined ourselves for, and that's what we need, public health and cheaper and more effective and fairer. Once again, we must not make the goods of health. Only public health provides us with free treatment and gives us certainty that in the event of a disease we will not fall on a beggar stick. Only public health can provide us with prevention and early detection of the disease. Only public health can come to all those living on Mosor and those living on Papuk and what I said before and on Pelješac and on Korčula. Public health alone provides both solidarity and equality for which I would personally advocate. So public health is what we need to develop and perfect. The problems in the hospital system and their resolution are being resolved through all the discussions so far. You can tell that's what's bothering you. Everyone pointed out this problem because the hospital system is considered to be unwarranted. A major and real problem unwarranted, a problem that is convulsing in debt and which is difficult to function. I personally think that the hospital system should have been a priority because when we solve it, the primary health care issue that needs to be strengthened to ensure its availability throughout the country will be resolved. Like I said, expectations from the law were very high. For example. This legislative proposal mentioned resolving the remuneration of workers for the net average results. Again, unfortunately, it remained on some kind of declarative level although a good idea is a really good idea, but it wasn't worked out. I'm not even going to ask what the net average score means, how it's going to be measured, by the basis of which criteria, normative, what about those that perform below average results. Once again, we come to the need for the existence of time-restrictive human code. This has been said in Croatia for a very long time and there are no norms and clinical guidelines. Can't move that from a dead end. We all agree it's important, but there's just no solution. So here's the doctor's overtime, and that's what we agree is a big problem, we heard from our colleagues a little while ago. The Croatian system lacks a lot of doctors, a lot of things are done on the basis of enthusiasm, but you have to pay people. If people work, you have to pay them. And we not only haven't solved it, but we're also penalizing and criminally processing doctors for so-called. illegal overtime. I don't think it was a bad proposal for the Croatian medical chamber. Here we heard today and on the board of colleagues complained that all the proposals were rejected, too bad, I think they were just offering a solution for the doctor's overtime. Well, I actually said a lot of things in the debate and on behalf of the club, and I think the law just needs a lot of work because it's unspeakable, in some parts of it it's a little confusing and contradictory, discriminating, and I said why. I don't think we should have gone into a partial solution to the problem because there was a loss of vision and a wider picture or interest in the system as a whole. I believe it was necessary to listen a little more to the profession, I think it was necessary to listen to the social partners and pass a law that would be in the interest of all stakeholders in the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91412	I thank my esteemed colleague, Jerkovic. We've got a few replicas, a respected colleague, Marco Vedligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91413	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's my colleague Jerkovic, through your debate, you have emphasized the importance of public health, so I think one of the backbones of public health must be the homes of health. We heard today through the debate here in fact many bad examples of the functioning of the homes of health, I will say that in Krapina-Zagorje there is a good example of the functioning of the home health which has been recording positive financial results for several years and perhaps we should stress these examples more. What people who, or persons who are authorised to manage the counties, who have received the trust of the citizens, are very concerned because today the function of the health care homes of the system is being weakened not only through what I said earlier that the minister is now appointed by members of the board of directors but also through actually one authority given to himself by the minister, which is as much as 48 regulations to be passed within 6 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91414	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesligai. Answer, colleague Jerkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91415	We were as smart as Slovenians, but we weren't. The Slovenians kept what was good from the former system, and we, I would say, destroyed good things. We know what once the homes of health were, what they represented, what they were doing. And we know that we used to be a much healthier nation and we can make a correlation between prevention programs, so prevention in the global world and what we are today as a nation when we talk about health. I think that health homes should not be abolished in any way, however, should give them the opportunity to do things that, as counterpart Lovrinovic said, are a matter of national interest, it is a matter of national security. Health is of national interest. This is indeed one of the greatest social values, and health homes can play a role in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91416	I thank my esteemed colleague Jerkovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91417	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm glad you mentioned that during the public debate there were over 5,000 objections to the profession and what you pointed out, I agree with you that public health actually has no alternative but our health care if we look from the citizens' point of view is de facto public health because it is paid by all people through contributions. So by paying through contributions we don't expect from that moment of return service and by that definition it's public health. What bothers me, what the minister said today, to protest the doctor, that it was a storm in a glass of water. It bothers me because here it wants to be shown that doctors are the ones who want to privatise health care. No, they just want to have clear criteria, whether they're in concessions, whether they're in health homes but they have to have clear conditions and clear limits of their activities, so at least I see it and in the debate I'll have more opportunities to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91418	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Žagar, the answer of my colleague Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91419	Thank you very much. It's not easy for you to be a minister, it's not easy to make harder decisions, and it's mostly tough decisions for ministers. We've made unpopular and difficult decisions and done good things to me. At first, I told the minister, Minister, we connected the hospitals of Gradiška, Slavonski Brod, we connected Pakrac and Požega, we connected Varazdin and Marof. It wasn't easy, but tell me, why did you let HDZ's powers and mayors get everything back? The minister was just smiling. I'm glad to see the minister smiling, but, I mean, I understand you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91420	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Jerkovic. Next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91421	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So, after many of the doctors who discussed it, I'm educated in the technical profession, so I'll try to make my contribution, don't blame me if I'm wrong. As we said, Parliament is a political body, not an expert body, so we have the right to express some political views. But here's the minister, before I start saying what I resent, to say something that's good. Today, I was extremely pleased when you said that doctors in primary health care at health care will significantly increase their wages. You are mentioned to be the figures of 13-19 thousand kuna compared to the current 7200 kuna that the initial physician has. That's very good news for me and of course for our doctors. You said at the beginning in the opening part of your debate one very important thing, some colleagues and colleagues repeated it. So this is the Law concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so here I was motivated to report a debate because I was a patient, I'm going to be a patient, and I'm going to share the fate of all people who live around me or near me and whose primary health care is available in one way or another. Why did I mention I was technical? Because you know what a good master and that master who's worse is different? Because it's a good diagnosis of the malfunction. So the one who first determines where the malfunction is in the system, he quickly solves the problem. It's a similar thing, if you let me, of course, not wanting to trivialize things. In medicine, a doctor who makes a good diagnosis gives a patient a great chance to solve the problem quickly. I think there's a major role in primary health care. And in order for a doctor to make a diagnosis, he needs devices, devices to be obtained. And now we're going back to this part of the doctor who's in concessions. It would be good for those who invest more, to get these devices, and that's where I see their concerns. What if they do it? They get a UZV machine, they get a variety of others, they get a good diagnosis machine, and later on, let me just say, some smart guy remembered, and now I'm going to politically assign it to someone else. That's where I see fear and their protests. Especially young doctors who do not see the perspective of why they should go in after so much education go into specialization, then family medicine and deal with these investments that they later have a uncertain destiny. You mentioned here that there would be competitions, transparent competitions, I ask you to repeat it once more, so that we may be more clear. It's not good for doctors, and you've seen a protest. I've seen these young doctors in the protests. It's not good to say it's a storm in a glass of water. However, I think it is past the time of haughtiness, that we all need to put all our strength together to prevent young people from leaving us, young educated people that society has invested and who are ultimately pillars or bearers of tomorrow's state. You said it was your goal, but please prove it. Of course, I understand that you're in between now, let's say conditional between two fires. On the one hand, there are founders, the county, and on the other hand there are doctors who are in concessions and I don't think this is up to 25% that's that much of a problem. In my county, that percentage will never be achieved because there will be no interest. If 50% is privatized, if 50% is in concessions, that'll be good. I think the bigger problem is that this part of you sit down with the doctors, talk, see if you really, at least that's how I see it, that they're entrepreneurs if they invest, if they want to make a good example of a polyclinic or whatever. I'm saying this with the reserve because I'm saying, I don't have enough in this area of knowledge, but logically, if they want to invest, they don't later depend on the political will of local powers. That's the essence of this whole story somewhere. As for the home of health, there is of course, I think even the representatives of the home health care of you are to be at least 25%, not to be up to 25%. I think this is still a better solution up to 25%, so let the congregations decide how much it's going to be. But in any case, it's good, I welcome this for salary increases, and I welcome your part that you have introduced in the law the possibility of establishing a regional infirmary. It's just in the case of my municipality where we have the infirmary, we don't have a doctor, where it's possible that the doctor is working, if I'm well aware of my dislocated job. What this brief debate can conclude at the end, we all know that. Look, there is no doctor, doctor, I don't know what the quota of MUP for granting work visas to doctors, as much as it is in the Republic of Croatia. I have eight doctors in primary health care in my county, and they're still missing. If they're still five, if five of them leave, then eventually there won't be a full quota for the Republic of Croatia won't be enough to fill the job. I don't know if you know there's a doctor in my county, I think there was a show, I'm not gonna talk right now, a woman is, how old she is, but she should have been retired a long time ago. She can't retire because there's no one to take these patients. These are serious things and you as minister are responsible for, I won't say for the health of this nation, but to do everything to make our health status of all our citizens better because at this point in time, according to all the indicators, it's not good and we can't put things under the rug because when we talk, see, here was LNG Law. We had a case of poisoning in Slavonski Brod, I simply feel that information is being hidden from the public and worrying about how low the level of communication between the minister and the professional public is, and therefore, it is my main objection to you. How is it possible that such a low level of communication is so low that doctors are so opposed to this Law, and they are the most invited to agree with you and that ultimately we have a quality law for the benefit of the citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91422	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91423	Thank you. I wanted to say something to my colleague, but he encouraged me, and I'm going to turn my replica to the other side because he mentioned a wonderful doctor named Željka Perić who works there somewhere in your area in Zdenci and I welcome her, which is actually everything we're talking about today, and who very often cheers us all up with his funny posts because she really needed to retire a few years ago, so she retired, realized that there was no one to take care of the patients and reactivated and opened her office, so she often welcomes us from the first line of the health front line. I'd like to say that what you've been saying and the way you say it, that's the voice of the people. You are neither a doctor nor are you too obvious in this entire story to enter as someone who deals as a health care politician, but you see in fact what the situation is and I am glad that you see everything that we as doctors and healthcare professionals want to say, and that's not what the doctor has and we do everything to keep them, in any way, let's not penalize them, let the doctors have a family choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91424	Thank you, colleagues. Answer, Comrade Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91425	Very short, thank you, colleague Linic. So, you mentioned the name, it's about Dr. Zeljko Peric, for a time Dr. Chanad was the youngest doctor in the east of my county at 50 and a few years old. Things are, we have to think about, that young people are coming, that we keep these doctors, that society has invested a lot in them, and I think it's a major task. When we are that system and that's what I was going to say, in fact through the replica of colleague Romani Jerkovic, this must not be created as a conflict between two types of doctors. This is by no means a conflict between two types of doctors, he is in the home of health and those in the concession, but this law must find a solution to make the system work, to benefit and ultimately to acceptable doctors, and to the benefit of patients above all, because primary health care is the most important, because then there would be fewer waiting lists and ultimately people would be healthier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91426	I thank my colleague, Sagar, for your reply. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91427	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, if you may remember, we had a break, we were just talking about the condition, about health care on debts HZO has towards hospitals and health homes. I'm asking a real question, okay, if all of this goes to concessions, these doctors get what they want, doctors, eventually, will they be able to charge? Because if you owe them 10 million now, I don't know one home of health, with me in the county, whether doctors will accept that HZO owes them money for what they do, or they want to be paid every month, as they have their own expenses. So that it doesn't happen to us, that here, with this announcement, the pay will rise, which I welcome everyone to be better paid by a doctor, that I don't know, it's pretty much in that sense, to put Armani on a suit, and we ride in a drawer. But on the other hand, it leads to some point where we're starting. But here's the question, are we going to achieve with these changes that we have better health conditions, that we have better medical care, that doctors feel good in the state where they work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91428	Thank you for your response, Comrade Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91429	Dear fellow Panenic, the worst thinking is if we start to think so that doctors are con artists who try to be one way or the other... As much money as possible, here are colleagues of Varga and doctors of primary health protection of praise and during his term of office, when the criteria have been little and they are still satisfied, because many times they work through that standard that HZZO pays them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't complain about it, as far as I understand from their statement. They are, of course, against the introduction of order into the system, but they must know what their rights are after 10, 15, 20 or 25 years of developing one practice, investing in equipment that after that and simply someone comes and drives them out of that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91430	I thank my colleague, Žagar, and we are moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91431	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There are some topics that should be raised both in the assembly and in society by less passions and political outsmarts and bickering, health must be one of those topics. Here, many consider me not very communicative, but I am a minister when we were working on a strategy of science and technology, invited all former ministers, to see how this strategy could get one general consensus. And she passed in the Parliament without a single vote against. I wonder why Minister Kujundzic did not bring together all former ministers before the law was drafted and together with them tried to come up with some guidelines on how to draft a Health Protection Act that would be extra-supervised and that would not include 5,000 remarks that would come from the field. This law, if we read it right, we can say it doesn't bring anything new. He practically doesn't have to be. And there is a key problem with this law, because it is again intervened in health care without any concept or connection to any strategic documents. It's like there's no such thing. National Health Development Strategy 2012/20. The law is partial, it seriously violates the foundation of public health, at the same time even opens doors and corrupt risks of discrimination, violation of fundamental human rights, including the right to health as also spoke by the Ombudsman for human rights of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal was lost in intense debates over primary health care, and almost never touched the hospital system, which sounds paradoxical because the main generator of debts and problems in Croatian health is the hospital system. The problem is that this law does not strengthen the home of health, and the home of health would still have to be crucial in preserving the health of Croatian citizens. He would have to get a new role, and I call on the minister to come to the second reading to the Primorje Goran County, sit with the director of the home of health, with concessionaries and see how one home of health works, which must reconcile the interests of both the island and the Gorski Kotar and the city of Rijeka, therefore, completely different areas, so as to ensure better health care and through the basic function and through consular protection, therefore, cooperation with the clinical hospital center. It's one example that should be incorporated into the second draft of this law. So today it's been heard several times, I can do it again, because it's really impressive, Croatia is after the treatment of malignant diseases at the European bottom. We've got drugs today. They're more available than before. We have quality experts, we have hospitals, but we are still at the bottom of the treatment of malignant diseases. Croatia is the last in Europe, it is the profession of Mr. Minister, after treating colon cancer. There is a huge amount of money invested in the prevention, and the response is catastrophic. So our problem is the availability of services. We cannot look at everything from the position of Zagreb, Split or Rijeka, the man from Suska or Mrkolje, today the oral surgeon is practically unavailable. Croatia is no longer the same available country for treatment throughout its territory. This will certainly have inconceivable consequences and our average lives will not come close to the EU average, but will remain far from it. This health care bill and it's not just... for Minister Kujundzic but also for other ministers, it is always brought in isolation from other laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we had to have at the same time in the Parliament and discuss the package of all the laws, and the Law on Health Protection and the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance and the Law on Health Activities and a whole series of regulations to be passed, it had to be present in a public debate to actually see where the health care system is going in the Republic of Croatia. There are numerous data, here are the 2016 EUROSTAT data showing that 19% of people over 16 in Croatia consider their health as bad or very bad, and therefore we are at the bottom of the EU. Waiting lists, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Ministers do not shrink. They're still increasing, and somewhere they've come to the absurd. I don't want to talk about any absurd lists at all because I'm ashamed as a politician and as a doctor that there are such waiting lists in the Republic of Croatia. The health debt is still growing. You, Mr. Minister, have one incredible fortune that unlike your predecessors, you have money. So GDP is growing, the treasure is there and according to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, health care has more money than before, so you have more money at your disposal. But having more money didn't lead to waiting lists being e.g. shorter, for doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals to stay in Croatia. So at the same time, we increased the walking but in no way rationalized the expenditures. So I'll say what all doctors say, no savings. We're not gonna save in health care, we're not gonna save on the patient, but we're gonna rationalize the costs. We haven't done it yet. The revenues have increased, but we don't have any cost rationalisation. Therefore, the basic principle of our health policy must be that optimal health care must be equal, easily and quickly available to all citizens according to the principles of social solidarity, solidarity of the elderly towards the younger, richer towards the poor, and that this must be the basis for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, that health care must be timely and accessible to everyone equally, without dividing into rich and poor regardless of whether they live in the metropolis, on an island or somewhere in the Gorski Kotar. Health is a key factor in the quality of life of every individual and economic development in Croatia, but the availability of healthcare is certainly one of the reasons why some citizens leave some areas where healthcare is less accessible. Let's just say I won't make fun of what some of you have done to your mobile teams today because I think that if there's any way, any way to increase the availability of healthcare, it's good, so that your proposal, given the growing number of doctors, can certainly help to make health in certain environments more accessible. So, I will always praise everything that is good, here I thank you and thank you publicly for today's Government of the Republic of Croatia's guarantees for continuing the construction of KBC in Rijeka as one of the key centres for better healthcare throughout Croatia. Therefore, health policy must be directed towards patients and their families, neither doctors can concessionians nor hospital doctors nor doctors in the private sector be the most important. Key patients are key prevention, early detection of disease, better, more efficient treatment, longer survival than severe chronic diseases and longer life and life in the Republic of Croatia which we do not have right now. I could talk a lot more about this, but here, I don't have time anymore. I hope that by the second reading you will sit with former ministers, sit with the most successful directors of hospitals, health homes and come to a better and better quality solution. I let the end of it go for something that you've replicated to me today, and you're wrong, almost with some cynicism, you're saying that some of the culprits for the position of medical-laboratory diagnostics didn't solve their problem, it's just not true. But let's say it's true. That's irrelevant. Let's go help these people not to have to leave Croatia, not to close laboratories all over Croatia, that no one is accusing you and it's unwarranted, I'm saying that they're unfairly accusing you that because of some of your petty interests you're comfortable with the masters of medical biochemical diagnostics, I know that's not true, and the accusations are not correct, and that's not the reason why the master's medical-laboratory diagnostics problem has not been solved yet. So, the Science and Higher Education Agency approved their programme, it had nothing to do with the ministry or who was the minister at the time. The agency followed guidelines coming from the EU where medical-laboratory diagnostics do not complete their education at the level of the first-grader but at the level of the degree or the master of medical-laboratory diagnostics. This is a broader concept than the masters of medical-laboratory diagnostics and let's go solve this problem, solve it through this law and through the laws that arise from it, allow people who have completed colleges without underestimating them to work in Croatia. If they recognize them in Dublin, Ireland, why couldn't they work in laboratories all over Croatia that are closing because there's just no one in them to work for? I hope that by the second reading we will get a better bill because this will not ensure that in Croatia health care is solid, comprehensive, all equally accessible, that we do not have to increase participation, the price of supplementary insurance in order for all of Croatia to live 2 years longer and to get closer to the European average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91432	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. We have one replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91433	My colleague Jovanovic, I agree that in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution is being violated and that we do not have the same medical services. primary health services, I can say that for the Dalmatian Zagora but I said that in an individual debate. However, the Constitution is being violated on another issue, so in Zagreb, in the Republic of Croatia, 890 times more radiation of base stations is electromagnetic than in Paris or Vienna. So we do not protect our citizens as protected in the EU. Be careful, 890 times more radiation is allowed electromagnetically in Croatian cities and places than in Paris and Vienna. They have the Internet, they have everything and a rule on electromagnetic radiation that's in the Ministry of Health, they don't want to change it. For years I warned with the Croatian association of electromagnetic radiation. However, no government, it does not want to change that. Why? Because it's not public interest, it's private teleopers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91434	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91435	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you often have steps in which you speak in such a way about certain topics. I always have a spare on it. So, I am not an advocate of conspiracy theory, I am not an advocate that the government of the Republic of Croatia would benefit from private interests at the expense of all Croatian citizens regardless of what government it was, and I hope that you will get a concrete answer that will say that all of this you are talking about is not true, because in Croatia they must be Croatian citizens in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91436	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91437	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister Kujundzic, I will tell you dearly because you are a doctor. I'll talk about this law in a different way, I won't talk about the law, I'll talk about people who work in the medical system, in the health system. I have to say that this is still after all, after almost everything has been ruined in society by the economy, the standard, everything has fallen, but human medicine has remained perhaps the greatest value in our society for me. So people who work in the medical system are really the best people we have. It's a fact I'm talking about based on my own experience. So I'm going to talk a little bit about my experiences, talk about what maybe I should do to keep it at that level that I still hope and believe we have. When I think of some of my doctors who were my doctors when I was in school, I remember only for the good. I remember the doctor of primary medicine, here I will remember one last name, Dr. Kuzmanovic from Kutina, who as a doctor of general medicine, the doctor of general medicine knew skin diseases very well, and he was not specially trained for it. I remember he cured me of some things that later when I went to a specialist for exactly that kind of disease they didn't know those things he knew back then. I remember the orthodontic Maya Kunscht from elementary school. I remember she fixed my teeth and I remember she did it very well. I had to take out even four teeth because they're very thick to fix those irregularities in my mouth later. '94. I got sick pretty bad for years, and I didn't know what was wrong with me. I started losing weight. It took a month of research. During the course of the disease study, I fell to 46 kilograms and pressure 110/100. You know what that means. That was on the verge of existence. And fortunately, I ended up in KB Mercury. I've been taken over by Dr. Sprayo in KB Mercury. Dr. Spray is from Sarajevo by the way. I've had an inflammation for a month, and the colonoscopy revealed what it was about. Before it was discovered I thought I was dead, I thought I was done, now it's over. I fell in weight, everything I eat comes out of me, bleeding, disaster, cancer, I'm done. The colonoscopy revealed that it was a morbus chron. A disease that's been around a lot lately, I think. But thanks to a very high-quality team in Mercury, I've been rehabilitated and today I can say that I haven't had any problems for four years, despite being advised that when we have such a disease, we have to stick to a child, we have to watch what we eat, what we drink. Here, I can say I don't have to look after anything. I can eat everything and drink. There's no problem. There's a lot of things in my head. Here, on Monday I'll go back to control, and we'll see what it looks like on the inside. But I didn't have my doctor left, I was later worked by Dr. Cholic-Brown. I have to mention all these people because they're extremely high-quality doctors, doctors, so that Dr. Cholic-Cvrlje kept taking care of me after Dr. Sprayo very well. After she retired, her humanity reached the point where she left me her cell phone number and said whenever you needed anything, if you want to know something, ask, I'll tell you everything you need to know. Here, it's a doctor on the Hippocratic oath that remains a doctor for the rest of his life and never ceases to be a doctor. And now we come to the topic of how to preserve that quality that we have and that we still have. I'm still very happy with medicine, I'm very happy with the system that treats me. I speak from my experience. I listen to people who are unhappy, but it seems like a lot of people are unhappy about it because they're in themselves a little bit and spoiled, there's a lot of it. How do you keep these people here, young people getting the knowledge they need from those experienced doctors we have? How to prevent them from leaving our beautiful country because the fact is that somewhere in Austria, Germany, America, what I know where 10 times the salary will get for the same job that works here. Of course, he will leave this beautiful country, but in return he will secure his life and life for his children when they go there. How do you keep it? That's the question. I think the main reason why we have a problem with the health system is actually public procurement. I believe we spend far more money than we should spend on public procurement. And I'm going to give an example of where one hospital managed to cut that public procurement, so I think it's even 80%. It's a hospital in Lovran. I'm sure you know about the case of Director Sixans who did it, and no, here's Dr. Shestan. I don't know that you're actually the one, and you're okay. Dr. Shestan brought that hospital to a level of cost-effective hospitals, in ways that were shown through the media so that he was even in life danger. So he wasn't afraid to stand up to those who somehow blackmailed and managed to bring things into order. So it would be necessary to just follow the example of that hospital, through the complete system and solve that public procurement in the right way and then through the rest of the money will open up resources for higher salaries to doctors, nurses and all others who work in the system. Because that money goes amongst other things and in a way that maybe the drugs are too prescribed where they shouldn't. It's a low-resistance line, so people might be prescribed drugs just to get rid of them, and they don't really need these drugs. And how do you stop it? Prevent prevention. So what's prevention? It's not just the prevention of a healthy life in itself, in terms of what we eat together, we drink healthy, we deal with sports, it's prevention in something else, although it doesn't apply directly to your portfolio. But there is one part that appears on the market that is extremely damaging to our society. What's this about? It's about gambling, it's about bookies, and it's about how we can't stop either alcohol or drugs. So, these four things I mentioned, I think we should find a way to preventably reduce to the highest possible minimum. Let's remember, during the war, gambling machines were free by the bar, and that's where people hooked up to this one monster that's now at every turn, it can also meet, in a way that these casinos have commercials out there as if it's children's kindergartens. It's like a circus or something. These images that are out there that are attracted to getting inside, they're as real as if it were some kind of game, some kind of fun, but it's actually something that leads to a serious illness. I don't know how many registered gamblers there are, I think there's over 50,000, and that means 50,000 unhappy families. So, I think even from this portfolio of yours, you need to launch some kind of initiative to stop it and stop it. The bookies and casinos must not be accessible, as they are now available. I have to mention another discipline that perhaps should be alternatively introduced into medicine, and that discipline is called osteopathy. I don't know how much you know about osteopathy, but osteopathy is one phenomenal thing that can also act preventively, but even later when a man gets into trouble, he can treat. I've personally been under the treatment of osteopathy, every year I've been killed, but ever since I started seeing an osteoporosis, which is qualified and professional, I don't stop. Therefore, alternative disciplines should also be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91438	I thank my esteemed colleague, Goran Aleksic, for these kind words for medical staff. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague of Ines Strenja Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91439	Thank you. At the end of today's long day, we started with a committee where we sat down and talked to all those who actually made this law and participated in making this law, to see again, actually, if we could bring our views closer. I'd like to do some more things again. Prior to that, I would like to thank Mr. Secretary of State once again, today the government has finally circled a story that is already taking place by several governments, each of which has done its share, and finally the state guarantees are now for the total amount of construction of a clinical hospital centre. This is an indicator of how consensus and agreement, common in several governments, different parliamentary representatives and the Rijekans who are in some policy of health care and other policy, can in some way focus their efforts, according to one project that was crucial and necessary for our entire region, which is building a clinical hospital center. And I thank you today for the government's finally and adopted. The Rijeka region, though attached, is no longer a colleague of Jovanovic, is known to be one of the hospitals there, which is an orthopedic hospital that has been positive already, has a positive view of state audit and has been operating positively for a number of years. It is also a home of health which is actually a form of behavior that thinking ahead can be a home of health in some way, slowly transforming it into a real constitutional, county home of health institution, where secondary health care will be well organized with specialist offices that actually reduce waiting lists and pressure on the clinical hospital center. And that's how it's supposed to work. Of course, once again, it is absolutely unacceptable to have unequipped infirmarys around Brac, Imotski, Vrgorec, Sinj and to return 3.4 million kunas to the county budget for other activities. So the county health home from Split returned that money to the county budget. That money could have been directed somewhere else. And I will repeat once again that it is primarily one money that should be available to all doctors, especially primary health care, but it is always intended only for the home of health but not for those who are concessionaries who would use it to improve the quality of health care. So, why are they, the law is how we are now proposed the law is in the present form discriminatory against independent holders of the activities of family medicine and amending the current bill is necessary to correct it. Therefore, independent operators of the activities of private doctors, specialists of family medicine do not have the opportunity to hire a doctor and refer him to a specialization. Therefore, they also do not have the opportunity to obtain funds from EU funds intended for specialisation means to finance the costs of specialisation because they are only approved by health homes. At the same time, health homes do not show a satisfactory interest in specialisations and EU funds are used only partially. I know of several health directors who were simply not interested in writing projects in order to withdraw that money because they already know that these specializations will not be reported. Thus, this means money is intended only for health care homes, it is carried out by staff devasting private health care, and the current holders of most of the primary health care activities face a growing range of work on a daily basis. Here you would also refer to the effective management of human health potentials, where you said that this legislative proposal will specifically introduce the possibility of rewarding workers for the above average results in order to promote the best results and quality of work. In fact, the legislator did not define the meaning of the term nat average result and the measurement of average results. You also do not determine what is planned to do in the efficient management of workers who perform below average results, because that is our problem. We know we're not evenly deployed. The only way to measure the results is to have time-cadrovic standards for all health care professions. Until we have it, we simply won't be able to reward by who's effective. Also, since the health care process also depends on the performance of unhealthy activities in healthcare institutions, it is necessary to measure the results and non-healthy activities of human health potential management in health care in order to be effective. And she'd still look back at a few articles that are also important. In Article 11, you said: “The unit of regional and regional self-government achieves its rights, obligations, tasks and objectives in the field of health care by ensuring that the public health services network is filled in cooperation with local self-government units in its field.” Therefore, cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the HZZO and private health professionals and companies is also a key problem for a large number of regions in the country affected by the demographic crisis and local self-government units are not in themselves up to that challenge and nothing encourages them to cooperate with other interested people. Therefore, in this article it should also be added that units of local self-government will ensure that the network is filled with the network but in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, HZZ and private healthcare professionals. You also said that the unit of the district or county means regional self-government units of local self-government can provide funds for the health care of residents above standards. I believe it is necessary to change this to the term "must" so as to commit the units of the regional self-government and local self-government units to providing funds for so-called so-called ". above standard, because according to the Health Insurance Act, there is still no precise definition of what you say about the service catalogue. Self-government requirements often go beyond the usual and expected standards, but without the necessary supporting funding. The example for this is a special duty when the contract with an institution that negotiates the same price per review for all of Croatia requires that special duty takes place in cities as well as in depressed areas, which is impossible at such a fixed price. And once again, I would rely on those who actually approve of working in a new space. Thus, Article 51 states: “The application for the approval of the exercise of private practice in the office in the new space is submitted by a health care professional to the ministry. With the request of a healthcare professional, it must have a contract on the implementation of health care with evidence to attach the mayor’s consent.” So, I would say that since the intention of the bill was to change the system of concessions to the system of offices in order to ensure better availability of primary health care, it is necessary to avoid unnecessary restrictions and very likely conflicts of interest of the units of regional self-government as the founder of health homes in which most offices are presently located. The Ministry brings a network of public health services and it is only responsible for it, so other controls are not necessary. As far as healthcare professionals are concerned, it is in their interest to make the office as accessible as possible to users and to have no motive for illogical transitions to new spaces. So, we propose to add provisions on the creation of a special regulation by the ministry with criteria according to which the mayor or mayor of the City of Zagreb is obliged to act in issuing consent in order to avoid unnecessary local resistances. After that, once again I must say, you have downloaded the Bill proposal, which was Articles 63 and 64, and by erasing these articles, you have missed the opportunity to increase the availability of healthcare to citizens in areas where citizens do not already have or will lose access to primary healthcare during the next period. Therefore, by erasing these provisions, we have lost the possibility of transferring the right to carry out health activities to another healthcare professional and the legislative proposal no longer provides for a model for ensuring continuity of the provision of healthcare in the office. We're sorry you've lifted these articles. We hope that until the final draft of the law you will consider this because by abolishing these provisions you directly influence the status of an employee doctor in the office, because he loses all rights and the possibility of continuing his work in the office by leaving the team. In addition, a long-term investment by the team's holder in the office and its medical equipment shall be analyzed. Now, one article you may have missed, which is article 69. Therefore, private practice in the office cannot be carried out for the following activities. First, taking and transplanting human organs for treatment. That's good. And collection and collection, testing, processing, preservation, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells for treatment purposes. So, won't this proposal... limit certain medical activities in private practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91440	I thank my esteemed colleague Ines Strenja Linic. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91441	Thank you very much. My colleagues, it is nice to hear that you have agreed in Rijeka and that you have isolated what you need, and I have believed that here will be the minister from Imotski and the secretary next to him from Vrlika, that he will at least be partially sensitised with his end, which is literally the House of Health of Split-Dalmatia, an example of the gravestone of the health homes and primary protection is an example of Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county in the Republic of Croatia. We literally have this primary protection and health care home is familiar and the minister knows these problems, I am witnessing that in the Cetitian province and Imotski, he knows it. However, they do not want to solve the problem. Because the Fallen and Petrec are now his successor, the undertakers of the Split-Dalmatia County Health House, which is why women waiting for the ranks and all who want services die waiting in line. And that's why a number of specialists have gone, both recently and last radiologist from the Sinj House of Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91442	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, dear colleague Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91443	Thank you. Well, that's actually what I think we agree on all the time. I think that policy has done its story and I think that despite the health needs of the Split-Dalmatia County, it is obvious that something drastic must change in the management of the county health homes. Politics couldn't do it. It is bad that health is managed by politicians, not by those who should actually be carriers and those who should primarily treat and care for health care and health care. Bad because I think that money that, I just recently saw that document, the money that was returned to the county budget, that money could have been used to equip the infirmary, the office, the lab. Because when I saw in Vrgorec that they were still working on a prehistoric apparatus that says Sutjeska, 30, 40 years old, to do blood work, I can think of what the results are coming out of that machine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91444	Thank you, dear colleagues of Strenja-Linić. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91445	Thank you, Vice President. I've already welcomed the minister and all my associates. Yesterday and yesterday we had a discussion here about the space program of Croatia and there were only two speakers. So obviously, a topic that's not as important as this topic of health where we've seen here in a few hours, five hours is already being discussed here. And it's logical because health is all about all of us, as far as all of us are concerned, because we were all patients or some of our loved ones were patients, and it's logical that it's the topic that's being discussed in society intensively and here in Parliament. We are here with either patients or some of our family, we are patients and representatives of the people and it is logical that we try everything we hear on the ground, everything we hear from people to pass on here and try with you the most responsible people in health care, experts from that area to try to find the best solution. It's logical we all wish we had a hospital in every place, a couple of hospitals, it's all for free, that's for the best. But it is clear that everyone who is a responsible politician, anyone who is a serious representative of his people and anyone who seriously discusses social, state issues must debate if in his family. All of us kids might be given, bought, and apartments, and cars, and I don't know all the latest and best we can and compared to someone in the world, but we often can't. So I think even in the debates in this House, that kind of guy everybody here who shows up and tells stories, I call it stories for little kids, that they should. It reminds me of what happened after World War II when the authorities at the time spoke – you know you just raise your hand and every train will stop you, no matter where you find yourself. It doesn't matter if it's a train station or if you're somewhere outside your house. Unfortunately, we can hear such discussions here in the Croatian Parliament today, and I hold it once irresponsible. Stories, irresponsible stories. We need to discuss serious relations about what we have and the means we have. I think it's a serious conversation and a conversation that should be in this House and where it should be discussed in that way. Personally, I was the mayor of two mandates in the Split-Dalmatia County, and among other things, I was involved in healthcare, not with my desire or will, I was an engineer of electrical engineering, and I never got into it, but we were looking for the best people who understood it so that I could run this system. The biggest problem is certainly small places, evicted places what my predecessors have spoken of here and what we are afraid of because we are losing standard, today at a time when we are struggling with demographics, we want the residents to stay in Croatia, especially in these small environments, then and through this law we need to see opportunities that are there to maintain quality health care. With what we are fighting to have quality schools and to stay in the area because unfortunately in Croatia, what we are all witnessing is that the population has settled large cities. So here I welcome this initiative of this ministry and this government to organize a hospital in one part of the Dalmatian Burn in one Zagvozda, and it must be one big shift and something that some others could, but here they had no understanding of our little poor neighborhoods, the poor Dalmatian Zagora. You're the one who started it, and that's why I congratulate you. But here, you should also take care of the islands, for example. We can't find a doctor who would go to work in Suchuraj that island of Hvar, it's the island of Hvar. Then imagine what the problem is to bring a doctor to Lečevica, where there are 500 residents, and someone has to be a doctor there too because not all people can go to Split. And here I saw that through this law you tried to strive, but our counties are fiscally very bad. What these guys are puking around in the county and county districts is people who have failed to win the election or have failed to become in those places, and then they're puking around the county and the county. We have to... County... these are institutions that have to help these very small environments. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But health homes have to be responsible and I think they're an instrument that has to exist and find ways to help those small environments. So we have a doctor in our Slivno and in Lečevica, both Vis and Sucurje. County doesn't have the capacity. It would be good for the small ministry to take over some of the funds there, and as you have worked on yourself so far, because everyone wants private in Split and in Zagreb in private health care and they are nice money, decent. And there are 2,000 patients there, but in Lečevica there can't be more than 250, 300 patients, and the entire vast area. Here we must find a quality way for the ministry to help the county, as well as the municipality that has no financial opportunities for doctors to stay in the area. That's why this formulation, I know you're under a lot of pressure, I've seen media pressure, which was that everything goes into privatization, that there's not even this 25% left, and this up to 25% in the home of health, I think it should change to 25%, not 25%. Because here's the experience teaching us that yesterday, here I was when I was mayor no private wants a private in primary health care he didn't want to be on duty. And what about the director of his home health? What can the mayor do for him? What can anyone do to him? He's a private. Second, who controls these doctors in private protection? They have a contract with HZZO, they can work in private. Who's watching them? What's their responsibility? How much, here is the survey, the satisfaction of people who have been to a private doctor and who have been to a doctor in a home of health. You think it's big, we're all potential users. I didn't get information from people that it was better there than here. Maybe at first, when patients get together, they tend to do it, but when they collect a number of patients, it's like a home of health. He has a secure salary then and there's no need to fight for some new patients. If you try to move from private to home to someone else private, he says I can't work for colleagues because it's not right for me to see you now. So it's not all black and white. Contest. We say we let the doctors take another one, hire another doctor, and he'll be good, and he'll inherit. Who's gonna pick that one? So, I'm a doctor, I have my own private office, I'm gonna hire or someone from my family, and that's how it's gonna go on. So someone's gonna be a priority caste then. So we have to open up that competition to be public and that everyone has a chance to come, that the best do come, that we strive for the best to come to those places. So that's something to think about and define it very well until this second reading. I've already spoken through the replica, the question of crossing. The home of health sends people to specialization and then they're more attractive to work at the KBC than in a health care facility. They're running, they're leaving. Now it's going to be about 250 grand or I don't know how much, but that money doesn't matter. It is also important to keep this regulation to try people for at least a certain time that they must be in that place, not in the KBC, or if the home of health gave them a specialization to keep him there. The home of health has no ability to stop it. There's no county, that's clear to you. So it's some topic that we should discuss and it's quality to solve until another reading, or maybe it's a quality solution here too, I didn't quite understand it. And this issue of home health, here today was a lot of hitting on that health home of the Split-Dalmatia County, I believe that all of this is largely unwarranted. But we in the County of Split-Dalmatia had a problem in Makarska, you know that's what I said. I haven't read it, I've seen Article 70(4), and I think it is, which says that health homes can only form units of regional self-government. We would like cities that will but on their own responsibility to establish, that Makarska can establish its home of health, that Sinj can establish his home of health if he wants, but that the city is the founder rather than the county. Because we now have a situation other than the island for the county to be the founder, then the county pays the directors, the board of directors, and so on. But it is necessary to allow cities of great cities, rich cities that want to establish their home of health, to manage them. Because if someone has financial resources and can put on the health standard why not let them? Here's how many of my few obsessions about this, so I believe either the minister will explain it or until the second reading to think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91446	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Sanader. Replications. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91447	Well, as I volunteered for the replica, because my colleague Sanader always needs to defend the Split-Dalmatia County here. I think everyone in this county is, but in all of Croatia, it is clear that this county is for itself. So the total number of employees in Split-Dalmatia County is around 259. If we look at the number of county employees, local self-government units and Split-Dalmatia County, it stands without the institutions that are founded by the county, without companies that are founded by the county 35 employees of 10,000 inhabitants. So, if we exempt all institutions, businesses and everything owned by the county if we added that number, it would be much, much larger. And what are we talking about here? Such a county is thus set up for itself, and your defence of the health home of the Split-Dalmatia County has brought many colleagues here you can't realize just who ran for office. So Ivan Lovrinović did not run for mayor of the Split-Dalmatia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91448	Thank you. Thank you, comrade Grmoy. My colleague Sanader's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91449	Ivan Lovrinovic did not run, but his member was running for director, so she did not go through and she did not get a single vote. And you ran for mayor of Split-Dalmatia County and you didn't go through the same thing. So I understand your self, I realize you can't get there in a position to run the county, and now you're frustrated and you're trying to... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Split-Dalmatia County is like Montenegro. Split-Dalmatia County has 500 thousand inhabitants, Split-Dalmatia County has 55 units of local self-government. Split-Dalmatia County is the largest county in Croatia. And it's clear to me, the frustrations that you have, and now the arguments that don't stand to try to tear down spit on that county. The county is one of the best counties in Croatia. What bothers you is I can't help you here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91450	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My dear comrade Grmoya, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91451	Dear Vice President, I did not spit on the Split-Dalmatia County but on the County Administration that arrested so many people. And I, Mr. Sanader, did not run for mayor of Split-Dalmatia County. I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91452	Comrade Grmoy, please don't abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because the breach of the Rules of Procedure did not exist. I'd like to ask you to stay away from something like that in the future. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91453	Comrade Grmoy, please don't abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure because the breach of the Rules of Procedure did not exist. I'd like to ask you to stay away from something like that in the future. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91454	I thank my esteemed colleagues, Ines Strenja-Linić. Come in, Mr. Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91455	Thank you. I was talking to the distinguished colleagues about the fact that if the health care center assigns a specialization and we get a specialist, radiologist, pediatrician or gynecologist, then after the completion of the specialization, he goes to the KBC. And that's the problem, because then home of health, here we heard that health homes don't invest in specializations, so then they ran out of specialists. But when you pay for your specialization and you get a resident, he has better conditions at the clinic than at the health care center and goes there. So I didn't say who paid him, clearly that HZZO, the state of Croatia, then we'll talk taxpayers paid him. And it's clear and that's the problem, and then the home of health runs out without that resident. And how is he going to make up for it? Wait four years again?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91456	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you not to engage your colleague Sanader as he responds to the replica. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the Bridge Representatives Club. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91457	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the whole day we've been discussing what I personally went into politics for, and that's health care. I'm sorry that my colleague Sanader, the esteemed minister, came out because he's a former mayor, here he comes back, so he hears how big the merits of the county that we have in the last, see that we have in the last since the county came 100 thousand people have left the Dalmatian Zagora. In the last four years, 26 thousand people have left the Dalmatian Zagora, 26 thousand! In your Imotski, at least twenty percent of it is respected ministers. It's the county's merits to the Dalmatian Zagora. As far as health services are concerned, that Sanader fellow knows well that the county has no nap. hospice. The river has hospice, you know that? You wanted to shut down the station in Sinj where 50,000 people we have more than Licko-Senj County. We're not going to talk about Vrgoračka's end and the diagnostic device that says Sutjeska. And you're calling the election here? If you were the election, you can see at the start of 50 grand to zero in the beginning. Because you've got 50 grand of employees. So County, Split-Dalmatia, Fadalo, and Petric continued are graves of primary health care in Split-Dalmatia County. It's the Ministers, and in Makarska, you're familiar with it, you've solved this problem in the way of the lab. You are familiar with Vrgorec, you are now familiar with Imotski, Sinja, and we will not talk about the second part of the Dalmatian Zagora which is Sibenik-Knin County and it is the biggest accident and Dalmatian Zagora. About islands? We're not gonna talk about that either. You know what's going on? That a radiologist from Sinj who every six months has the ability to enroll people who wait, I always talk about women who die in line waiting for the ultrasound of the breast, that radiologists send you to Vis, to Hvar, means so much exploit these doctors that they simply can't take that job or do that job. And that's a fact. And instead of a colleague named Sanader as a colleague of Strenja-Linic, we fought in Rijeka for the Rijeka hospital and SDPs and HDZ and Most-Sovci. Well, fellow Sanader, he's going to the election. I know it was hard for her and if they were in a panic for the county elections, it wasn't so much for me, because if I was the mayor, I'd shut down the county, that would be the first request I'd ask the minister to shut down the County of Split-Dalmatia. She's the problem that's 100 thousand people since she was founded less in the Dalmatian Zagora. She's the key to the problem and that's the problem from health care to school. Let me just give you an example, I'm talking health care now. Last year, at this time, I suggested that free textbooks have all students. It's a populism solution in Sinj. In Sinj, I handle the tuto-complete and textbooks and work notes 2 million kunas. Now they say, we'll do the textbooks, and you'll do the workbooks. Now it's not populism anymore. Well, of course it's not populism. Of course, if children have free textbooks in Zagreb, they must also have an underprivileged orphanage in Dalmatia that does not even have transportation secured. These are facts, and so we need to talk to our colleague Sanader, fight for the Dalmatian County together like the Rijekans in this case. And you're counting votes. You're counting votes, but the people are leaving. Unfortunately, they don't leave, I mean unfortunately, I'm glad at least they're the ones who vote for you because they're county workers, companies, institutions and administrations, but at the expense of schooling, health care. You control everything where the cat gets a job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91458	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Lucky you didn't win because you'd have to shut down the Split-Dalmatia County. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ante Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is final on this subject it is clear that from all these discussions that we have heard here today that the minister and this team of people whom I congratulate on this law and on the whole procedure that they have made in preparation for this law to come before parliamentary deputies, listening to all this surely accept all this which is seen and what is well proposed here. And some colleagues I can't help who aren't talking about this topic. You know, elections are always a tricky thing. When you lose the election, it's all your fault and that makes sense. Then you would have destroyed it. This is how some have behaved for Croatia both for the county and for Croatia, you know if I don't win, I don't need it, and so does the county. I can only say here because I'm from Split-Dalmatia County but here's the final one, there's a big problem with HDZ there since 93th wins, people support it and it's one big problem for all those who can't solve their frustrations. We can't help them here. Obviously, the people should change. It's often like that when you can't win the election, then the people should change, but the people won't change. In the Split-Dalmatia County, it was this time that the county administration invested hundreds of millions of kunas in health incentives. And this is when the home of health was united in 92 I already said here, 250 million debts from surrounding cities then individual homes of health the county compensated for all these funds. The problem of emigration must be a big problem and it is clear that we have not only the Republic of Croatia but also the surrounding countries. And as for the Republic of Croatia, so is our Split-Dalmatia County, which is a large county, I said here it is little for about 50 thousand smaller than the state of Montenegro. We certainly need to find additional resources in this situation to help the counties, because the counties are fiscally very bad. Split-Dalmatia County is the largest in Croatia, I said 500 thousand inhabitants, 55 cities and municipalities and has a budget of 220 million kuna originally, and it is certainly a budget that cannot meet all needs and there we should expect the decentralisation of the system through health care to help and find ways to help the county and get a better fiscal opportunity because they know best the situation on the ground and know what part of the county they need. So it's the best way to help health care with that state health care and what can be done. Our problem is certainly the Dalmatian Zagora, one of the poor areas that has long moved away, which was the first major eviction in times of communism when people went out to Germany and the Western countries and sought existence and did not recover until today's state. The population has moved out, but we must encourage the population to stay in the area and help them and to give them all the conditions and health care, and education to keep the residents in the area. That's what it's all about. The County invests large funds of Split-Dalmatia, and thus all counties in Croatia and should certainly help them to keep the population in the area. I hope this law and all this effort is especially what you ministers are doing and with these new institutions I especially thank you for another time for this hospital in Zagvozd which will be the center of that entire Zagorje Belt. That's it right there. Those aren't stories. As some of these populists tell stories, you've specifically made and started things and given the initiative and now it's going into realisation. I hope the situation is such that it will soon be resolved. In other areas, it is safe to do the same thing in Croatia and it is the best medicine for evicting the population, and these populists who tell stories are stories for small children. Congratulations and keep it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91460	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanader. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91461	Thank you very much, Vice President. A fellow Sanader injured article 238 demeaning parliamentary deputies because he said that we wanted to, that I wanted to change the people. I can't even change the people. He just evicted the people. They've evicted 100,000 people from the Dalmatian mountain, that's true. So he demeans the parliamentary deputies because he cannot underestimate the entire Croatian people. We can't change the people. The only people who moved them to Ireland were him and his heirs along with Petrz and Fail. Thank you. The health directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91462	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I understand your need to replicate, so since you used three replicas you have a need.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91463	The people must be protected. It's constitutional. He can't change the people. How?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91464	Mr. Bull, you're done. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91465	Don't... party vice president, be all, you're the vice president of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91466	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you are not satisfied, you may submit an opinion request to the committee responsible. Due to the abuse of the Rules of Procedures Institute, I give you a reminder based on Article 239. We move on to the final word on behalf of the promoter, the respected minister, Mr. Milan Kujundzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91467	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you all here for the presence you have endured from the first minute to the last minute, and for those who have been with us for a while. Here we have seen here now live actually how much it took to reconcile seeing things, interests, respect the reality and above all respect the needs of the Croatian man. I think we did it with this primarily safeguarding the interests of Croatian patients, but also trying to make sure that doctors and nurses stay in Croatia. Since I always like myself a little critically, I have to say that today the construction and useful suggestions that we will take into consideration until the second reading and propose in implementation for the final version are mirrored here on the one hand. But also here today, in a certain way, they sent greetings and wishes in fact with a large dose of populism, and unfortunately not knowing this problem, so that many of the things that were analysed were seen and it was quite evident that people didn't understand the depth of this problem, and that these points were discussed by the Health Protection Act. I'm going to look around for not being the same subject of this law, but since it's been said here today, so it won't be if it wasn't compromised. It was in this particular wave where some had the intention to praise themselves and their ranks and to throw mud at those on the other side. We did not really have our own and theirs in the creation of this Law; we had in the eyes of the Croats and the interest of all those who would be sick in Croatia. So, the truth is, this government ended in 2017 with, I'm talking about health care business, not that we didn't create a deficit that was in all the years before, but we even managed to achieve a few hundred million surpluses without increasing public debt. So, I've often said that, so there's been a lot of public debt in the past. For example, from 13th to 14th, Croatia's party is in charge of the new 6 and a half billion kunas, they will return them, and some will decide to leave Croatia because they will be afraid of what will happen to them, so that once again when the SDP government taught power in 2015 the total debt would again be more than 8 billion. So we are now really trying to manage rationally what we have in this, unfortunately, that there is a gap. And Mr. Alexic spoke for example, public procurement is a place where there is space and where we are now trying to call several tenders, many others are prepared to try to make savings. But the truth is that the debts don't get as angry as they were, the truth is they didn't indicate themselves, you mentioned someone mentioning it this afternoon, so I'm looking here at my colleague Vargo who's working with me in Dubrava, thousands and thousands of indicated search in so-called. In the afternoon, unnecessarily stripping off the so-called. waiting list. At the same time, money could have been spent in a different way. We will strive and strive to agree with all of you, with all the stakeholders talking to each other, looking into each other's eyes, nothing personal or emotionally taking into account any criticism, which we better master, and that's why we're standing up for the form that we're dealing with right now. Hospitals were often mentioned here as the main causes of health deficits. They are, in a certain way, the main causes of the deficit, but they are also the main places where diagnostic and therapeutic problems are solved. And only one who doesn't know what's going on in hospitals, and I'm afraid those who talked about it don't know what's going on, how it's being treated, what medicine means today, what it's going to mean in a year or what it meant in financial terms 5 or 15 years ago. So, unfortunately, it is extremely potent on the one hand with new drugs, new methods, but on the other hand it is unfortunately costing. And that, I was able to say to the esteemed Professor. Lovrinović out there now that he was going to meet, so I told him, look at the basic law that applies in business anywhere in the world, unfortunately in Croatian medicine does not apply. So the main postulate in business in the world is the more you do, the better you do, the better you do, the more you earn. In Croatian medicine, it is not, unfortunately, that the more you do, the more complex the procedures they cost, and for that you do not have because these restrictions are unfortunate as they are set, and they are set according to how much money we have, they can in fact not cover it all. And I'm going to comment a little bit on that economic aspect just for those of you who might know a little bit less about it. They say that we, my predecessors or I, or those who will come behind me in Croatia, throw money into the health system by spending 750 euros per capita. I agree that we're wasting our place unwarrantedly. And how do you think they don't know how to spend and throw into the abyss the Germans, the Austrians who spend 4, 5 grand on the head of the people? Or even the Swiss are the worst, they spend 7 and a half thousand euros per capita, and they don't care better, in some segments there is better health care or quality than in Croatia. So it's the truth about Croatian medicine, it's really at an envious level, we need to keep it both quality and availability and people who will stay working in it so we don't leave. But unfortunately, we need to be aware that the problem of how much new methods cost, new drugs, is something that matters. And just a little for those who don't know, for example, now you'll pay any service in Croatia, I'm talking about medicine, and you won't have a rubber or a shoe, I don't even know beer or I don't know what you might pay in Croatia less or more 20, 50%, and this will pay medical service in Croatia 5 to 10 times less than in any European country or 20 times less than in America. So, so much so that you can see the circumstances in which it is done, what it is created, and that is why Croatia is at the very top of the world by the amount of money invested and the quality of medicine that we provide. There's been a review here of unfortunate malignancies. Unfortunately, we in Croatia have a high incidence of malignancies and in this we do not differ significantly with other countries in the environment or a little further. This trend of malignancies is on one rise. We certainly don't have any worse radiologists or diagnosticists now can mention any of them, nor do we have, two hours to cut it short, right? Then I'll be done in an hour. So we certainly have these doctors, these medicines, those resources that are as effective or nearly as they are in other countries. But we have one problem, so I'm using this pay phone right now in the Parliament, to send a message to everyone in Croatia. Let's call the doctors earlier, respond to the screening, actually we established before 2006 the HDZ government, Minister Ljubicic was then, we started screening breast and cervix cancers and were provided with funds, unfortunately we have a weak response. I, unfortunately, went with a colonoscope or a gastroscope or an ultrasound probe, found a tumor and found numerous metastases. So the first diagnosis was already a very advanced disease, and that is in a certain way a responsibility to all of us. Because we all think there's a disease going on somewhere, but it's another one, but we're all the other one, so I'm also here from the Parliament calling everyone to respond to the screening, to go search and that it's because of that thousands of people in Croatia have been saved their lives. And finally I will say this, the objective of this Law is without any prejudice, without any raising of any group, without any falling under the pressures of any group to do what is realistic, which is possible at this point and as appropriate. And I call all of you, as I said at the outset, and in this while there will be another reading, and in other laws relating to health care, suggest, suggest, suggest, and we will all recognize that it is a good effort to classify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91468	I thank the Honorable Mr. Secretary for not using the two hours planned. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91469	Dear Minister. On 1 June 2017, shortly before the second round of local elections in Metkovic, in one inappropriate way you joined the local campaign in Metkovic, you sent a letter to only the candidate for Mayor Metkovic, in which you informed him that the insurance funds for the daily hospital in Metkovic from the European Funds were resolved, that doctors with the hospital in Dubrovnik were already resolved and that it was practically over. Here it's been over a year and nothing's been solved. As I hear it, the capacity that was scheduled for that day hospital has been reduced and nothing has been done. And here, in that letter of yours it was said that everything was secured to send a message to the citizens of Metkovic that if HDZ mayor comes, if HDZ wins, everything will be settled. Nothing's been solved yet, so my question. When's that gonna be? Did you then tell the truth when you said you were a secure doctor and means, that the citizens of Metkovic would be able to conduct all their checks at the daily hospital in Metkovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91470	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. The reply of the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91471	So, the daily hospital in Metkovic will be, as will be the one in Zagvozd, the funds are secured from EU funds. The truth of the will, unlike the people in Split who were a little more efficient, in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska they were a little slower and it was really a project where they thought to do a daily hospital at 1800 squares, which is inappropriate, it shouldn't, and actually there is a delusion, it's not a classical hospital. The daily hospital may in general be a polyclinic one diagnostic center. And there's money. And since it is an integral part of the Dubrovnik hospital, resources are also provided. If it's going to be a month or two before or after, then there's no deception and that's what's going to happen. I think the last information I have is that the project was made and that a competition should be opened for the contractors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91472	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91473	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you are indeed a classic example of a man who does the less he does himself, the more he praises himself. In this final word of yours, we've heard so much misinformation, false statistics, and the fact that it's really fragrant. Since I don't have enough time to elaborate everything on you, I'll just tell you for a little while. In 2013, the SDP government that you attacked so much at least established an inter-resor group to solve the problem of autism system, to this day you have done nothing. You didn't bring in the National Anticancer Strategy. The death toll is growing every day. 40 people died today, and you're scaring people with epidemics that don't exist and you're saying your ministry is doing something. I personally sent you parliamentary questions in April this year. You haven't answered my question to this day. So you're not able to answer questions, especially improve the health care system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91474	Thank you. The answer of the respected minister, counterpart Kujundzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91475	Well, I think Mr. Representative was talking about himself first. I can personally say the following. I'm responding to all the MPs, so I believe he's also being held accountable. I'll check with my ministry. And these other qualifications he's giving, I think they're talking about Mr. Representative, and that's extremely unserious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91476	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91477	Thank you very much. Here, I'm signing the replica of my colleague, Bunjac. He said everything I wanted to say and I can only continue that the amount of demagogy, haughtiness and the sale of fog that we heard at the end of this whole day's debate shows that with you, Mr. Minister of Health at the head cannot provide the citizens of Croatia with any shift in conditions in which health care has never had any money but it now has, while the debts are increasing, waiting lists are growing longer and the column of doctors, nurses and all other health workers on their way out of Croatia is increasing. So, do us all a favor, go to that hospital that offers you such a good salary and leave your place to someone else who will lead your portfolio better and better quality to the benefit of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91478	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91479	I thank Mr. Jovanovic for his advice. I hope that's free, right? Did I get that for free? Well, so will you. I recommend you leave politics, leave the way you communicate. Don't give your grades lightly, and especially don't judge the serious things you don't know much about. You know very little about medicine except that you have papers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91480	I thank the Honorable Minister. I'd like to ask all of you distinguished colleagues and colleagues to stay away from your personal qualifications in this High House. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91481	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister allows himself to insult parliamentary deputies. The only thing he's entitled to, he has the right to diagnose me in the field of his specialty, and everything else he has no right to do, and I expect him to apologize for everything he's just said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91482	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. I've already asked all those present to stay away from personal observations and personal qualifications and I don't see that in any way the other injured Rules of Procedure is, so thank you. This concludes the debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the Minister of Health, Mr Milan Kujundzic, State Secretary Mr Zeljko Plazonic and Tomislav Dulibic, Assistant Minister Willi Berus, Assistant Minister of Ministers Dubravka Jadro and Secretary-General of the Ministry Velibor Drakulić for their explanations and answers to questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-05-0.u91483	Proposal for a Health Protection Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 379, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Health Protection Act and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for, 12 abstentions and 14 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
