ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101775	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I will also talk about an international document, it's not an agreement, it's not something that's being signed, it's something that's actually already adopted, which will also be problematic in the next period, as we can see, that international documents are becoming more and more problematic, but this international document, i.e. the European Parliament resolution, is actually talking about what the SDSS Club is, but in collaboration with its counterparts from the National Minority Club, very often talked about, topics that we have often highlighted, are now being translated into a European Parliament resolution, which was adopted last Tuesday, it is about minimum standards for minorities in the EU. The resolution was adopted, it is not irrelevant to mention, with 489 votes for, the Croatian parliamentarians, most of them 10 supported this resolution, it is not irrelevant to mention, for example, the Croatian National Council in July supported, and welcomed the adoption of this resolution. It's a resolution that doesn't have legal power, it's not binding on states. But this is one document that the European Parliament has also sent to the European Commission and the Member States, but primarily to the Commission to start drawing up a plan, therefore, to establish a common minimum standards for the protection of minorities, which would respect best practices in EU Member States and, of course, be based on the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality. Finally, I hope that this plan, in fact, will contain the text contained in the resolution with the initiative... which has collected a sufficient number of signatures, by a number of citizens across Europe and who will be exposed to the new Commission and the new European Parliament, that will ultimately lead to a directive, which will import the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because exactly what we used to talk about here, it is now said in the European Parliament where Europe, or the European Parliament, finds it regrettable that the protection area of minorities in the EU has been taken for granted, as one assumption that should not be strengthened and regulated, but that the Member States and the Member States respect the right of minorities and that sufficient instruments are externally established earlier. It turned out not to be, unfortunately it did not, and the fact is that over 40 million members of national minorities who enjoy different levels of protection live in EU countries, but therefore there is no common standard. The immediate cause of this Resolution is, according to Slovak representative Josef Nadj of the European People's Party who, in cooperation with his Committee, proposed this resolution, our most important goal is to reduce the hate speech and the problems that arise from it. The Resolution also notes the rise in xenophobic violence and hate speech in the EU, which is most often promoted by the forces of the far right and is now aimed at members of the national minorities. The lack of these common standards, common EU arrangements have proved to be, therefore, in recent years, right in this field, where we do not have a common standard, we do not have a common definition, nor a common policy, and this has all shown a single legal gap in EU law itself that has not paid enough attention to this. Attention is paid only in front of accession negotiations, in respect of the Copenhagen criteria and this is right here in the Resolution being established. We have Copenhagen criteria, protection of minority rights is focused on EU accession, and this mechanism disappears, unfortunately, once the state becomes a member and then we have retrograde processes. The resolution itself stresses the need to primarily fight hate speech, establish police departments to fight hate crimes, calls on countries to include their teaching plans in education on human rights, democratic citizenship and political literacy, to protect language rights, cultural rights, and political rights through special electoral systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101776	Thank you. We're going to another club, the SDSS Representatives Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101777	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, I would like to talk about violence against women over the International Day of Violence against Women, the fight against violence against women. Ivana, Marija, Sonja, Martina, Željka, Ivona, Branka, seven women who were killed by their beloved husbands in 2018. Seven women who were kicking into four walls of their home, I guess, suffered violence and never dared to apply. They suffered thinking that maybe they were guilty of being insecure, so he drinks, often angry, and noises, and sometimes he hits, they thought it would be better, he goes through a difficult period, and at the end of the day what the people would say. What's that patriarchal environment gonna say forever? By deluding themselves in this way they suffered and silenced broken ribs and blue eyes, suffering and silenced and in that same warmth of home among four walls killed by the bullyes of their loved, married, or out of wedlock, anyway. These women, these names, became also M38, MV27, MP52, so the initials with which he stood for many years. I guess we who read one more time just think about how young or old they were and how tormented and finally beaten. At the end of their names and initials, they became part of statistics, which is horrifying, brutal and warning. How advanced we really are, as far as we've achieved in the civilizational level when it's become common to hit a woman or girl because she's physically weaker, beating her to unrecognizable has become a part of the section happened because the bully drank ten whiskey Cokes, killed because she said she couldn't take it anymore, wanted to leave, that she wanted us all to leave her alone. These seven women in 2018, as well as 20 women killed in 2017, as well as 11506 people reported by the police because of the violation of domestic violence in 2017, were either killed or still injured, because we do not have enough safe houses, we do not have enough qualified employees to treat victims, we do not have fast enough justice, the number of unconditionally convicted offenders is low. A low percentage of the protection measures taken and we have a mysteriously unknown number of undeclared cases of violence, mild penalties that do not deter the perpetrator from violence, a trend in the transition of violence from the area of criminal law to the area of criminal law, a high degree of relapser, i.e. the perpetrator of a three-way offence. And the most dangerous thing about society is that we have cases of intergenerational transmission of violent behavior, which, as in the epic song, is passed down from knee to knee. Where entire families live for generations in violence, the victim becomes the perpetrator, and the child teaches negative patterns of behavior, viewing them as normal. So every 25.11. marks an international day of fighting violence against women, in memory of Sister Mirabal who had brutally killed a dictator in the Dominican Republic on 25.11.1960. These women became a symbol of the suffering of violence and the suffering of women. And on that day, there is really talk of violence and the necessary awareness and sensitization of the public, that violence is not happening to someone else, but that it is present in our immediate vicinity, but that unfortunately, it is reported in a small number of cases. And Ivana, Marija, Sonja, Martina, Željka, Ivon, Branka, are names, which we should really say out loud, every 43 days and mark the day of fighting violence against women in Croatia every 43 days, because just then, every 43 days, a woman in the Republic was killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101778	The next one is counterpart Boris Milosevic on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101779	Today I will talk about an event held in my hometown of Sibenik, so today at the Public Institute of the City Library in Sibenik "Juraj Šižgirić", the book Jasenovac, author Igor Vukic, will be presented. The book denies genocide, holocaust,... , a mass war crime committed against the Croatian people, against Serbs, Jews, Roma and all who were killed in that terrible camp. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've been thinking about what to tell the public institution, what to tell the city as founder, what to tell the people who will come to this presentation? In the national department of the library, there are two copies of the book "Conc camp on the Sava", writer, author Ilija Jakovljević, lawyer, Croatian journalist, writer, prominent member of the HSS, who was taken to the camp in October 1941 with a group of intellectuals. He was fortunate to have been released in late 1942, and he wrote that book as a reminder of his camp days that he had experienced there. As we discuss foster care and children today, I singled out a section that he wrote in chapter eight of his book: “They took several hundred to that old Turkish house by the Orthodox Church at the beginning of the month. Ensign Ante and another, they've been hammered. There were some bigger boys out there who realized what was going on, and they were screaming awful. The killing took three and a half hours. The Ensign was suing for being very tired. There were about four hundred of them missing again on Antunovo. The windows on one house were taped, as they were doing when the dark bedbugs choked them with a cyclone. Four hundred children suffocating with cyclone. A thousand two hundred, killed with a hammer and gas for several days unless it died of exhaustion." Ilija continues to write, what happened to the remaining children, how they left some of the children who looked healthiest, how they would take them to the children's homes, if there were no places for them, there would be a further selection. And she was going. At the end of the chapter, thinking about those children, Elijah writes his closing words: “I was asphyxiated in the chest, but I couldn’t cry.” I was reading that chapter, also feeling those words of his, asphyxiating me in the chest, but I couldn’t cry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101780	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101781	Now let's go to the GLASS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101782	Thank you, well-respected Croatian Presidential Assembly, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the key issue that has been opened these days, including qvo vadis Hravatska. On Friday only witnessed one event, a young girl with a prescription went with a prescription to a Zagreb pharmacy and a worker and a pharmacist or magistrate, called for a conscience call and refused to issue birth control pills. Qo vadis Croatia, what does it mean to appeal to this lady's conscience? The conservativeism that has destroyed Croatia will leave a fire behind and the question is when will one life be killed? What does an appeal to conscience mean in that case? So anyone behind their four walls can live the way he decided, but when he does his job, then that job has to work responsibly, or do that job. So from this point on, I would also invite Resoring Minister Kujundzic to do his job, to do everything he needs to do. People who live in a way that certain things, that they oppose certain things simply don't have to do that job. None of us can judge another and none of us can judge the way someone lives behind their four walls to say that family planning is something that is written even in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the right to plan a family and the right of one employee to decide for another? So let us wake up to every minister in this government doing his job in the way he has sworn here, and let us ask Croatia where we are all going together because the path we are going is not a good path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101783	Now let's go to the final debate, it's the 9th debate, honorary colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, here you are, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101784	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Last week we witnessed the following, Austria clearly condemned the Ustasha sign and passed a regulation that punishes them. Likewise, the attorney general, attorney-general Lora Vidovic, clearly and unequivocally said she had begun to revitalise the constitution. From revitalization to the legalization of the Ustasha is one small step. They keep their mouth shut about it, ruling it, putting the problem under the carpet. When you put the problem under the carpet, the problem arises and you snap and fall on your nose. What's history is history is a teacher of life and you can't like everyone. But you must clearly state your views and the task of all of us is to defend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We all swore that, whether we're in legislative or executive power. When they started, and first came the crawling revitalisation, now it started, much clearer, much more pronounced, and the question was the moment when the same would be legalized. My dear country, where does it all go together? Antifascism is something that's listed in the Constitution and something we don't have to doubt about. There's a free splendour, one television, now 24 hours of a different issue of broadcasting ban, all shriveled shoulders, a little smile, when they see kids who don't have certain concerts, repeats things they don't know what they're doing, and everybody smiles a little bit and gets their shoulders together. Croatia does not go the right way and does not go the right way. There are times when, clearly, loudly and consistently, there is a lot to be said. It is necessary to make clear the views, therefore, and to see and listen to what an independent institution says, an independent institution which is the attorney general has made it clear that the Government, the Parliament, the DORH, the MUP do not take adequate measures against breach of the fundamental values of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. When we swore to this House, we swore to protect it. It's our duty to protect all of us, so let's finally do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101785	This is what we came to the end of the debate on behalf of the Clubs. We're going to the sixth debate, a club of representatives of Glass and HSU, a respected colleague of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101787	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, here expires 90 days after Minister Pavic publicly promised to find a solution together with Minister Kujundzic on the concession for payment of additional health insurance. Namely, the price for the exemption from the payment of supplementary health insurance is the income censorship and has been in force since 2004, it has not changed. At this point, this amount is 1,516,00 kn per kuna per member per member of the family or 1,936.00 kn if someone lives as a single person. Imagine a pensioner or a pensioner who has 1.950,00 kn and who needs to be singled out for additional health insurance 840,00 kn and more for TV 960,00 kn, so 1,800,00 kn should be singled out for these two things and where there is food and housing and hygiene and everything else. So why did Minister Pavić promise that? Because in September for the transition of this two kuna censorship, one part of the pensioners, but also other unemployed and socially endangered citizens, instead of paying additional health insurance to a public insurance company at the price of 70 kuna, had to start paying themselves because their income censorship is greater than what is prescribed. I would like to remind you that the income price for the exemption from the payment of supplementary health insurance was set in 2004 and then the average pension was 1800 kuna, today is average 2700, so 900 kuna has grown in the meantime and an increasing and larger number of citizens are becoming a payer of supplementary health insurance. We can translate it into a way for the state to save on the poorest. So in early 2004, the state paid additional health insurance directly in full for about 750 thousand citizens. Today, whether it is single, whether it is income per family member, that number is not even 500 thousand citizens. So for 250,000 citizens compared to 2004 the state is positive. So we have one absurd to increase the untaxable giving or untaxable basics for those who have the highest salary in Croatia and to increase the burden on those who are the poorest in Croatia. If they knew and entered into the essence of the public security problem, this could be resolved within half an hour. However, since no one knows outside of their ministry what is done in the other, no one studies the figures as they stand, then it takes 90, 100 or 150 days to find a solution. As far as I see it, it is not only up to Minister Pavic and Minister Kujundzic, but primarily depends on Minister Maric, since it is paying additionally on the burden of the state, i.e. on the burden of the budget. But again, I'm not an authorized person to solve this problem. Minister Pavic said he would handle it with Minister Kujundzic, I only remind him of what he promised, and according to my knowledge and my analysis of business and public insurance and these statistical movements that I was talking about, I think it is possible to solve the problem in half an hour only to show the will to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101788	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This is what we came up with at the end of the club debate. Now it's time for the esteemed colleague, Silvano Hrelja, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU GLAS, to be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101790	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I promised to talk about this problem until he got rid of it. It has already been 100 days, and 100 days has been given to the new government to get acquainted with the problem, already 100 days have passed since Minister Pavic's promise that, together with Minister Kujundzic, it will solve an increase in the price for the release of additional, health insurance. There's still no score in sight. Why does it matter? What's important is that it doesn't turn out that this government or, that's right, the fact is, this government is raising untaxable bases for the richest, and those who have the smallest income, and this is about receiving less than 1500, 16 kn, per person, or 1936 kn if a man lives alone. This poverty censorship, the income censorship that has been blocked here since 2004, and with every pension increase, not increasing, I am correcting, by indexing, i.e., maintaining the value of pension, purchasing power of pension, twice a year, one part of the citizens falls into the poverty zone because they cross that censorship, and their cost of life increases by 840 kn how much the annual supplementary health insurance policy is worth in the public insurance company, and in the private insurance company, for more than 65 years of age, it's 150 kn per month and worse. Therefore, it is very important to raise this censorship to at least 1800 kn, per family member, i.e. 2200 kn, if a person lives as a single person. I repeat again, it's about income censorship and citizens getting in and those possible help that cities, municipalities from their budgets, are all going in. Therefore, I appeal for this problem to be resolved, not the pensioners to be angry, if it is made by a regulation, and then the law is changed, I said the last time that opportunities and variations to solve it are real. There's also no sheep to get rid of it, so I'm available to explain to everyone how to handle it if he calls me. And I won't run out and I won't solve the problems that the government of the Republic of Croatia has but I'm willing to share what I know about this problem with all those who need to solve this problem. So now, that is, after these breaks and after this free speech, we're going to discuss a minimum wage, which is going to come at £3,000 in the net. So, if, by chance, two people live on such a salary, if by accident, which is very difficult, it's an average of 1500 kn. So, if someone accidentally gets a further job and engages loses the right to supplemental, health insurance on the burden of the state, and indeed one who lives today with 1500-1600 kn, belongs to a fat, per family member, a fat one in the poverty zone. So, I appeal, I ask, I say, solve this problem, by the end of the year, it's been 100 days, people can't, they're bitter because those with the highest salaries in the Republic are raising untaxable bases, and the poorest are getting deeper and deeper in the poverty zone. At this point in the situation that the state pays them additional health insurance is 500,000 people in Croatia, so over 15%. Then, when the censorship was in place, there were 750,000 people in 2004, and someone told me to live better today than in 2004. Do something, do it fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101791	We are now going to the debate of the HDZ Club of Representatives, dear colleague Andrija Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101792	The esteemed Croatian Presidential Assembly, respected colleagues and colleagues, and obviously, some MPs like our colleague Maras cannot be imposed, so use the Assembly speaker to open some topics that have nothing to do with the Croatian Assembly. So, for example. For the sake of the public, it is good to say that in the City Assembly we have 51 city representatives of the club Maras has 5 representatives, 5, in order to get the majority in order to build it you have to have a majority of 26, at this point we have 28 in the assembly, who is glad, who is less glad, 28. A programme cooperation agreement was signed between the 3 parties and the town's assembly was established, as far as we're talking about the assembly, then I'll tell the Croatian public, so let the Croatian public know, we have a fellow member of parliament Maras who keeps coming to the City Assembly and wants to have press conferences despite the decisions of the City Assembly Presidency that political party representatives can't do it unless they are representatives in the City of Zagreb Assembly. As far as I know, there is a SDP club that also has its president Brumnić, who makes the Presidency of the City of Zagreb Assembly one if it is not removed from that position in the meantime, so it is logical that the president of the club as a city representative as well as all 51 city representatives has the opportunity to communicate through presses in the space where it is determined that it can be done. Speaking of our opposition club in the City of Zagreb Assembly, so I think of the SDP to date, two MPs have moved on to the mayor's list and make up most of it. So when we talk about the reason for supporting the city budget for someone to sit somewhere, here's the best thing we can see for example from the representatives of the SDP City Assembly where by today, two MPs have moved to another club. As far as the session itself is concerned, I see that this has obviously caused a great deal of attention she has been called up for 13.12 in the City Hall of So-called. Budgetary session to decide on the budget of the City of Zagreb 2019. It is very convenient to hear the other night of a colleague, Maras, who says it will be against a document that has not yet been seen, and so have some other clubs in the City of Zagreb Assembly. The document was delivered, so within the legal deadline, I mean the budget of the City of Zagreb for 2019. 15.11.16. I think it was sent through e-mail to all MPs, so by 13.12. you have time to take a good look at this document. So, I'm going to repeat two MPs from the SDP Club have moved on to the Bandic Mayor's Club, and the best thing about how much is thought and what is thought about individual SDP representatives is that I'm going to end up with two things, specifically for my colleague Maras. So, a colleague of Maras to win for the president of the City Committee of the City of Zagreb won 800 votes, 800, which is about for us to get one district president at the level of the regional organisation and we have 17. And secondly, the other important thing that I want to share with the Croatian public is that, while my colleague Maras was a minister, he cared so much about the Croatian people he represented, that the driver brought him to the Ministry, on the ground floor, and then he had a special elevator that climbed to his office, so much about how much you hold him to the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101793	Just a little fellow Glasnović, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101794	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is from the hills of the valley to fellow Mikulić, who simply didn't understand what the man was trying to say, stole one lie, so I have to react, 238th, so our club has 7 MPs, not 5 as he said. And the fact that he's acting like he's saying that a man keeps his teeth on the chair in the City Assembly and he likes to see Bandic trade politically because he even boasts about it, he says it's good to cross over and that Bandic buys MPs so I can stay president of the assembly. That's what my colleague Mikulić tells you here. So, give yourself some dignity, go to the Croatian citizens, do not remain president of the assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101795	Thank you. Thank you. Comrade Maras, thank you. A colleague of Maras. A colleague of Maras. You get a warning from your colleague Maras and don't act like one. You break the Rules of Procedure on a continuous basis. Sit down. Here's my colleague Mikulić. Have a seat, because I'm gonna shut you out of the debate all day. Please sit down. Here you go, pal Mikulić. He can't. Comrade Maras deliberately, you blatantly violate the Rules of Procedure every day and I warn you not to do so. I gave you time to take advantage of this breach of the Rules of Procedure because there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then you very boldly and rudely continued to speak 30 seconds more than was allowed. So, please, behave yourself, I repeat again. Here's my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101796	Please don't fight me, don't fight me, don't turn me off from wherever you want to go, but you won't yell at me. Please don't talk like that. Mr. President, don't talk like that. This is not your private front, this is the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101797	Thank you very much. So, the violation of Rules of Procedure 238, a colleague of Maras persistently speaks falsely, 5 SDP deputies are in the City of Zagreb Assembly. What he's done here now and how he's breaking the Rules of Procedure, he's tried it in the Assembly, but it won't work anymore, and this is the best picture and opportunity, how they work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101798	Comrade Mikulić, you have now done the same thing as your colleague Maras. So, first of all, this is not the City Assembly of the City of Zagreb, and I ask that these discussions be conducted there. Since you've broken the Rules of Procedure, I'm giving you a warning too. Before the fifth debate, let's all welcome together students and students of the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, welcome. ... We're going to the fifth debate now. [[Applause]] This is the club of HDZ MPs, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101800	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, two days ago, on November 25th, we marked International Day Against Violence Against Women. On that day, an agreement on cooperation in the field of preventing the fight against violence against women and domestic violence was signed in the government. The agreement was signed by ministers in the government of the Republic of Croatia and we can say that the Republic of Croatia has a good legislative framework when it comes to violence against women and domestic violence. However, in the last 5 years 91 women have been killed in the Republic of Croatia. That's 47% of the total number of murders in the Republic of Croatia. On the 23rd of this month, the Gender Equality Office issued a booklet, a Protocol on the Treatment of Sexual Violence, which was also adopted by the government. So, we can say that the government is doing everything possible to prevent violence against women and domestic violence from happening any less or less, along with these actions and these events back a few days of numerous associations in the Republic of Croatia, so the International Day of Combating The settlements against women is marked by a 16-day campaign of activists. This campaign will last until December 10th and its main goal is to take awareness of violence against women in and violence in the family, and also to take awareness of the prevention and repression of all forms of violence. I would like to thank the Society of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities who here today delivered us these white ribbons so that we here in this high house at least here and for one day to mark the International Day of Combating Violence against Women, so I would like to ask you all today to put on these bands of cocoa we would like to participate in this action. I would just like to say that the Community of the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities has equally provided a report on how, among all women, it is among women that they are threefold more discriminated against and that three times more violence has been committed against women with disabilities. I believe that the prevention of violence and what is a good sign in the Association of Persons with Disabilities opened an SOS phone that women answer and every year women are increasingly reporting violence, and I have to tell you that here in the last year, two days on this SOS phone, men also answer. I believe that SOS phone in the next few years will ring as little as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101801	3 Club, is Club of HDZ Representatives and esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101802	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Today is December 3rd, the international day of people with disabilities. Throughout the Republic of Croatia, this day will be marked in different ways. However, two central events will take place in Zagreb. At this very moment, the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia will receive persons with disabilities, who will be eligible for the signing of personal assistance contracts with persons with disabilities throughout the Republic of Croatia. The second central event will take place tonight at the Vatroslav Lisinski concert hall, where the largest protection workshop in the Republic of Croatia, URIHO, will organise a ceremony concert at which the concert will be welcomed by a ceremony, I would say, to welcome our handball players in a wheelchair, which yesterday in Portugal, won the silver medal in the national tournament. And all of this comes to an international day for people with disabilities. Today in the United Nations, a report will be made on people with disabilities. This report shows that people with disabilities are still in an unequal position, but that positive things are happening and that people with disabilities are increasingly living independently. And allow me colleagues and colleagues to briefly look back at the play that was just played here at this Visko Home. It is an exceptional honor and pleasure to speak positively about how colleagues from other parties want to talk about the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, but then it was still supposed to sit, this is exactly how I sit, not performing a play. As for the pay phone in this assembly, which would be adapted to me as representatives and our Ombudsman for persons with disabilities coming to this assembly, I would like to inform you that it will be completed within a few days. You could have respected colleagues and colleagues, set an example just as far as speakers were concerned when you were in your assembly and when you were in power, you had a representative who also spoke from the post and not from the pay phone, so you could have done it, I don't know why you're complaining now, and what's even more important to mention, you who were the first to say you had a person with disabilities in your ranks in the previous parliamentary elections didn't point out anyone. So you went one step back. I express great satisfaction that the Republic of Croatia has defined the inclusion of persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101803	The representative Suncana Glavak will also present the club's position on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll look back in these five or less minutes and I think it's quite enough to say something about what happened yesterday at the Croatian Parliament in such short time. U usurpation of the pay phone, inability to act at the Croatian Parliament, something that happened in the Republic of Croatia for the second time in 28 years. I will look back at the qualifications given here in the Croatian Parliament and I will allow myself to say that yesterday we touched a new bottom, that we came to a line which I sincerely hope we will never cross. We've low-leveled our co-workers and colleagues. Did we question both the morals and the credibility of the MPs in yesterday's act? Have we questioned the functioning of the Croatian institution, which is followed with care by all our citizens? There will come a moment where citizens will express their contempt for those who treat the Croatian Parliament in this way. According to the incidents we thought we'd never see. From the sexist qualifications at the expense of MPs to inappropriate outbursts, that it was not really a concern for farmers and agriculture, it was actually shown or revealed this morning, it was precisely during today's debate that when most of the bullyes over the Assembly speaker were not present in the assembly and did not speak of a subject they swore yesterday that this was the only reason for usurping the work of the Croatian Parliament, or the inability of his work. Let's ask ourselves, are we throwing out any respect for the institutions in this way, what kind of message we send to our citizens? My colleagues and colleagues, this is my third term in the Croatian Parliament and I thought we would never discuss it this way. I see here colleagues from SDP who have long been here, my colleagues from HDZ, my colleague Glavas, so we see people who have been through different turmoils, but in this way no one has ever acted. So I'm going to paraphrase one great Croatian politician and speaker who actually spoke about another topic in the Croatian Parliament about this other topic, but if we translate into today's event, I think these words of his will be very important. He said that one session would be a day of shame for many of us. And there will come a time when someone will read in the right way everything that was spoken or spoken in the right way about what was done. He'll talk to the time distance. The distance will tell everything about us and about our behaviour will be told by Croatian citizens and believe me today they are not happy with what is happening in the Croatian Parliament without holding anyone moral discipline, it is up to all of us, we are chosen by Croatian citizens. Let's ask our colleagues and colleagues where the border is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101805	Thank you. Grmoy's representative requested a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101806	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Glavak has brought forth a series of lies...... Calm down, Comrade Shuker. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] She hurt her ankle... Comrade Shuker, will you stop throwing? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] My colleague Glavak hurt Article 238, she presented a series of lies, no sexist outbursts were here yesterday in the Croatian Parliament, we had an insult from colleagues Djakic towards MP Panenic where she started, and I would say, the excited atmosphere in the Assembly, after which we had the insult of fellow pitchers to MPs Miri Bulju and to me personally with very inappropriate words and what I'm saying will come from the time of my colleague Glavak when people with contempt will reject such a policy. And if I'm ashamed of anything, I'm ashamed of every stolen swear of Croatian citizens, I'm ashamed of every corruption affair in HDZ. I am ashamed of the impoverished citizens leaving Croatia [[Subject Petrov: The representative of Grmoje, time is up.]] That's why I'm ashamed of myself as a Croatian politician. [[Upadica Petrov: Representative of the Grmoja, representative of the Grmoja.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101807	I let you go on purpose 20 seconds more because you were distracted but the time was up. So unfortunately, I must say that you have used the Institute of Infringements of the Rules of Procedure, I warned you last time that the carrying out of untruths in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, which most of them have brought to the Parliament, is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure so that it cannot be called upon. I have to give you a warning. The representative of the Sunchana Glavak is also looking for the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Article 238. A fellow Grmo, Because his colleague Grumoja talked about something, he referred to something I didn't talk about, but he clearly recognized it. [[Intruder Petrov: I apologize, before continuing, exactly what part of article 238?]] I call upon my colleague Grumo once again to reason, to tolerance, to arguments, to a quality debate. My colleague Grumoja, you've been breaking the Rules of Procedure the whole time, you don't respect the institution of the Rules of Procedure that we should be dealing with. We can't act by the rules, by the law, by the Rules of Procedure. So, once again, please don't do this, and do it day by day and everyone tolerates you. Please be reasonable, be polite, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101809	Representative Glavak, time's up, I let 15 seconds higher because I was interrupting you, because I interrupted you, right. And now I'm giving you a heads-up for the reason that you also used the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure to replicate Mr. Grumoji. I would ask you, do not use a breach of the Rules of Procedure for replicas between you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101810	And we're going to the last debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Miro Kovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101811	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So today is the day of human rights, the day a general declaration of human rights was adopted 70 years ago. Otherwise, many may not even know that Yugoslavia then did not approach the general declaration and human rights. Why? He believes that it is the mixing of internal affairs, the violation of sovereignty along with the Soviet Union, Belarus, Ukraine, Czechoslovakia and Poland, and the Saudi Arabia and Yemen were still restrained but so much about it. With Yugoslavia then signing an international pact on civil political rights, but it did not sign, it never adopted a protocol, which creates a mechanism of monitoring the respect for political rights, and therefore there were many people who were incarcerated in Yugoslavia who ended up in prisons, as well as Franjo Tudjman, who died 19 years ago, as we know. We were in Mirogoja today and honored him, who, because of his disrespect for political rights, was in prison like many others in Croatia. We then fought for political rights, we fought for the right to say what we think, whether it is in the public but also in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament, there is a Rules of Procedure, which allows all possible topics to speak whatever you want. And then we listen to a colleague of Petrova, who as well as his colleague Bernardic is talking about some debate in the Croatian Parliament, he has to talk about the agreement on the pact, about the compact, so why didn't you ask for it. There's a Rules of Procedure, which says, that you can put up with the interpretation, where is this impelation? I've never seen, Mr. Petrov, now he's gone to Marrakesh, I guess, right, impelation. There's no impelation. Could he have asked for inclusion in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, to discuss the signatures of MPs, to discuss this topic. There's no such thing. Who even organized the debate on the subject? The Committee on Foreign Policy, whose initiative? On my initiative. And watch the irony, there's a health and social policy committee, you know who the president is? Ines Strenja Linic, a colleague from the Bridge. It's part of the board, and what? Protection of displaced and exiled persons. Could the board have discussed this? Yeah, did he discuss it? It's not. So what are we talking about? So this is one abuse of the foreign policy committee, which only in the Croatian Parliament, discussed the topic, adopted the conclusion that this compact, the global compact, the report... Noteworthy, because it is the government's jurisdiction, not the Croatian Parliament, it is a document which is non-binding, and we are listening to Mr Petrov about how he is a great fighter for democracy for truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Mr. Petrov, including Mr. Bernardić, should do much better with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, not today, 10.12. when this compact is adopted in Marrakesh, about how... We need to discuss this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who was defending you? I'm the first person to argue, so I'm the one to organize on my board, and did you arrange the debate? You're not. So what are we talking about? So it's about manipulation, it's about misinformation, and it's over the back of who? Me. We're not gonna watch that movie. Because I'm for democracy, and so is HDZ. And because you haven't taken advantage of business opportunities, it's your problem or your lack of information or your desire to manipulate. I must say that it is still possible for Mr. Petrov, that to organise the debate, there is time until Friday, there are known mechanisms, that is true for my colleague, Mr. Bernardic, and he also wants to discuss it. I have already said in this brief presentation that are business opportunities, here I am so open and democratic in the name of the HDZ Club that I even help my colleagues in the opposition, to see little how it works, but we must say, in conclusion, that it is about manipulation, about misinformation of the Croatian public. Somehow, my colleague Petrov and Bernardic, are arriving late in Kosovo or if you want to be late in Marrakesh. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101812	We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, colleague Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101813	Thank you, well-respected colleague of Mr. Kovac, he's injured an officer. In 238, where he stated that Mr Petrov had gone to Marrakesh, however, it is not true, what the Minister of Interior Mr Bozinović goes to Marrakesh, so that in that part and the other truth, we did not ask, it was sought repeatedly, however, only through the home space of the Rules of Procedure to try to put it on the agenda, but it was clearly a desire to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101814	Thank you. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you are, fellow Bull. You were also looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101815	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague, Kovac, was injured by an officer. 238 because he cannot tell the truth, the fundamental truth that the government has made a decision without parliament, that is the fact that today, in Marrakesh, the Minister of the Interior, no God Petrov, no one who is against or against. It's not a question of Marrakesha's colleague Kovac and the Honorable President not a question of whether we agree on and against, if... This was carried out if Austria, if all neighbouring countries.../The speaker has been excluded./... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101816	Comrade Bulj, I won't give you a warning because we're in a period of arrival so think about what you're doing and whether it's good you're doing, so here, I'll give you a chance to do it, here you go, here you go, buddy Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101817	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So in 238, no injured Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101818	There were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and let's not, I beg you, really, once again not to do this because these were classic replicas and that's not what the meaning of a breach of the Rules of Procedure is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101819	Mr Branko Bacic will be the position of the HDZ representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101820	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, to this statement on behalf of the HDZ Club, I've been offered the exposure of my colleague Bunjc on behalf of the Living Wall. Namely, I will refer to several of his insinuations and allegations, first of all, the assessment of the work of the Parliament is not a result of the government's work, nor of the government's behaviour, but of the evaluation of the work of the Parliament, is primarily an assessment of the work of parliamentary representatives, our work which often, when part of the opposition is concerned, in their speech very primitively offends their colleagues and tries to make a debate club, talk about everything and everything, just not about the issues of the agenda, and when this is why they are warned by the chairman then talks about the Pharaohs, about the despots that suppress any form of democracy here at HS. A colleague of Bunjac was talking about trade, so the first sign, the first representative who spoke about trade here in HS, was the one who left Live Wall, fellow Runtic, and who went to MOST and accused the Public Living Wall of trying to bribe him, so that the urbit et orbi wouldn't publish yellow envelopes that walked in election nights, in an election campaign without the donated donors, and when he wanted to publish it, you tried to bribe him, and that's why he left the Living Wall and came to the MOST club. Speaking of other MPs, the HDZ club remains without three MPs with whom he entered the Assembly here. Have you ever heard that anyone, me or any of the HDZ representatives, has shown anyone because these MPs have been bribed to go and tear down the ruling two-thousands? Has anyone ever mentioned that? Did we say that the three colleagues left us here in the Assembly and entered the opposition lines to pollute the area here in the Croatian Parliament, and we heard it from the ranks, for example, SDP, because part of the colleagues performed them, leaving them, are shown by a terrible vocabulary to pollute the Assembly by sitting on the left side of this Assembly. A fellow Bunjac spoke of the Pharaoh, so which the president of the party, the parliamentary pauses in HS, said I will determine that my colleague Bunjac will be a representative, and that he will not be changed by Mrs Palfi, is that someone who said that, who, who has the president, any parliamentary party, gave himself the right to tell myself that I will not respect the Constitution and the original right of every representative that his mandate is indivisible, inalienable, but not, I will determine it, regardless of what Vladimir Palfi has his mandate, I will determine that instead he will sit here in HS, er, fellow Bunjac and then Live Wall speaks of others as other presidents of the Pharaohs behave despotically, as this part of the Assembly is merely machinery for the vote of the law. Comrade Bunjac, first clean your yard, there's a lot of dirt in front of the gate of the Living Wall that you're trying to hide in a way that you spit here in the Assembly that you remember and whenever you remember. Let each of us look at ourselves first, and then let him talk about each other. And Rules of Procedure, I will visit you, my colleague Bunjac, that the Rules of Procedure have been passed and much of the hands of the opposition, and that this Rules of Procedure that we have changed so that we would just prevent the Parliament from discussing everything, just not the laws and things that make us parliamentary representatives elected in the Parliament. This Rules of Procedure has changed well, remember, in a way that is agreed between the ruling and very, very large part of the opposition parties in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, this Rules of Procedure did not go after the repression of democracy in the Parliament, but simply to give priority to what we are elected here to the Croatian Parliament. And we've left options, so here's the one that you've now taken advantage of, which is now what I'm using, which is that at a certain time of the day we can talk about everything, regardless of what doesn't interest anyone, or because you think that's the most important thing why Parliamentarians are elected. Parliamentarians have been chosen to pass laws that will help our fellow citizens' better living standards, and what we can talk about and everything, we can instead, by stopping this debate from talking down in a special room that allows us to call a press conference, instead of talking here, we can promote our own views down here. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure is a good and quality work of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101821	Okay. Good or bad, that's how he's voted, and we're gonna stick to him in all the articles, and now we're gonna continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101822	We move on to the next presentation of the club's position, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101823	Thank you, Vice President HS. The esteemed MPs and MPs, as well as today's European press and in general the media report on yesterday's attack in Strasbourg, we learn that the French police have joined the German police in the arrest and disclosure operation of this terrible crime. The attack in Strasbourg has shown us to all of us, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also to the citizens of the EU, that the threat is still real, that it lives around us, that it exists and that we do not need to experience it as if it happened to someone else far from us. The attack took place in Strasbourg in a city that is a peaceful French city in which the European Parliament and Council of Europe seats and during the time of the Strasbourg attack, MEPs discussed security measures. It should be recalled that in the European Parliament, in 2017, an ad hoc Committee on Terrorism was established, which specifically warned about the urgent removal of terrorist content from the Internet, social networks in particular and the preservation of the privacy of each individual, and, in that sense, the European Parliament adopted a Report on Recommendations of Counter-Terrorist Measures by 474 votes on Wednesday. It is also worth pointing out here the words of the German representative of the European People's Party who says that unfortunately this was another attack on all European citizens, on all the values of the European Union, but unfortunately it has also discovered a series of shortcomings and gaps in the fight against terrorism in the European Union. I repeat why I am talking about this today from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone, the attack in Strasbourg should not be seen as something that happened to someone else and far from us, and the willingness of the Republic of Croatia to respond to anti-terrorism measures is, in fact, the willingness to enter the Schengen area and thus, along with other European Union countries, which are in the Schengen area, strengthens the capacity to fight terrorism. So terrorism is unfortunately something we live with and will have to learn to live with in the future, and it is up to us as the most responsible legislative body in the Republic of Croatia to re-adjust our laws every year and respond to these challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101824	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanja Putici.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101825	And the last club is that HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101826	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, the HDZ representative club really did not intend to use this pause today to plead on behalf of the club, but I assumed, as soon as my colleague Bernardic checked in that he would just say what he said. So, yesterday, my colleague Bernardic, all the masks fell. Namely, your statements have now disappeared without a trace that credibility is necessary in politics, transparency is necessary, responsibility is necessary to the electoral body and respect is needed for the leader of the electoral body. Since it wasn't very easy for you yesterday, how you didn't find it distasteful yesterday, how it wasn't corrupt for you yesterday, how it wasn't a criminal support for your budget in the Primorje-Gorski County. In fact, we have witnessed yesterday in the Primorje-Gorski County, one opposition councilwoman of the Living Wall made a salty mortal and supported the budget proposed by her colleague Komadin in the second vote. Therefore, if you are so credible as to respect the purity of SDP policy, then do what your colleague Maras did yesterday after the vote in Zagreb County said that if it were to happen in the SDP, that this would be an express flight from the SDP, then I invite you to take this afternoon on the trail of respect and your colleague Maras, call an emergency session of the SDP Presidency in Iblar Square and throw out for that dirty trade that you speak and transfer it to, your first vice president, Mr. Zlatko Komadin. You think we believe that accepting the budget of the Primorian-Gorski County is what gave the Living Wall, that is, its councilwoman, who said, in the event of justifying the budget, that man returns to man through love for animals? This, therefore, was the reason why this fat mortale took place in the Living Wall and one of his doctors who was a tough opposition to Zlatko Komadini, so suddenly changed her stance yesterday and supported the budget of the Primorje-Gorski County. Therefore, it is not a good policy, colleague Bernardic. To look at one of your glasses and another of your glasses what's going on in your party. So when you talk about it, then be aware that everything that you're transferring to others is happening right now in the ranks of the SDP. And I will conclude with that, given that we have completed the declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. I call on all parties, all parliamentary parties here in HS to rise above their narrow party particular interests and to support this declaration whose sole intention is to improve, define the equality and consistency of the Croatian people in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u101827	Thank you very much. Now I call upon all MPs to enter the council. I'm asking you to ring the bell so the MPs can come to the council so we can approach the vote on everything we discussed up to including a few minutes ago. Thank you very much. Until then, we'll have a little break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105126	Today is the five-point agenda. I'm going to suggest that we have a united discussion at the beginning. The first two points would be discussed first: - The proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for 2017 - The report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 - would then discuss the following three points together: Proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2018 and the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the fiscal rules for the first half of 2018. Do you agree with such a proposal? If there are no objections, then we'll have a debate the way I suggested. So now we propose to discuss the first two points. The applicant for the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and the proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2017 shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article. 110. Budget law. The rapporteur on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 shall be the State Audit Office, on the basis of the provisions of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. Six. The State Audit Office Act. The debate on both reports was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government submitted opinions on the report on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia, for 2017, I would now ask the applicant to give us an additional explanation, with us the respected Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105127	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, as announced, I will say in one part of this opening statement about the very annual budget implementation report last year and colleagues from the State Audit Office will say something about their part in the rest of the opening part. So, the report was drawn up in accordance with the Budget Law, all the elements prescribed by law are inside. In that order and in that order, I'm going to figure this out in the opening statement. So we start with macroeconomic indicators, as far as they're known and known in public, as the State Statistics Institute of the CNB and other sources of official statistics publish them. So, in 2017, GDP growth was achieved, of 2.9% as was the year before, and I can say as this year's biggest contribution comes from domestic demand aggregated, while individual largest growth is recorded on goods and services exports, real growth of something over 6%. However, it should also be said that there is still a very high level of import dependence, both exports and generally domestic demand, so imports of goods and services also registered an 8% growth. Household consumption 3.6, gross investment 3.4, country 2%. Also in 2017 we have witnessed a continuation of positive trends and from the production side of GDP whether we are talking about industrial production, whether we are talking about retail trade. It is good that there has finally been, not only recovery, but growth of construction activity, and I think it is well known that in 2017 it was the best historical year and in terms of tourist indicators. Inflation of consumer price index measures recorded 1.1%) growth, so, after several years of deflation, negative consumer price index rates in 2017 total average levels of 1.1. As far as the labour market is concerned, therefore, these positive macroeconomic indicators have followed, of course and been visible on the labour market, further decline, unemployment rates, whether we are talking polling, whether we are talking about official or registered. However, what I and many others who operate in the public space and talk about the field of the labour market generally prefer to highlight the movement of the number of employees, they increased by 2.2% in 2017 compared to 2016. There is also a positive balance of the current balance sheet account 3.9% of GDP, at the end of this report you will hear how big it was and the result of the general government budget and we will be able to conclude that we practically have surpluses in 2017, both on the balance of payments and on the budget. Gross foreign debt, at 82.3 paid monetary institutions to domestic sectors other than the country 2.9%. When we go to the income point of the state budget, therefore, they were achieved at the amount of €122.7 billion in 2017, which is compared to the plan, and here when I say the plan, I am talking about the last available plan, which is the rebalancing that we adopted around this time of last year, or, after that, you adopted, an increase of 0.2% compared to the year of the previous 5% as regards the individual components, we move of course from the most important ones, these are tax revenues. They were made in 2017 at 75.2 billion kuna, which recorded an annual increase of 5% and also 0.2% compared to the original plan. One of the components of the Tax on Income in 2017 is still at the level of the state budget. When we discuss Report 2018, there will be no more. We're talking about the state budget. This is income from income tax. You know that by amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, we have left the full income to local self-government. In 2017, in the state budget, they were made in the amount of two billion kuna, which was then a reduction of 9.7% compared to 2016. The main reason for this reduction was, of course, the first round of tax reform, therefore, the discharge, if you remember, the other day we discussed in the third round, so, raising the non-taxable part of the income tax in terms of all taxpayers from 2.600,00 to 3.800,00 kn, but also some other changes, mainly more progressive and increased coefficients for dependent members and children in particular. Also, income from the Tax on profit achieved in the amount of 8.3 billion kuna, which is an increase of over 15%, and I will also re-absorb the effects and results of the Tax Reform. In the IRS, we have reduced the profit rate from 20 to 18, and for small and medium-sized people who have up to 3 million kuna per year to 12%, which translates into 85% of our taxpayers, the IRS pays a 12% tax. Reduced taxes and increased tax revenues in the budget, which means that this is another indicator that tax redundancies also contributes to stimulating economic, investment and any other activity. As for income from the Tax on Value Added, VAT remains, of course, the highest income. It has been carried out in the amount of 47.6 billion kuna, which is also an increase compared to the year before, and we should also be apostrophe that in this system in the first round we have made certain changes, you know that there have been certain, we can call so, the re-use of reduced VAT rates between certain products and services. Also increased personal consumption and also good indicators of tourism have contributed to this growth. Incomes from special taxes and excise duties amounted to 15.1 billion kuna, which was also a 2.6 year-on-year increase. On the one hand, they are determined by the movement or delivery of quantities of excise goods, but also by the changes we made at the end of the year in terms of excise duty on tobacco, compliance with European legislation, something I announced here in the assembly the other day, and, among other things, in public space that we will also have to coordinate further this year. As far as aid revenues are concerned, they have been achieved at an amount of €8.5 billion, they are a total of €8.5 billion, the majority of these aids relate to European funds. European funds last year are somewhere at around 7.5 billion kuna. The rest in this 2017 also refers to some compensation measures which, when granted to state hospitals, in terms of transfers to the health care system are recorded among other things on aid revenues. As regards the expenditure foreign budget, the total expenditure of the state budget in 2017 was made in the amount of 125 billion kuna. This is 98.6% of the budget planned, so 1.4% less than the plan or in the translation of 1.8 billion kunas less than what we predicted, which is, I would say another indicator and proof of the responsible transparent and rational spending of budgets because it will be the second, and I can say for the third year of 2018 in which we do not break through the limits of the state budget what we originally plotted, even in 2017, you see that this is 1.8 billion kuna less than we originally planned. Likewise, when compared to 2016, the total level of expenditure increased by around 4%. One of the main reasons, and I'm going to say a little more about him in the course of further exposure, was the settlement of obligations, total obligations, and also outstanding commitments, mainly in the health care system. When we sum up everything together in 2017, on top of that already, we can say, then, according to the positive regulations, what goes from the state budget to the health system, is further somewhere around a billion and a half added to that transfer. I repeat once again, most of the part to settle obligations, mostly hospitals, whether we're talking about so-called. State hospitals, therefore, KBCs, whether we're talking about local hospitals. For among other things, the intention was to reduce the time limits of paying for meals in certain hospitals, mainly among those at local level, so, whose founders of the county, payment deadlines reached over 900 days. So that's something we certainly couldn't and didn't want to ignore, so from the beginning of practically 2017, we've been paying particular attention to how and how all possible surpluses of resources are in some way directed towards the health system, but at the same time always apostroping that the income side and these transfers can't solve all the problems that exist, of course, in the health system, and we know that the overall obligations are however where and where greater than these amounts we're talking about. Also on the total expenditure of the state budget in 2017, compensation measures for units of local regional self-government, I will repeat and remind you, it was not him, it was not in terms of priorities, but it was characterised by the Colloquial as the 16th Law in the first round of tax discharge and Tax Reforms when we said that we would take a little more time for him to do an additional analysis, and in 2017, everything that local self-government lost from income tax cuts to income, we will directly compensate from the budget and these compensative measures led to no one, nor in 2017 from local self-government being lost compared to 2016. In the meantime, you know, I will repeat it once more, it has entered into force and the Law on Finance and Amendments which, since 1.1.2018, practically put that story on one, I would say, a longer-term more sustainable path because the full income from the Tax on income is their original income, there are no more special purposes in terms of having an impact on certain limits, etc. And the last reason for the increase in expenditure was, among other things, that the government made a very clear decision that since 2009 there has been no correction of the base, unfortunately there has been only one correction of the coefficients on the lower, so we offer our employees in state and public services an increase of base with some of them and signed it, with some of them and not, but all of them are applied to all employees in state and public services, so that total increase in 3 times 2%, which translates into a cumulative 6% or slightly over 6% in 2017. When we look at individual components of expenditure, so I'm going to start right from this last point these are employee expenditures they were made in the amount of 26.7 billion kuna, which is practically at plan level and compared to the year before 905 million kuna more, the main reason is just mentioned, so the increase of the base of 2% of 1 January 2017 with payment in February, then an additional 2% of August 1st with payment in September, and the latest increase from 1st November with payment in December. Material expenditures were made in the amount of $12.9 billion, which is 2.8% more than the planned funding, and in the same period of the previous year, an increase of 1.7 billion, you know that there is one significant component in the material expenditures that relates to the co-financing of the European Funds, and then always has to be absorbed in some way, but here I will focus on the 3 items that had the greatest impact on this increase, already mentioning the transfer of HZZO and hospitals and the general health system 970 million kuna, then we had one obligation from the past, and this was therefore the settlement of debts from previous periods of FINI for payment services and the processing of data for technical support from previous periods of 251 million kuna, and finally increased the allocation of material resources, maintenance and systems for fire protection within the Ministry's distribution of income of 198 million. I don't have to repeat that I have to remind myself at all that the challenging year of 2017 was precisely in the field of fire protection and everything that Croatia and all of them have experienced, but, of course, with the least possible I would say the damage, or most important without human casualties. The financial expenditures of the State budget were carried out in the amount of 9.7 billion kuna, which is also below the plan and that is what I always like to absorb, of course, that the State budget is the one which is the sum of total expenditure or financial expenditure of salaries, but in 2017 when you add up so in 2016 and 2017 we practically have a reduction of over 2 billion kuna of total interest costs in 2 years. So, not a little reduction and I repeat again once again when we say that in one year 2015 we paid almost 12 billion kuna interest, and that year it was almost the complete budget of the Ministry of Science and Education. This only gives order of size to describe and explain in a way how much interest we paid according to the public debt level at that time, and we started with a trend in reducing these interest rates, which is due to the repair of the credit rating, which is why I would say an even more active way of managing public debt where, among other things, we managed to make significant positive steps in restructuring or re-financing of the State budget's due debt, followed by the start of the big process of financial restructuring of highways and roads that will be seen, being visible not only in this year which we are now talking about but also 2018. The expenditure on subsidies was incurred in the amount of €6 billion, the most significant amount of €3.8 billion is for agricultural subsidies, and for direct payments in agriculture, measures to regulate the agricultural products market, with an increase of €2.9 billion each year, as well as in 2017 that component of European funds of those 2,9 mentioned are European funds, while other 1.2 national sources and rural development measures of 775 million are mainly part of the European funds of 651 compared to 124 national funds. The aids given abroad within the general budget were made in terms of 15.1 billion kuna, which is below the plan in relation to what we have drawn in the rebalancing, several reasons for this, on the one hand, we had fewer allocations in terms of the contribution of the Republic of Croatia to the budget of the European Union, totalling 3.2 billion kuna, which is about 70 million less, and then again mentioning the transfer of funds to HZZO 2.6 billion kuna, belonging to a part of the fuel fee for Croatia's 2 billion kuna, additional balancing funds for decentralised functions 1.6, and already mentioning aid or compensation measures to units of local and regional self-government. The fees to citizens and households in 2017 were made in the amount of 45.8 billion kuna, of course, the most significant source, or we can say the expenditure item of which is the most waste on pensions and pension incomes. The peace and pension incomes in 2017 were made at an amount of €37.7 billion, which is an increase of €87 million compared to € 2016, several reasons, but certainly the most important indexation, as well as every year according to the already known Swiss formula two times, so in the first half of the year 0.65 and in the second half of the year 2.1%, as well as the transfer of all those measures that were in 2016 as well as the inflow, the natural inflow of new pensioners into the pension scheme. As far as social care benefits are concerned, they were made in the amount of 2.3 billion kuna, the largest part of which relates to the payment of the guaranteed minimum fee of 560 million kuna, the personal disability of 407, the compensation for the aid and care of 392 million kuna and, ultimately, the payment for children made in the amount of 1.4 billion kuna. As far as other expenditures are concerned, they were carried out in the amount of 6 billion kuna, which also accounts for 8% less than that plan, of which one part of the waste is transferred to the Croatian highways, the Croatian railway infrastructure that belongs to their part in the price of gasoline, the development of the rail transport system, the rural development programme. From the European Union funds, the expenditures remained financed amounting to 1.8 billion kuna, which is about 640 kuna, million kunas higher compared to the previous year. And the last item of expenditure is expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets made in the amount of 2.7 billion kuna, the most significant amount of about 628 million kuna was spent on equipment, modernisation and construction within the Ministry of Defence's portfolio, while for capital investments in education and for capital investments and the EU projects of universities and universities spent 530 million kuna. When we add all of this together in terms of the revenue side of the budget, we subtract, of course, the cost side of the budget and when we look at the total result. The overall result of the state budget is 2.1 billion kuna better than what we have predicted with the budget rebalance itself and even if compared with the original plan and even more significantly better. So only at the level of the state budget 2 billion kuna is a better result. When you add extra budget users, when you add local self-government and when you add those other sectors or individual institutions that enter into the general government budget in accordance with the ESA 2010 methodology, so those figures that the National Bank on the domestic ground report Eurostat for all countries. We have a significantly better result than the original plan and generally compared to the rebalancing plan. And now I'm going to say concrete numbers. So if you remember when we represented the 2017 budget, then the plan was 1.6% of the GDP deficit of the general government budget. The plan was corrected over the year in the sense that it was planned and expected a lower deficit than the original planned consideration of the reasons already mentioned. At the end of the year when we sum up the entire year instead of 1.6 of the original deficit we made last year according to the latest available data from the State Statistics Institute 0.9% of GDP or 3.2 billion kuna of the general government budget surplus. This is where we started in public space at the time, whether this is the first time in history or not, in any case, it is certain that since we follow the statistics according to the European ESA methodology and when we compare it to the period, because it was then apostrophealed one year of the '90s, where also according to the methodology at that time, the surplus was achieved certainly not even close to this amount. So I will repeat again, in 2017, the surplus of the general government budget of 3.2 billion kuna or 0.9% of GDP. This is one of the main reasons, and you know how we have characterized ourselves in the government that fiscal consolidation, the stabilisation of public finances is one of the three pillars of the strategy for reducing the share of public debt in GDP, with of course economic growth and with the activation of state assets. Public debt ended at 77.5% of GDP at the end of the year, which is an additional reduction compared to the year before for something over 3% of GDP points. And when you look at the relationship of 2 years in a row of over 6%, 2018, when we discuss it today, you will hear what our last projection is for 2018 and in any case we see that we are reducing the share of public debt in GDP, I will say even three times faster than those provisions that are prescribed by the Stability and Growth Pact, which are also required of us in the context of the mastic criteria. Before I give my word to my colleagues, i.e. to leave the microphone to my colleagues from the State Audit Office, the annual report on the application of the fiscal rules is also going on for a short time. The fiscal responsibility law has passed the first reading, we have talked about it, there is a second reading in recent times and you know very well that according to this new law, we are now proposing in the text these three rules that are on the trail and practices of other EU member states and, of course, in what we ourselves are doing and without the regulations itself. In the current law for 2017, there is therefore a fiscal rule of structural balance and general budget expenditure and an additional provisional fiscal rule. At first and very clearly, I can say that all these three rules are fully respected. As for the structural balance rules, it says that you must be below 1.75% of GDP deficits and we have achieved not only this overall surplus but the structural balance in excess of 0.9%. As for the expenditure of the general budget, it says that our expenditures must not grow faster than the potential growth rate. In 2017, according to this same methodology, all that is calculated in expenditure growth calculates or gives a total increase of 1.8% to a potential growth rate of 3 %, i.e. the reference rate of the potential rate was 3.6%. It is also a temporary fiscal rule that says that expenditure on general budgets that do not include expenditure on interest and implementation of the EU programme is compared with the annual change in expenditure, i.e. GDP at current prices. When we compare the figure 0.9% of the expenditure growth compared to 4.3%, so on and on that third so-called. The temporary rule can also be concluded that it has been fulfilled. And once again, I will mention this last rule that we include in the new text or the bill that says that if public debt is over 60% of GDP then at the annual level it must be reduced by at least one twentieth of the difference between the current level and the reference value of 60%. In the translation for Croatia, this would mean an eye, even slightly below one percentage point per year, and we reduce public debt by 3% each year. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105128	Now I will call my colleague Serdarusic on behalf of the State Audit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105129	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed MPs and MPs. In front of you, the report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 submitted by the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly within the deadline provided for. I stress, therefore, that once again the subject of the revision was the Annual Report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. The audit was carried out in accordance with international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions with the aim of expressing an opinion on the truthfulness and reality of the annual report. For the purposes of expressing an audit opinion, the planning, accounting of the state budget and reporting, the achievement of revenue and the execution of expenditure, the borrowing and issuing of guarantees and the approval of funds from the budget stock have been verified. For the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 as well as for the annual reports of previous years, a conditional opinion has been expressed. The following facts influenced the statement of conditional opinion among other things. The annual report shall be drawn up in accordance with the monetary accounting principle, i.e. according to the same principle applicable to the direct state budget. However, when recording certain business events, no monetary principle has been applied, the office has therefore proposed for the sake of consistency and better understanding of the data contained in the annual report, supplementing the implementing rules governing accounting principles for drawing up reports on the implementation of the national budget. Also in g. The book of the State Budget did not properly record business events relating to loans granted to road sector companies, which affected the data shown in the 2017 annual report Requests and expenditure on loans, were shown in the amount of less for financing costs. Furthermore, the annual report does not include data on the payment of the claim on the changeover, amounting to € 21.5 million, and expenditure, i.e. revenues and receipts, is less shown for that amount. The audit also noted that individual budget users, through planned multi-annual activities, directly grant funds to certain entities and suggested to review the justification of such a way, the allocation of funds from the state budget. It is proposed to pay more attention to the control and analysis of these activities financed for the purpose of establishing links with the strategic plan or the relevant legal person, on the basis of which the activities are planned in the state budget. The State Audit Office has drawn attention to the fact that the difficulties of the health system of liquidity, the continued growth of the commitments made, hospital health institutions, poses a risk of these difficulties affecting future expenditures of the state budget. The audit also carried out the implementation of the recommendations made in previous years, according to a significant part of the recommendations, the annual report for 2017 was completed on total expenditure according to the functional classification of the data on outstanding budget-based commitments, the potential commitments under basic court proceedings and the outstanding claims for revenues from the state budget. It also complemented certain implementing rules governing the way in which certain business events are recorded, which contributed to increasing the quality of financial reporting in the budget system. Therefore, the State Audit Office estimated that the annual report for 2017 was more complete and transparent compared to the previous Mr. President, the esteemed MPs and MPs thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105130	Thank you. We have nine replicas. They're all headed for Minister Maric's office.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105131	Thank you very much. In his presentation, colleagues and colleagues, the minister praised on several occasions, GDP growth in budget revenues, VAT on everything that goes with it. And here my question is that it is evident that in our budget, after several years of economic growth rates are achieved, there is room to go out to meet teachers, healthcare professionals, means public services, higher than what you have offered them, which is 3% increase. Today at 11:00, they have a press conference, I give them full support in announcing the strike, and once again I ask you to give people who have been neglected for years to do the most responsible and difficult jobs, to leave Croatia, to give them more support with the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105132	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105133	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, here I also pointed out in my 2017 presentation that for the first time since 2009, for the first time since 2009, we have adjusted the base in 3 times 2%, all together 6%, for the next year a 3% increase in base was offered. So whenever we also talk and discuss with representatives of union employees in state and public services, we always come openly, clearly and transparently. So we never put anything on the table that's unrealistic, which goes beyond fiscal possibilities, but what's on the trail, everything we're talking about, we can't single out a single segment in relation to the overall fiscal policy. So, I'm going to repeat again, and this report also shows the redistribution of the economy and citizens in terms of tax rates, and the reduction of tax burden and the increase of certain separations, both for pensions, health care and in this particular case, for the public service, and for that purpose, we will continue. And in any case, you should take care of what's happened in the past few years, because these unions have also mentioned a reduction in the base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105134	Thank you. Comrade Varg, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105135	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, I would like to ask you, about what you mentioned about the health debts of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy, we discussed about this. The rebalancing of the budget is in law and implementation of the state budget, where it is mentioned as part of the rebalancing that some 300 million kn will be provided for the settlement of debts. I asked for a legal basis, for local hospitals, for county hospitals, since there's no legal basis to settle any debts. And I'd like to ask you about the debt extension mechanism, of which you're making up $240 million. As far as I know, it's not a total debt. So he would also ask how much the total debt of state hospitals, which are in the state budget, is. And whether budget controls were carried out, or budget controls, over hospitals, which are in the state budget, and generate debts, so I ask for their mechanism, the creation of these debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105136	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105137	Thank you very much, Your Honor, if you'll allow me a lapus... The last sentence is not a 3% reduction in the base, but a coefficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as health care is concerned, the component of this report is, of course, the report on the commitments made and the total commitments. At the end of 2017, they were 7.5 pardons, only unsettled commitments of billions and 371 million to HZZO. As far as this division is concerned, you know it well and you know it, so the fact is that this transfer is certain that all transfers that we do are in accordance with the Law and regulations, but that where and where easier and easier to make it towards state hospitals, therefore, KBCs are compared to local hospitals, and unfortunately local hospitals are the most recognized in those numbers that I just said, among other things, the reason why we went to this increase in the transfer was to primarily reduce these costs. And there's still time for rebalancing, so we'll talk during the debate and for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105138	We're going to the third line. Dear fellow Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105139	Thank you, president of HS, colleagues and colleagues. Minister, you presented a series of statistics here, let's say, on the state of state finances, of the GDP growth last year being 2.9%, the export of goods and services 6%, employment grew 2.2%, so we're talking about new jobs, a 3.2 billion surplus, I'm going to remind you that the latest report on the state of the budget in 2014 that amounted to the Government's corn was a deficit of 17 billion kuna. In these two years, we have passed a series of tax laws that were aimed at discharging the budgets of citizens and entrepreneurs. Since New Year's Eve, there's again a tax discharge for fresh meat, fish, eggs, fruit, vegetables, where citizens will be able to remember 2.7 billion, do you have any information? How much did all these tax reforms save our citizens money? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105140	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105141	Thank you, Your Honor, for this last part of the question, so with this proposal of the Third Tax Circle, something below 7 billion kuna on three occasions, 2017, 2018, and now these last measures that we discussed the other day, practically 3 billion kuna. So, nearly 7 billion kuna in these 3 years, and at the same time, exactly what you're saying, we have on the one hand and positive economic indicators that are on the one hand the result of tax changes, but also, on the other hand, have a repercussion for the positive execution of public finances. We contribute with the responsible spending of budgetary resources and do everything to make it within the limits. You're back in the past a little bit, I'm not going to go that long ago, but remember yourself when we last year, in general, when we discussed the implementation of the 2016 budget, and then there was the talk that the good results of public finances were because then it was a good part of the years of the technical government and then we said that that wasn't the main reason, but here you see 2017 when we had a full-fledged government, what were the results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105142	Dear colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105143	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. Dear Ministers, you mentioned on two occasions the use of European Structural and Investment Funds with real risk of being used at the end. You have also talked about the absolute amount that is concerned, I am interested in how much this is in percentage, you certainly have a percentage here that can tell us how much we have used so far, or this potential danger that is listed through the revision as one of the problems of our budget that we are not using enough of what the EU is offering us, which is certainly what you and I can agree that we should use more strongly, because in that way, some of the things in our budget are used less, especially to invest in investment, and I am interested in what percentage it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105144	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105145	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs for asking. I would say a very important question from the perspective of the general public finances. We all know the importance and value of European funds, not only in terms of budgetary implementation, but in terms of the overall economic part, I can tell you how much the implementation was, as far as the withdrawn European funds are concerned, what is going into the budget, between 7.4 and 7.5 billion kuna in 2017. All further indicators, I will discuss, of course, with my colleagues in the Government, mostly Minister Žalac, and we will prepare one piece of information if you are interested in, among other things, the Ministry of Regional Development and publishes regular information on the rates of agreement and usability of the funds withdrawn, etc. However, what I can say from the perspective of public finances, one, as easy as it can be for the environment when European funds are not implemented in relation to the original plan, is that it is practically a deficit neutral. Therefore, expenditure on European funds financed is related to the Court's income in the light of the Court's special purpose. So from this overall perspective of public finances here as much as possible We can be... [[Intruder: Thank you]] , but in any case it is necessary to pursue further increases in rates [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] and bargaining for usability. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105146	Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105147	... Well, I don't know, here I am, and here it is. [[- The speaker's off, you can't hear it.]] So, this report also shows that the money in the budget currently has and I think it is really now time, ideal time to raise wages, especially for people mentioned by fellow Maras, so, healthcare professionals, teachers, teachers, social workers and a large number of people leaving the Republic, and they are highly educated and this is the best way to actually turn these trends in the other direction. According to what I said two days earlier, it seems to me in 2019 that it is possible to do this in a sustainable way and that these salaries can grow at least 10%. 6% with the implementation of the proposed tax redundancies proposed by the SDP and an additional 4% increase in the base or 3% of what you offer. So at least 9 to 10% already in 2019 in a sustainable way I can raise those wages. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105148	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105149	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As for the various proposals, of course, they should always be discussed and taken care of, these 10% and you know well that 10% on the total mass is just over 3 billion kuna, whether we speak directly at expenditures, whether we speak on the revenue side of the budget. I will repeat again, which I said earlier, therefore, about our employees of state and public services and to count them from our officers, customs officers, tax collectors, employees of the state administration, employees of cultural institutions, doctors, nurses of teachers, teachers, employees of social care, and now I have left someone out, so I apologize to them, therefore the point is that we do not care about them is not a residual item we want within the framework of the fiscal possibilities that comes to some correction and their basics as well, to feel but at the same time of course there is no more significant threat to public finances. We're talking about these numbers and how we care, and I'm going to repeat that 3% again is our offer. for next year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105150	Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105151	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, but in 2018 such retrospectively you can see a much better picture for the implementation of the State budget for 2017. In 2017, extra budget users had about 1.5 billion surpluses while local and regional self - government units had about 260 million kunas missing at the same time. I am saying this because already in 2017 before the end when we talked about tax reform or that first round, we have come across great criticisms of the opposition, today this situation is completely, completely different and today, the units of local and regional self-government do not realize this lack. So, in 2017, you can look at a far better picture and you can actually talk about a real reform procedure tied up in front of the end 2017. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105153	Thank you, Your Honor, so here I think you remember when we spoke at the end of 2016 in the Croatian Parliament here for this speaker and for this microphone I think I have never said so many times in my life that I promise that at that time we have announced that because of these changes in tax legislation and the reduction of tax burdens in terms of income tax, so raising the untaxable and all that was in measures, local self-government, which at that time was a predominant user of income income income income income tax, and that we will then make a whole system-based sustainable law on financing units of local and regional self-government, which eventually followed. So, in 2017, no one was lost, and in 2018 I'm going to use these 10 seconds to say, the report for the first 10 months of this year shows an increase in income tax revenue of 1.8 billion kuna more compared to the previous year, so more than we said for the whole year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105154	Comrade Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105155	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I think we should do it 100 times what happened last year, and so that's that the state made more money than it spent the first time. If we withdraw the parallel from 2015, which is referred to by colleagues from the right-hand side of the assembly, I will just say that in 2015, every citizen was in charge of 2.800 kuna, 2017, this task for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia was less than 780 kuna, and that it does not turn out that you are some Grinch that does not give our fellow citizens, doctors, our teachers, teachers a higher salary, I ask only one brief reminder of all that has been done by the government of the Republic of Croatia, so the benefits and positive ratings of the rating agencies as it has been referred to both the citizen and the economy, and what makes the government make it better for them all, however, and there are higher salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105156	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105157	Thank you, well-respected MPs, by the way, be told the very positive criticisms of the children are precisely on this last Grinch, in movies, without commercials, but I saw it myself and it's good. As far as the figures and data are concerned, I agree, although I repeat myself once again, there is no intention of going back and going back to some kind of past, but we should say so in 2016, and in particular now in 2017, the practical points of inflection when this trend of growing public debt was changed in a gross domestic product which was actually one of the main reasons if you follow all the rating agencies and all those who followed Croatia, notably the European Commission, among other things, and why we entered the excessive deficit procedure, why the credit rating was reduced. Now that these figures are seen these are at the same time the main arguments why Croatia came out of the excessive deficit procedure and why our credit rating is fixed and here we can say so where we are currently standing at one real step to return to the investment rating according to the ratings 2 of the 3 rating agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105158	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105159	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, of course, by respecting the fact that the deficit also affects the rise in public debt and on the other hand on the credit rating I believe that this continued repetition of the prime minister and you as you seek to maintain the stability of public finances is particularly the control of the deficit to welcome. However, what should be the driver can't happen can't ultimately be the main goal. So, I think maintaining the deficit should actually be in the function of launching or achieving all the public policies that the government has drawn up. Not vice versa that our only goal is to keep the deficit under control. In that sense, I ask you, and what about other public policies, what about health care, what about education, what about all that, in your opinion, the stability of deficits or the stability of public finances?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105160	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105161	Thank you, Your Honor, an extremely good question, and I would even go even wider not only on public policy but on the overall economy and society as a whole. Public finances should in no way be singled out to say so, and no matter what the report on the implementation of the budget is concerned today, we must only talk about them, look, because public finances also have to be in a certain way and directly and indirectly in the function of economic growth, and also about this economic growth good part of what is interdepending, and that is in some way the main challenge in managing public finances and fiscal policy, that not a small number of times, not a small number of times we can call them so and uncompromising goals must balance and bring some appropriate measure. And on these previous issues than respected representatives, so no one is happier that we can pay even higher salaries in state and public services, no one happier at this time that we can settle all health obligations and put health care on a sustainable path, and we can raise pensions, etc., but all this is in some way necessary to balance in terms of all these Let's call it restrictions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105162	And the last replica of fellow Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105163	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, most replicas and your reports point to things that simply don't feel right to speak in one way when you're in opposition and otherwise when you're in power. Because when you look at all the state guarantees issued are issued as part of the aid to the public restructuring sector. And now the question arises if this restructuring process is not implemented then we have what there is here and here in the implementation of the state budget and this is the collection of state guarantees about the actual implementation of this budget is from HZ infrastructure and some other things we will talk about in the agenda point. A number of these reports by extra- budget users also point to structural problems of the Republic of Croatia that are not linked to the Ministry of Finance but to others. And I think that these structural problems should be talked about realistically without populism because that populism comes to the charge no matter what we talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105164	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105165	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here, among other things, your question and comment apply to the previous and others, because it is not only a matter of course of the budget itself and of the implementation of the budget itself, but it is necessary to look at the wider picture in some way. You mentioned extra budget users. The vast majority of them are practically within the general state. And I love it when I comment or talk or answer the question of both rating agencies and international investors, when it comes to whether or not an institution in Croatia is involved in the general state. I say less you'll be wrong if you say that right now. Because ESA 2010 is the methodology but the widest possible coverage because not only enters these 6 extra budget users who are the subject of discussion in the Croatian Assembly, Croatian Water, Roads, CERRP, DAB, Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund and HZZO, but enters between others and HBOR and our Airport Dr. Franjo Tudjman, enters the HRT, enters both HZ and HAC, not to count now. So, a very, very broad coverage and of course, care should also be taken from this part of the segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105166	This is what we came to an end with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we'll move on to the debate. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The SDP representative club is looking for a break of 10 minutes in order to consult on the implementation of the budget or whether there are opportunities for better execution in 2017 but also in the coming years related to the public service unions and their request justified at the moment have a press conference, so I call on all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to turn on N1 television so that they can directly watch what our teachers, health professionals are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the SDP Club gives them full support of 10% pay increases in public services, teachers, healthcare professionals is a minimum of what the government should do. So paying for a teacher who has 35 years of internship in the city of Zagreb is just over 6 thousand kuna. So below the average salary of the city of Zagreb, our teachers who lead our children through life together with us and learn about life below are on average paid and below dignity are paid. So the priorities of the Government should be a decent salary that is enough to live, on the other hand, quality and publicly available healthcare, which is also proven through more salaries to workers leaving the Croatian sister, doctors, all leaving Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia unfortunately does absolutely nothing on this issue. We absolutely support the strike of these employees, we will give them every possible support in choosing to raise wages that must be at least 10% points. So it pays teachers and healthcare professionals, and I especially told the teacher who helps us to educate our children must grow at least 10%, and therefore we ask for a break to consult on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105168	Thank you. The apartment will be approved. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105169	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I also ask for a 10 minute break for the simple reason to agree, what we have said in replicas, that certain structural dangers of this budget are once again highlighted in the implementation of the budget and that we clearly stress how responsible we are to public finances. To bid on someone to pay this kind of salary, so everyone had a chance, he could have done it. However, I think when we talk about public sector wages, first of all, we need to talk about a different way of calculating salaries through paying classes, that work and those who work rather than formality are paid somewhere, that they are eliminated by those huge additions to salaries that simply do not appreciate the quality and value of work but are given because they are inherited. And I think these are the things we need to talk about here in this High House. Because just bid to increase the expenditure side of the budget, colleagues and colleagues, that's what you should talk about, I said it publicly and when I spoke here on behalf of the club about amending tax laws that amending tax laws is about what we're going to discuss today and what we're going to discuss next week and that's the budget. Let's not be hypocrites, so when we talk about tax laws then bidding taxes should be like this and like that. And then when we come to the budget debate, they're just not the same people anymore. Now they no longer say that one side of that budget are taxes and the other side are certain expenditures. But ultimately all this falls on the burden of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. And our responsibility here is not to bid politically and call on certain groups, we will support you rather than to amend the laws and amendments and also to discuss the state budget and extra- budget funds with us on a system that is long-term sustainable. Because if we don't act like it, then we're a group of irresponsible people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105170	You've been granted a break. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue at 11.20 minutes. It's 11:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105171	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.20 HOURS]] I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105172	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ministers of fellow Members and colleagues. I will try to highlight those most important points in this debate, which are related only to the report on the annual report carried out, and also to the annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. What is the name of the point, that is, the proposal for a report on the implementation of the state budget, and somehow this formulation, when it comes to us representatives in the Croatian Parliament, seems a little bit, as we can now, the report is what it is. We can't even put amendments on the reports, so let me say, the report should include that and that, but we can accept it or not accept it as such. So, we're not talking about last year's snow here, but this report and the implementation of the 2017 budget could serve as an analytical basis, to see what happens to our finances, and so in 2017, compare what happened to our finances before that. And of course, have guidelines on what could happen in state finances after 2018, and that may be the most important task of this report. And of course, here I am, using the opportunity right now to commend the State Audit report. Perhaps the opportunity, to say here, that the state audit and the general audit work in the Republic of Croatia is underestimated, that there is not enough neither resources nor sufficient attention to this important function. When we observe the findings of state audits, of any kind, whatever subject they're monitoring, we can find very good and accurate data and some guidance that they can use. Unfortunately, as with other institutions, the State Audit, you do your job, but that job stops. Let us return to the report itself and the most important thing that can be read from this account. The first question, which is raised, and we see that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister are important, because the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister are constantly talking about it, and that is the deficit of the state budget. And now I'd ask the Minister one question, is the government budget deficit really a problem? Respecting that somewhere economists count 1 billion government budget deficits generate about 4-5 billion public debt. And is the state budget deficit itself a problem? Or to ask a question like this, which now, if we decided to increase the deficit for the next year and really increase the wages and direct that deficit to the salaries of our employees, teachers and teachers, doctors, nurses. Would that deficit have been spent? Or to say most precisely, whether it matters, actually, is more important than the deficit itself, for which this deficit is used. If we look at little data since 2008, it seems to me that there is a gap and a curve between budget revenues and budgetary expenditures, where budget expenditures continue to grow, and budget revenues stagnate and decrease. And this government's efforts go exactly that way to bring those two curves closer. However, what is crucial, by catching up with the budget expenditures that are great whether the goals will be achieved by everyone who has set their own goals and who presented it during the campaign, not only during election processes, but during the presentation here in the Croatian Parliament. Minister all his energy and strength, as well as the government is focusing on the stability of public finances, but what concerns us, despite the increase in income, are, above all, that we will see a little later in the data, income from taxes, our expenditures are not being reduced by constants and something is even increasing. Or should we say that as most recently said, structural reforms are lagging behind, therefore, reforms, which could help to reduce expenditure to one minimum, and then revenues, which are primarily burdened by the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. We must not forget, that the minister, too, pointed out in the opening statement, that our incomes, right? are based on an increase in consumption. So VAT, and VAT is the highest tax income, in fact the highest tax income, and tax revenues themselves are the highest in taxes, make up almost 100 billion tax revenues. So we have a huge burden, citizens, entrepreneurship cuts to preserve such a high level of income, which would then cover such a high level of expenditure. Perhaps here, one proposal to the Minister, to call for a meeting with the Prime Minister, on the one hand the table to be the Prime Minister, and on the other hand be the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds, Mrs. Zhalac, Minister and Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Economy Mr Tolusic Agriculture and Minister and Third Minister Lovro Kustević from the administration and to really say to them, we have something wrong with us, one of us must leave this government. Because why? If we have a high tax press, we don't need to, not to mention that the minister in the last tax write-offs, something relieved the citizens and entrepreneurs themselves, but it's still very large, it's still ours, our tax revenues are extremely large and growing, on the other hand we have expenditures that we don't touch, so the question is, and how are we going to, what can we do to ensure economic growth? And then comes the third component, and we are very, very modest, in realising funds or attracting funds from EU funds, and in that sense this meeting should be. We have 555 or 556 units of local self-government, which is why Minister Kuščević should be there, simply asking a question and then, what is missing, which is missing from the leaders of the local self-government units, when we see that a third of the cities in the Republic of Croatia, watch out, no, a quarter, I apologize, a quarter of the cities in the Republic of Croatia did not withdraw any kuna funds from EU funds. And this kind of relationship between our income and expenditure raises the question of what can generate economic growth? As for the revenues themselves, they are, therefore, when we talk about 2016, they were 116 billion 848 kuna, and already, watch out, in 2017 are already 5 billion 858 million and 917 thousand kuna, and the majority of the increase refers to tax revenues that are higher by 3 billion 552 million and 393 thousand kuna, we have an increase in contributions, contributions to a billion 11 million kuna. What is now asking the same as a question, and it is announced in the Plans, in fact, in this package of the Law, that a tax will be abolished on, in fact, a contribution to employment, a contribution to work protection, and part of that money will be paid into the health system, which we see in 2017, the generator is again a deficit, 2018, we still do not want to, or we do not know whether there is a difference between what we want to achieve by increasing income, without touching anything on the spending side, that is, in other words, we still don't want to, or we don't know how to implement a reform of the health system so that it is both more functional and ultimately, in which, at the greater benefit of Croatian citizens. When we talk about expenditures, then we have, 40 billion need for pensions, 30 billion for wages and material rights, we have the social, subsidies, we actually see that it's a robust budget that we don't have a lot of space, I don't know, we could say in a joke, that Mayor Bandic, in some amount of percentage, has more resources than Minister Maric, because Minister Maric is given the most of the budget, he's given, he can't, this way, solve it differently, except this way to distribute you, within the items, but without other ministers, without a firm will to start implementing real reforms, we won't get to the desired goal, and that's every, better standard of Croatian citizens. And what the finance minister should worry about from morning to night, which is how to encourage the Croatian economy, how to boost exports, growth of industrial production, so that the cash register can be filled. In his introduction, the minister said that, as far as employment is concerned, the number of employees is certainly needed, it should be welcomed, but what is being silenced is, that the great departure of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia, will now be with, with the abolition of the restrictions on the Republic of Austria, and it may happen to us that in the future we will have serious problems with the number of labour force, which we will eventually have to and imports, and another issue with such a great tax burden, can pay in the Republic of Croatia be raised? We must not forget that the Ministry of Finance and the budget of the Republic of Croatia, if it does, is it dealing with those areas in which the market is not engaged and, of course, it would be ideal for companies to deal with the pension of their employees in the future, but that is not the case. One of the most important or brightest points in this, in our tax, in fact, our financial picture, our country's financial picture is pension funds that currently have about 100 billion kunas, which is why every announcement about the abolition of II. The pillar is extremely dangerous, and perhaps here, the question of one thought is now announced here so that the funds of this Fund could also be directed towards encouraging the economy, and then it's really a question of whether these funds can be in function of the economy because we see that from the revenues that are extremely large, the revenues that, to say the suffocating Croatian economy, we won't, we won't achieve that despite their increase. So, the report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, we cannot accept not because of the content as it is written, because it was written inside, but because of the message it gives to all of us, which is that we have large revenues, the state has huge revenues that are spent on, to the greatest extent on unnecessary expenditures that do not encourage the development of the economy and that ultimately maintain this status quo and somehow we play catchers. We see that for the next year, and then somehow we can figure out that our budget is the same back a couple of years, it's like that cookie we call a bowling alley, it's got to be like, when we put a frame then it's got to turn out like that, there's no other option. And in this sense and when we discuss this report, we cannot, of course, discuss just 2017, it would be pointless now, we are discussing what needs to be done in 2019 so that this picture of the Republic of Croatia is improved and that our young people will not leave, not only young people, but others will leave now and that our public sector employees will have better salaries but that their efficiency will be better. And there, Minister Maric, with all due respect, cannot do much if he does not have the support of the prime minister because, in my opinion, Minister Maric must be the prime minister in this government if, and he is the one who has to slap his hand on the table, and not the other, and he should be able to say "no lady" in time, politically above him, not the ministers. And if Minister Maric wants to do something, then he should act in this sense to tell certain ministers to do little about their appetites, to reduce consumption, not to hire. Because we have a steady job under the table, no one's crazy not to notice. Our administration is booming and no one is involved in the functioning of this administration. Look we had 2 or 3 days ago, on Friday he was here the Act on the Protection of the plum area of the Cup, one... The project from the EU Funds, be careful we need to amend the law so that we can attract funds from the EU Funds for such an important project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Minister Ćorić said here, it is a rare example, it is not a rare example, we are in all cases blocked, our administration is not doing well and no one wants to deal with it. And at the end of the messages, as much as we increase revenues, as much as we tax our entrepreneurs, as much as we grow and income from tourism, we will not achieve the goal, and that is an effective, vital state, because this budget is primarily a trom, it looks like that symbol of Michel's tire, it's all, in the belly is the fattest, it has thin legs that can be released at any moment. So the 2017 report says we don't generally lead things in the right direction. And it is not only the problem of the budget but it is the problem of the general government policy and I, in the reply of the minister, pointed out that it cannot be the only goal of maintaining deficits or the stability of finances, but the stability of finances must be, aimed at maintaining public policies which will then be or implementing public policies that will be in the function of developing the economy and better standards of Croatian citizens. We're not gonna back this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105173	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105174	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates. Unlike other clubs, the HDZ Club certainly supports this Proposal for an annual report on budget implementation, together with the implementation of fiscal rules. We also thank the State Office for an audit which is very comprehensive, very systematic and systematic as otherwise all audit reports are, and in this case regardless of the conditional opinion, but I think that every intervention and assistance of the State Audit Office is very visible and I think that it helps all of us and also the Ministry and the Minister that everything that makes it better continues because new situations and new problems that must then be parallel to the requirement of time have been removed. As already noted, some think that the budget itself is so simple to change, they all swear on some major structural reforms, and when there is a systematic 3 year intervention, or in a tax, fiscal system itself, then there is countless resistances. The budget must be seen in its integrity and, as the report itself says, 6 years of recession is something that has had a profound impact on all of Croatia, on life, on business and everything else. Therefore, every little one, it is always, I note, every little wheel that moves something he, his effect must be seen only over a certain period and it is at least 6 months, a year or more. Since here in 2017, in fact, it showed that they were all influencing, which is actually the direction of the government, which within two years systematically knew what it was going to achieve, and it is now visible. And if we talk about it then we have to be very careful in the sense that we look at every segment of what has happened and what levels must be respected, in which way, in fact, we look at the integrity of the system, whether state, public administration, whether health systems, education, social services, etc. It's not insignificant when you've achieved GDP growth 2.9%, although we would certainly like it as it is in the surrounding countries, which is for example. Malta, which had 5.7 or Poland 5%, and surely we're trying to do that. Or, for example, Hungary 4.6%. However, if we look at countries that are also EU members, which is Britain or Belgium, they had 1.3 and 1.4% of the BPD, respectively. Therefore, there should be no apriori, dissatisfied with what has been achieved during this period. I would also refer to that, we had the opportunity to hear colleagues say that we are speaking wrongly, both the minister and all our financiers, that income tax did not come and does not go to local self-government units at 100%. I have to deny it, because direct 60% goes to every municipality, city, and then we have the share of the county and that part that, after 100% of the amount, is divided, as foreseen by law. This cookie, we must therefore, 0 kn remains the state budget, so it goes to local self-government units only the way and the system in which it happens is different. And why is he different? For this reason we know very well, to say that Europe has several speeds, and so do some parts of Croatia, precisely from these past times, have different speeds of progress. What affected Croatian, municipalities, cities, counties, and part of the war,... , and unpreparedness in the withdrawal of EU funds etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, with this way of distribution of income tax, we must say that certain counties and cities were in advantage before, even now, because they had not, all the luck had not had war and had not all the things that some parts of Croatia had. But let us, then, wake up in this part of solidarity, we say, and this is what this law has achieved, that of this total cake, indeed, when you look at these individual cities and municipalities, that they have all received in this share greater income, they have a greater income than income tax, usually those passive parts that have not so far had financial opportunities, to ensure their growth and development. So, in this way, we allow these cities and municipalities to create those preconditions, those predispositions for their citizens, so that they don't keep being called, because they can't do it, then that's an excuse and we say, because of that, citizens, young people, are leaving these parts. Therefore, I believe that in this way we have given financial security and power to certain cities, municipalities and counties, to strengthen and thus better manage their resources and create preconditions for young people and citizens to remain, or even to come to those places and not to continue to be passive as they were. So we can't be selfish, but think about it this way, so that the whole cake can be redistributed as best possible. The minister also noted how much total income was achieved, so they are better than the previous year in certain amounts, both in VAT, in profit tax, etc. What should be pointed out is that despite the decrease in the profit tax rate by less and for small entrepreneurs and the general rate which was 20% to 18 and for small to 12, despite this, income from profit tax has increased. From value added tax, which has been issued as said in revenue of 47.6 billion, it speaks of how much the impact and personal and growth of consumption is, as a whole, on the budget and also on GDP growth. What should certainly be noted, and this is a very good tourist season, which does not happen in itself, but what justifiably exists, always fear, whether we have reached the maximum and what we should do in terms of guests, that the number and that the quality at the end of services, we raise tourist services to a much higher level so that these revenues do not fall in the future. It should be noted that certain budget users did well, and that the proceeds from the assets were also the payments of the profits of both HEP and Croatian forests and the CNB, Alan Agency, etc. It is therefore clear that both these budgetary and outside budgetary users are indeed trying to control that they would contribute to the state budget and also to the gross domestic product by their share in the entire system. When we talk about expenditures, then we must say that the expenditures mentioned here are real, we can say that they are partly assigned, but we must not forget that in the years of crisis that have reduced the rights of some public services and that through 2017 these rights have returned but are selectively so 2, plus 2, plus 2 in this health care and similar activities, all of these are measures that have been signed by collective agreements and which have had to be respected, and that is almost a billion kuna. Therefore, what is now desired or desired to further increase wages can only be achieved in a way that is truly sustainable and that what is signed is that it can be truly long-term and respected. When it comes to whether they are an employee, they are certainly in expenditures to represent a certain cost, however, by the number of employees who know how much they cry for persons to be trained for European project preparation funds, etc. and I know that over the past and last year, actually, part of the employees is on the burden of precisely projects that are from the European Union, and in this way they are financed, so they are not from our original funds, but are from projects that these people are doing, so it does not necessarily mean that, that the public service is spending more or that they are employed irrationally. As regards the State Audit Office, he pointed out some shortcomings, but what is evident is that in the records that many items have improved the state of records in the recording of all the outdated and old claims that have burdened the balance sheet of the State budget. The State Audit also warned of the use or procedures in withdrawing the European Union's funds, and it is certain that it contributes to all the market and that this job is done as high as possible. What I would point out, here's the State Review, and it said that, in this period of this financial perspective until 2020, it was arranged somewhere over 70%, so that's something that's from 2014 to 2020, so it's up to all of us to pay a lot more attention to how projects and planning themselves are implemented, and also that the Ministry of Finance can then actually monitor the realisation of the projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105175	Thank you, dear colleague Peric. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club esteemed colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105176	Almost.../Laughter/ Almost. [[Don't God.]] Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers, so Minister Maric, otherwise one of those ministers who spends a lot of time with us, spends his laws on both now and rebalancing and reports, and we will obviously hang out next week about the budget. When you get a report on the implementation of the State budget or when the subject of the budget you can look at it, so you look at numbers, you look at items of revenue and expenditure items, but in the end, the budget is one political document from which you see what the Government was going to do, which were projects and programs, which was made of and which direction goes on. And you can also look at the work of other ministries, you can look at some other strategies and some other laws and other topics, and that's what needs to be done. Because if we focus only on this then of course the debates are on we can only repeat ourselves and only differ in that someone will say on behalf of their club I support or will say on behalf of my club I do not support. When you look at the revenue side then the revenue side of the budget says what it was in the last year that and what everyone warns us and that's the growth of consumption, it's the topic of tourism. And everyone who watches Croatia, so the way we look at each other is one story, we'll look at each other's pink glasses or a little darker glasses, but the real situation is that someone else is looking at us and they need to listen to what they're warning us about. And they warn us that we have a problem with having a problem with this growth actually spending and having a problem with tourism. So tourism is a very hot branch that is very fast you see the result, but Croatia's tourism definitely depends on the weather, and this year there is one problem, which is a large number of beds or beds in the private sector, I'm talking primarily about apartments, which have not been used until the end, and I'd say there's a little bit of such a situation that we should sit down and think about what, and what kind of tourist destination we want to be. The more what we get from tourism in the global, global picture that we have, and in that percentage, it's ugly when someone says it's a little too much for you right now. What exactly am I trying to say? This growth in tourism is absolutely welcome, it is welcome to use all the benefits that nature has given us and to use some of the weather conditions that have given us, so summer is moving or high temperatures move a little earlier and lasts a little longer. However, tourism was supposed to develop and other economic branches, and I was in another country, and I had just finished college, and I listened to the lecture of an economist who said that the product was, for example, when it came to tourism, and that was when it came to tourism, because the development was behind how the Adriatic highway went from 1965 to 1967, so there was a great development, according to which the wood industry had to develop. Everything we use for furniture was supposed to be with us, so it's not what I'm saying right now and what others are going to say is new. So tourism should have developed the wood industry, tourism should have developed more direct OPGs and in a part where it is not a mistake that we have and a mistake that should be taken care not to repeat itself. On several occasions, it's only a little bit to say about this revenue side, the minister said, and I think my colleague Peric mentioned before me so we reduced the profit rate and we got more funding. Logically, there is therefore the history of life's teacher, becoming those dragon measures when they're dragon measures when they're great then you're all actually trying to find a reason to avoid it. People who do different investments, I will not mention anyone in the Croatian area, but outside, says we are happy when our tax policy is such that we do not have to invent how to avoid it in a certain way. And anyone who wants to be an entrepreneur is lucky that his tax policy is such that he actually works according to the law and not invents how to avoid it. And here, when we come to tax policy, we need to hear a little bit of what foreign investors are looking at, or how investors are looking at us. To mention Croatia's place on a scale.../incomprehensible/... business will be another topic but when you talk to certain investors who want to invest in Croatia then they point to three problems. They point to the instability of tax policy, talk about overpriced energy and talk about labour problems, so before it was the judiciary, but now it's third place and I'd say the problem of labour will soon come first. With this labour problem, we'll get to this expense side of the budget, there's a saying that a man saves when he has, when he's gone, there's nothing to spare or he can be tortured. Our expense side of the budget doesn't point to the fact that anyone in that section wanted to be a little reasonable and save a little bit, but it behaves like that, it can be done very quickly. So, economists all the time point to the fact that again at the level I will not tell America, but at the level of Europe there could be recession in the last few days we listen to this about Germany, it does not come directly to Croatia in Croatia as a wave. Well, that wave takes a little bit of this, so then we get this wave, and it's going to come to that, so we should get ready for it now, but it's hard to get ready for this sort of thing in advance. From this report from what we have, I'm among other things, and I'd like to point to three things. The first thing to budget you and when you do it then he talks about the attitude towards the national reform programme, or towards the development strategy. Reform is one handsome word everyone is very happy to use and everyone in the beginning has no one who won't say that I'm for reform, but not in their own backyard. And what any finance minister and any prime minister will have a problem with, your problem is always about pension reform, the topic of health reform and the problem we have with education. And when you look at some other countries not only from the environment, but also from others, you all see that they are struggling with it, and as long as there is no courage, and for some things you need to have courage, it's much simpler to have to be pragmatic so that something like that can be resolved into one reform, in the beginning everything will be for no one for their own yard, and you must inevitably resent it. Resent yourself to your government colleagues, resent someone, but what I said on several occasions did not come to this assembly and the reforms certainly do not live across the street from Markov on the other side of Mark’s square. The second topic I would like to say is the relationship to the use of the European Structural and Investment Funds. The European Structural and therefore Investment Funds if we use them Croatia will be shown as a country that has not used what has been offered it and these funds will remain unused, and we will absolutely have a further problem there, so the European Union works in a way that works more, you have the potential to gain even more in the future. What characterizes, characterizes municipalities and cities to make it very difficult to use. On the one hand, I can agree that the reason for this is, I would say, insufficient preparation, insufficient education, insufficient, generally takes time for it all together, but on the other hand, fear is also in a certain way. I can say that on the example of the City of Zagreb. The city of Zagreb, because it is closest to me, I know this budget relatively well, so I can show it as easily as possible. For example, the state has launched, so at state level, a special niche is launched called energy efficiency of public purpose buildings. The project must be relatively simple, there must be public buildings, very quickly you can see the result, in any hospital, in any nursing home, you can see the result very quickly because it is something used 24 hours and you see that the energy is less and more, and now when you take, when you look at what the City of Zagreb has done, this project that was launched in 2014, 2015, continuous competitions, there are some cities that use everything from this Fund as logically as possible, that the City of Zagreb does not work. And in last year 39 public-purpose facilities were energy-renewed according to the Zagreb model, so the use of the City of Zagreb funds from the City of Zagreb budget is a Zagreb model for then being able to do so by our mayors godfathers, friends, friends of friends, and only with 5 projects is applied to withdraw funds from the European Union. So one of the problems is that problem too, because when you pull out, when you go over the funds, when you pull out, the rules of the game are clear, it's clear at any point there can be an audit, so I'm absolutely sure that the part of why it's not withdrawn, and that, and that's where I'd get to the third topic. On several occasions when, when it is assessed, in general, there is a particular documentation of Croatia, and on several occasions when you try to talk and withdraw with the European Union funds, then it is a flaw that is constantly telling us, and these are the direct giving of funds from the budget to individual entities. That's when, for example, you decide to withdraw, related to energy efficiency, but then under absolutely unclear key, someone gives support to individual, individual municipalities and the City directly for something that we don't know what it is. And that's the problem she's pointing to, the revision. That's the problem we have, so we have 556 units of local self-government, of course it's always someone, according to someone, a lot more prone and then directly from the budget are giving direct funds through the individual ministry that opens up a certain tender, open a certain tender, a tender takes 29 minutes, we've had a case of 2 hours, they know, they're coming out of that competition and they get direct funds, and then of course, as in real time it's all visible to everyone, then once you're trying something else, they tell you but you have a big dubiosis in your budget, and it's a direct giving of funds to certain entities, without clear criteria, without a clear way and no clear results. We at the GLAS Club and HSU, we will not support this report, we think that and we are absolutely sure that for certain things we need to make a step forward, it is necessary, for this step we need certain courage, from this we do not read that we have made a step in relation to certain reforms, i.e. certain projects and development strategies, without that there is no future for us. Without it, the station will be full of kids who not have tried to look for a job here so they haven't got it, or they're unhappy, but they're finishing school, they're not looking for a job, they've got packed bags and they're going somewhere else. But on the other hand, we have a problem and it's a condition that really requires serious thinking and serious sitting and serious defining. In this year about 30,000 jobs, employers said they were praying to get, therefore, to make them import labour. When you listen to little employers they say it'll be in the next year and closer to 100,000, which seems to me a bit of a big number, but let's listen to them, but let's listen to people who are really in the real sector and they say everything. The tourism we are talking to, the tourism that is an important item in our budget, the people who deal with tourism, clearly point to the fact that next year we have a problem, will have no one to work. So, on the one hand, young people are not even trying to hire in Croatia, with suitcases they want out, on the other hand we have unfinished jobs. This unfulfilled job, it's a really big problem, a fundamental problem, and it's something that we all have to sit on together and it's one of those topics where this Assembly, no matter where anyone sits, in this Assembly, should sit down and agree and see where we go next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105177	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105178	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So in my individual discussion of this budget execution, I'm going to approach it in a slightly different way, and I intend to devote most of my time to extracurricular funds. So this implementation of the budget offers us several facts and findings that are such and they unfortunately cannot change more without some things. So, when we look at the revenue side of the budget, we will see that these consumer or indirect taxes make up the gross income of the state budget, that the government, by tax reform and the release of income, by making part of the income available to Croatian citizens available, has stimulated consumption and thus stimulated one part of economic growth, and on this side it can be said that the government has achieved what it wanted. And as for the spending party, she is, unfortunately, as she has been for many years. The only thing that can be said is that the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as far as the expenditure side has been controlled and has done one significant fiscal consolidation, which has ultimately led us to a turn in the international financial market, and to a cheaper borrowing process and to a reduction in the cost of interest rates because this has not happened,... The cost of interest was certainly several billion kunas higher. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So our spending side is what it is and that we can't do much about something that has been inherited in recent times is the cost of pensions and the cost of salaries that are without health care, somewhere around 60 billion kuna. Health with salaries is about 24 billion kuna, and when we talk about public sector wages, then the fact here is that the public sector is at 1.1.2018 compared to 1.1.2017, we are not talking about a 3% increase with a 6% higher base. Because last year, 3 corrections of 2% were made. And this implementation of the budget should be watched... And you just have to say it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Based on 1.1 and base 31.12 for 6% higher points, but here's what. However, what I would like to talk about in my individual debate, unfortunately, is little or no talk about in this assembly when budgeting, let alone when budgeting. However, the recent developments in the Uljannik Shipyard and other shipyards and what is happening in the HZZO, unfortunately, suggest that these financial plans of extra- budget users can certainly be a major structural, this, structural danger of the state budget. And I'm going to start with HZZO, and I have no intention of having a discussion here anymore about whether it was meant to be isolated or not. However, what I cannot possibly agree with is that the cost of health care at this point is in several positions. The cost of health care, whether in the treasury, whether outside the treasury, would have to be in one place, to see exactly how much that health care cost. On the other hand, in the separation of health care from the Treasury of the State Budget, the Ministry of Finance wrote one document that the Government did not then implement, and not the affairs of the Government of the other, which is that it must change that article. 82. The Health Protection Act, so as to finally know how much of the basis of the Health Protection Act in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia should provide health costs beyond what is prescribed in the contribution. So these are simply facts that we can't escape because the Minister of Finance can't affect some things, they happen outside of it. And now we're calculating how much we're actually bidding on how much this used to be. However, the overall health obligations are somewhere around 8 and 200, 8 and 300, have reached about 3.4 billion kuna and that is the fact. It was a fact and during the SDP, it's a fact during HDZ, it's a fact for every minister of finance to wrinkle him when health is mentioned because you just settle something then create some new obligations and that's it. And I'd like to see, in the financial plan of HZZO, actually, the report, I'd like to see those 3 and a half billion dues, not paid commitments. And we can't see that if we have a split, so we're going to run clinical hospitals a little bit in the state budget, we're going to run these others here, and we're going to run county hospitals, we're going to dictate certain things to them, and they're going from decentralised funds that aren't enough to produce losses. We can see exactly the debates in 2002 when the first decentralisation program was brought in who was then talking about decentralisation of county hospitals, and we will see, unfortunately, it came true. And these county hospitals, not with their own guilt, but because of the unresolved funding system, are making constant losses. So, these are facts, public companies, the minister said that according to Eurostat, both HZ and HBOR and Croatian airlines and HRT are entering the deficit for us, etc. In this execution you will see that this year, in fact, in 2017. 234 million guarantees were protested to HZ infrastructure. Let's see what was discussed in this high house in 2013, 2014 when the budget was adopted when guarantees were given to HZ infrastructure. Therefore, these guarantees are given as part of the restructuring project. And we companies, if we are unable to restructure, will unfortunately create losses, we will under cover of guarantees only time-prolonging what might be smarter for everyone to see that from the budget this year we gave 500 million kuna, so that it costs 500 million kuna, and not we will give a guarantee, it is not seen anywhere, so that guarantee comes after three four years on charge, in the meantime we have issued hundreds of millions of guarantees and it is repeated constantly so. It's the same case with shipbuilding. So I remember that debate in 2012, 2013 when the total cost of restructuring of shipbuilding was pushed into the deficit of the national budget for 2010 and 2011. Then it was said we restructured the shipbuilding. If this shipbuilding is restructured, then why is this shipbuilding, above all, the Oil and 3. From May 2014, to this day, he has created nearly 5 billion losses. If it had been restructured in 2013 because it had been restructured, it would not have created losses. Second thing, let's see how these guarantees were given, which for years, how and why. And if you give someone a guarantee, if he's doing something to make it, so he can finance it, then the question is if he made it, if he sold it, he can have a 10, 20, 30% loss, but he can't have 100%. loss. So these are these structural problems that we really need to keep in mind when we talk about giving or not giving someone something. If something can't work then let's say if we can give it every year from the budget to be visible 500, 600 million doesn't matter, and not in this way bypass the story, because I remember the story and what's the biggest problem these guarantees are basically pushing towards HABOR. HABOR is not for that, HABOR is founded for some other things and then we come up with a political procedure for something that we are all finally aware of. This HZ was given 20 lips of that famous excise duty from the fuel that was taken from Croatian highways, so 20 lips got HZ, 20 lips got Croatian roads, but we only discuss these extra-account funds when it serves as a monetizer, but their weight is over 30 billion kuna. Are we satisfied with all those jobs they're doing? Also, another pair of shoes let's talk about this openly, and not today we're witnessing bids should give someone that much pay. Okay, so who's against it teachers, professors, doctors have bigger salaries, is nobody, but look when I was in power, then I cut your salary 3% even though you talked and you're not in the economic crisis anymore, so what you're reducing and now you're saying you should give. So that's our problem, colleagues and colleagues talking about the implementation of the 2017 budget as many clubs discussed today, 3 clubs, 3 clubs, this is about our seriousness and this is about our responsibility. This was the time today not to get the Minister of Finance because he wasn't guilty at the moment when we adopt the budget then some others are responsible, those who received these budget funds are responsible. This was the time to tell them gentlemen yes or didn't you do this? But look, we 3 clubs with letters and numbers 3 clubs are discussing budget implementation, no one in their debate today mentioned the financial reports of extra budget funds, no one mentioned the report on State guarantees charged. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105179	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker, we have several replicas. Dear colleague Sinisha Varga, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105180	I thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, fellow Shuker, here I am glad that you mentioned several problems related to the records and the way the financing of the health care system from your position, I have the impression that you have criticised the current government, so it was a little impediment to your views and this is about, when we look at 300 million kunas that are now planned to resuscitate the health system, you yourself mentioned that there are 3.5 billion kunas not reached, an outstanding debt that is absolutely nowhere recorded in the accounts or the Ministry of Finance through the State budget, or in the balances of the hospitals themselves. Hospitals do not record their financial plans for the following year dues in their business books and that is something that we have a situation that this lack of financial discipline resulted in this double the debt due compared to 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105181	Thank you, dear colleague Vargi, for the answer of my colleague Shucker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105182	Here's a colleague of Varga, so you've established this system, so the criticism goes to you, you're supposed to be undercover if we pull HZZO's income out of the treasury in HZZO will flower roses and this one in health care, so you said that. Well, there was a criticism to you, but I said I had no intention of talking where it's better, one way or another, the result is totally about identical, completely identical. There is no government that has not with several billion rehabilitated health care, there is no government, no matter what political option it belonged to, it means that this system unfortunately something strange is happening, I said that my colleague Fitzor signed the document at the time that she was singled out made a decision on the separation of health care from the treasury that must change Article 82. The Health Act for the simple reason to finally state how much money in the state budget, past tax revenues, must be provided for healthcare rights that are not covered by contributions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105183	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105184	Thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, my colleague Shucker, when it comes to the budget of income and expenditures, we are all aware that these revenues during these 25 years have been very bad, for the first time the surplus in the country has appeared last year, badges we have always spent more than we have earned. Of course, if we're looking at today, the oil that we have guarantees of nearly 4 billion kuna, we're all wondering why we're all entrepreneurs and why we always help someone who throws money into a pit. No one asks 40,000 turns that have failed, another thing I know is that about 25-30 years ago in Hamburg, just as one such firm as the Oilman collapsed with 25,000 people and went into bankruptcy in general, no one ever did anything is a little bit of a human being left as far as I know. So I think that this government that inherited, of course, all the problems that have been going on these 25 years have now come into light, and here we have a surplus that we are, of course, throwing back into the pit this year because we are also maintaining some kind of unhappiness, and also the irresponsibility of certain people who have led it. And that someone should bear sanctions on who let that happen, if there was a reform, and that reform didn't work, and Why no one's answering for it. [[Intruder: A colleague, a colleague of Miciæ, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105185	Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105186	First of all, I would like to welcome our guests from the south, up at the gallery, so my colleague Misic's good income results are primarily good macroeconomic indicators and that the government left a part of the income to the citizens and the economy with tax reform. That's a fact. Everything else is stories for one thing or the other. Whether or not this or that should be helped is said when the budget is adopted, the budget is a lever for the management of economic policy, but I have told you about the shipbuilding of me surprised that in 2013, we were assured that the restructuring programme had been completed. If the restructuring program is over, then how have these losses been created over the past four years? So these are the facts. Let's go and discuss them, but if we take the data that exists at the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, then we'll see who's telling the truth and who's telling the real data.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105187	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. Dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105188	Dear colleague, it's a good thing you mentioned these guarantees that were given during this period just for the Oily Group. Otherwise, the problems that exist, if we see that over 4 billion active guarantees, and that more than 3.2 billion were issued between 2012 and 2016, then we see that this had to be charged eventually. So what you said, restructuring was not done until the end, nor was it valid to show quality business, or it was seen that ships were being negotiated, but that they were actually making huge losses.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105189	I thank my esteemed colleague. Come in, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105190	My colleague Perić, the guarantee is support and we can practically finish the story. Anyone who gets a guarantee gets it based on a specific program. If he doesn't have it, then he doesn't have the right to do it because we should practically give it to everyone. The shipbuilding guarantee issued during a certain period occurred after we were assured that the restructuring programme had been completed. The restructuring program is not complete, merger 3. Maja and Uljanika were created 2 days before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, as, here is the programme with which we have restructured the Uljannik and 3. May. What happened happened, and unfortunately, the government can help the shipyards at this point and with one and two and five and ten salaries. However, if they do not restructure themselves and are unable to make a boat at the price they hit, they will be in trouble again and will again be sought, not the tenth, but the eleventh and twelveth salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105191	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker for his reply. Next debate, dear colleague Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105192	I thank the Vice President, Your Honor, here comes this debate on budget implementation, do we hear each other well? Honored Vice-President, respected ministers, today we are discussing the implementation of the 2017 budget, the movements are positive, positive movements continue, so, compared to 2015, when it comes out of recession and as observed whenever positive movements of few clubs are debated, the debates start with pauses are delayed by our viewers and all to hear concrete figures from the implementation of the budget and, of course, concrete criticisms and unfortunately, there are few who enter into the essence of everything. [[Here, it's better now.]] I'd like to highlight some five important figures here, as far as the budget is concerned. So we have growth for, gross domestic product 2.8%, of course, that increase came from domestic demand. Also household spending is there, is highly simulated and simulation means income. What we can say is tourist numbers are good, of course the construction sector is recovering, but what is also, in the future we will have to keep an account, very growth and prices of construction services and we will need to calculate this in both planning and public procurement to have them later, not only in the budget, but also in the actual number of employees we have an increase of 2.2%. As for total revenues, they were made at the amount of $122.7 billion and we record a 5% growth. As far as aid is concerned, the total aid has been achieved at 8.5 billion kuna. And what was raised on the Committee and in general what we are most interested in is how much of these aid comes from EU funds, so 7.5 billion kunas are coming. As far as expenditure is concerned, I would stress here, of course, that both growth and expenditure have contributed compensatory measures to units of local and regional self-government since 1 January 2017, and here I would also like to say that all cities and municipalities, their representatives, parliamentary representatives representing them, when discharges were brought and when income tax was cut, when citizenship, means one amount of money was returned, or when tax reform made savings for our citizens, it was constantly said that our units of local self-government would be left without budget, so here in my area both Sinj and Vrgorac and Metković and Ploče. These measures gave them more than they expected and definitely did not have a reduction in the budget for the reason that the public, i.e. labour and wages, were tax-discharged. We must also say that part of the hospital's obligations have been reconciled. Also, as regards expenditure on subsidies, and here individual representatives commented on both direct payments and direct calls and the like. So, as far as subsidies are concerned, we have 6 billion kuna and the most significant amount of these subsidies are, the most significant amount is 3.8 billion kuna and refers to agriculture, and here we have very much criteria, and there are very much farmers who well justify the funds they have received. As for the audit, of course, the audit did a good job. What is now ahead of us and what we have to do on a continuous basis is that we need to coordinate to report on the EU methodology and there is nothing we can object to that some of the revisions may not have been done properly. So that's where the audit did a good job. What's most important in the past year is that we left the excessive deficit system, the share of public debt in GDP is further reduced by 2.7% points and 80.6%, respectively, we came to 77.5%, and in further executions, and in the right 6 months we will be able to present much better results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105193	I thank my dear colleague, Dragica Roscic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Not present, dear colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about the implementation of the State budget for 2017, we need to look back at a few. So the fact is, for several years already, we have positive economic movements, GDP growth, which necessarily entails the growth of the state budget's revenues and, as the minister said earlier in his presentation, 2.9% must be positive in the implementation of the 2017 budget plus the drop in prices, i.e., the drop in borrowing costs, i.e., taking, issuing of bonds, taking credits, is also shown at lower costs than was planned for 2017. So that one thing leads to a more balanced budget, that we can consolidate public finances and that there is a certain space, which is then necessarily imposed and where people ask what the state will invest in, what are the priorities of the Republic. Whether the priorities of the Republic of Croatia are investment in arms, or if the priorities of the Republic of Croatia are investments in teachers, in education, in everything I think should work as a state and what should be the real priority of the Republic of Croatia. At this point, our teachers and public service employees are looking for salary increases, legitimately seeking pay increases, because they have been paid, a whole series of years. This could have been justified by recession and imbalance in the budget, but now that there is a balance, when the economy has been recovering for 3 years in a row, when we have higher revenues in the state budget and from VAT due to tourism growth, because of the rise in VAT in 2016, it is now time to say that it is important to invest in our teachers, it is important to invest in our medical staff, in order to have quality education and to have the opportunity to develop the country in the way we want it, not to send messages to people leaving Croatia, and very many of them leaving Croatia, and those we need. Which is why our nurses and medical technicians must leave Croatia and where they should receive 2-3 times the salary, when we are not able to provide them with a 10% salary increase at the annual level. That's what the SDP is saying, that's what we're asking to raise salaries for people who work, who work hard every month. Health workers, social workers, once again I return to teachers who at the age of 35, then you tell me the HDZ gentlemen whether these are adequate salaries have 6 or some thousand kuna salaries. Or, when they go into business, they've got barely five thousand pounds of pay, and we're giving them and asking them for one such noble and great task to help us lift our children to their feet. So on that side, it's clear why they're looking for a raise, and it's clear why 3% is insufficient and 10% is small, but it grabs a minimum payment and restores dignity to those people, because we need that slogan to live a decent life, that is, pay for a decent life, honest work, honest pay for honest work, it has to be one of the slogans that we're talking about here. And we can't, we can't spend money, and I'm convinced that in these 122 billion kn, given how it's managed in some segments of society, there are 100 million kn, which could be invested smarter than 100 million kn, which girls in any way know. Most of the employees in our public sector, in the state service are correct, but there is one part of the staff and I can't help remembering one anecdotes, when I was a minister, I was coming, not as Mr. Mikulić says to work with the driver, in a special elevator only for Maras, the man lies, here I can say it in front of everyone, but I was coming to work, as probably the only minister, with my car. Because I had little kids, which I had to leave in kindergarten and I didn't come to work with a driver. So it's not unusual for a HDZ man, here in the Croatian Parliament, to lie, but this is what I had to say, so a man is lying. But what I saw when I got there. I parked my Peugeot 5007 if you want to know which car I was driving back then, next to one angry Audi, six loaded sports, etc. And I wonder, so whose car is this? Whose car is next to my car every morning I park there, Minister, means in Peugeot, which somewhere cost 100 thousand kn or less, by the car, which is clearly worth more than 100,000 kn, and I know it's neither state nor minister's. How can an official with a salary of £10000 or £11,000 have a car like that in the first place? And I ask whose car this is, and you know what they tell me? What's that civil servant's name? Andrija Mikulić, Andrija Mikulić, at the Ministry of Economy, was able to afford such a car and until we can clarify that it is possible at all that someone has hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of Audi 6 and is coming to work and struggling for that salary, as it is possible to save that money at all, it will not be transparent enough and we will not be able to tell Croatian citizens, that 122 billion kn is spent on the needs they have from the budget. How is it possible that an official, state-run Andrija Mikulić drives hundreds of thousands worth of Audi A6 or, even more sportingly, cocky, a man can't drive, normally and must be a sports car. And then he's still here teaching his classmates and he's lying about getting me into a special elevator. And that's what we have to talk about here. This is how we have to expose these people who unfortunately on behalf of Croatian citizens are today holding their teeth to the chair in the City Assembly and praying to God, praying to God, once again saying that Milan Bandic buys three MPs to stay presidents of the City Assembly. And they appear here and there when someone calls them from the HDZ to give a speech at the pay phone and tell a lie, a lie I just denied. Of course, people who watch 122 billion kuna budgets wonder how it is possible that Officer Mikulić had such a valuable car. That's what everybody's asking, they really don't get it. And on this side we must be absolutely transparent and we must be fair to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and tell them how public money is being spent and how public money is being spent. And that's why I say it one more time and I'm back to square one. Three percent increase is six hundred and a few million kunas, I heard on the board when my colleague used to say that. So 10% would be about 2 billion at the annual level so our people don't leave Croatia, so nurses don't leave and technicians don't leave Croatia. So that our teachers who work hard with our children do not go to additional jobs and can fully devote themselves to them because with 5,000 kunas with a classmate, having 25 or 30 children is not an easy job, one of the most responsible jobs in the Republic of Croatia. And we must give our teachers a decent life. And for that reason, I think that in this budget and for 2017, but especially for 2018 and 2019, there was more space and for 2019, we can still re-negotiate there was more space to allow this 10% increase for our teachers to be realised. It's something we have to talk about here, it's something that is necessary to restore people's faith and allow people to stay in Croatia. Fair pay for honest business. It's a slogan for which we should all fight here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105195	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, and I would ask you nicely to stick to the subject. The theme is not Mikulić and his car and your car. ... Mr. Maras, you said yours, I ask you to avoid such expressions and such a manner of treatment in the future and use a little more appropriate words in this House. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We have several replicas, a respected colleague of Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Maras, I also thought at one point about the fact that Mr. Mikulić loves expensive toys like expensive cars has to do with the Croatian Assembly but then actually when you look a little deeper then you see that it has to do with the Croatian Assembly. Because if the Croatian Parliament brings you all its powers to pass one law that will single out all state inspections and put under one house, so that little Andrija can become a great state inspector and master the entire inspectorate in Croatia, then it has to do with the reality in Croatia and the fact that as long as this country is doing so and is thinking it will continue to be more important to arm the fighter aircraft, rifles and armored vehicles than to arm it with knowledge. The priority of this budget will continue to be unfortunately weapons and how to help little Andrija become a great inspector and less how to become professors to build a knowledge society and a better future in Croatia. It is sad, but unfortunately in Croatia nothing new to say, in the west nothing new, in the east of the same story. I thought that at least at the moment when we become a formal EU member, we would try harder to adopt some positive Western values, but unfortunately that is not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105197	Thank you, colleagues. I'd like you to watch your time. Answer, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105198	Thank you very much. Mrs. Voter, you said basically what's the point and what's bothering our people. While they see trade, trying to stay in office after the post as the HDZ in the city of Zagreb and Andrija Mikulic, who wants to, the security guards were surrounded by the City Assembly to stay president of the City Assembly. And I say once again, God asks Milan Bandic to buy a three or break up politically with three to keep him in power in the city of Zagreb. And that's embarrassing, that's what our people see and what a message it will be to our young people in Croatia when they see such examples. Instead of being fenced by HDZ as a party, he even participates in this kind of trade, in this kind of political symbiosis of trade as the government in the city of Zagreb. We should all fit in, unfortunately that's not the case with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105199	Thank you, colleague Maras. With the best of will, really in your answer, I didn't recognize anything about these two points of the agenda. At least my colleague, Glasovac, did one lock and then moved to the budget and you didn't do anything. So I ask you to stick to the topic that we are discussing, that is, these two united points of the agenda. Here's my colleague, Boric, replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105200	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, I don't think it's some particular courage to attack someone in the House who's not there, who can't answer you. It's really not right. I don't want to go into your work with Mr. Mikulic, but the topic is quite another and I don't see that great courage. But I'm going to warn you of something else about the situation of your teacher story and their pay. One title in 19.7.2012, that regulation means ministers bring or do not bring. You were the minister in that government. Title Milanovic and Jovanovic apologized to teachers for lower salaries. A abolished pay increase regulation of 357 or 9% according to the August calculations will be paid up to 700 kuna. So this one dose of oblivion plus hypocrisy, then create this kind of discussion and say what this government is doing for teachers and teachers. Well, she offered, I mean, as much as the state budget can make. But you, cut your wages and attack and talk about big protection. It's those people you've cut their wages to. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as your government's first decision. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105201	I'm a colleague of Boric's. Comrade Voter, please, you have not received your word. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105202	Thank you very much. When we talk about the implementation of the 2017 state budget, it is amazing that you call me Mr Mikulić is not here. So how am I supposed to ensure his presence? What do I do? How can I ask him to come and carry out his obligation here to Croatian citizens, according to the Zagrebers, though, to the few who chose him. So, he was chosen by one 12 times as many people in the constituency unit as me and on that side, I don't know how to talk about budgeting here in quality when there's no such influential and popular representative in HS? So, I'm sorry he's gone, it doesn't matter about courage. I wish he was here, so that he could hear all of this, and as far as the pay goes, I'm telling you that they're not reduced wages, they're increased coefficients, and that way the wages remain the same amount. But still it doesn't matter, now you should go 10% pay up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105203	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you have such a strong need to communicate with the other side, colleague Boris, please, I am asking you again to stick to the topic you have initially touched, and everything else has nothing to do with the subject and the agenda point. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105204	Thank you, Vice President. Injury. 238 again, I think that my colleague Maras deserved one warning at least because today, in his presentations, he was not holding on to the agenda and continued on to your warning about counterpart Mikulic. I suggest you meet him outside of this assembly, then settle each other's relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105205	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. I've already asked my colleague Maras to stick to the subject, so I hope he'll stick to it in the next reply to the replicas. We have the next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105206	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, you asked why people leave the Republic of Croatia. That they are leaving because the people of this government who led this Croatian state so far have led everything to ruin. The other thing is... The questions of the car you mentioned to your colleague, you accused your colleague. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you're saying I drive 440,000 cars and come here to Zagreb, sharan, I'm not jealous of people who drive Audie, Mercedes and BMWs, I don't know how they earned it, they have some institutions to question. But I'm asking you, you've been a minister, the kind of experience you've had to run one ministry when someone put you to be a minister, whether you've had some work behind you, some proof through abilities and all, but I can see that in the House you're very capable of washing anything that can be washed, and in fact there's no basis behind you to say that's what I've been doing and I know what I'm doing and what I'm saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105207	Dear fellow Music, I thank you. Also, the topic we are discussing and I repeat this again before Mr Maras's reply, therefore, the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the national budget for 2017 and the proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2017, and the report on the annual report on the implementation of the national budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2017, so these are the points of the agenda that we are discussing. Answer, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105208	Thank you very much. It's hard to answer exactly in the total budget when my colleague Misic talked about everything, just not the budget. So here I must first, here, congratulate my fellow Muscle that he as an experienced entrepreneur has entered HS. But the only thing that's a little bit illogical, you say that all governments have worked really badly so far, so people haven't left, and now that one that works best so far, 100,000 people go away last year, so that's where we have to be very specific when we talk about it and, of course, it connects to the budget. And as for how who and what and what legitimacy he has, Mr. Muscle, I don't know which list you've been selected on, it seems to me that you've been selected with Ivan Pernar on the list, if I remember correctly. And now probably 99% of people don't even know what you represent or who you represent at HS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105209	Thank you for your response, dear colleague Branko Grcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you remember, we came to the government in a situation where the Republic of Croatia was convulsing in debt, when the deficit in the previous year of 2011 passed 20 billion kunas and when it was necessary to fiscally consolidate the state and when we apologized to people for doing a responsible job and we bring the budget to some extent in which it should be. It was a real situation. I don't know how my colleague, Boric, and some others, on the other hand, don't want to admit it, say it or at least come to terms with it as a fact. So one day, Jutarnji List published an article that analysed governments and their contribution to fiscal consolidation throughout this time of crisis, and of course, Milanovic's government was the one that contributed most to fiscal consolidation and that was the case and it had to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105211	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. Comrade Maras's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105212	Thank you very much. A fellow Greek, well, that's clear in itself, that's what independent experts say because it's impossible to consolidate finances publicly without making some basis. Both 2016 and 2017 were growth. Where luck was there in 2011, in 2012, growth of 3%, if HDZ had left it behind, they probably wouldn't be talking today about any deficits, reductions, attempts to save, etc. On the other hand, people know that it's not possible to do everything in one year with a magic wand, but that some circumstances have to be settled, so that the growth that is now being realized and the base is done long before the HDZ government even came into place.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105213	Thank you, colleague Maras. We have another replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Maras, it is a sad fact that you are considering the subject of the annual State Budget Reports, showing certain people, you are clearly frustrated. I ask you where the SDP went in Zagreb, where did the SDP go in Croatia? The basic lesson, therefore, when you talk about staffing, first you have to win to staff, so it is basic to you, you should know that as an experienced politician, and if you are talking about opposition, I understand that you are an opposition, that you have to criticise, but look at the distinguished colleague Anko Mrak-Taritash, who is both in the Assembly and in the Croatian Parliament, a very quality opposition that speaks argumentably, and not by throwing mud at people, especially when they are not in your presence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105215	I'd like to thank my colleague Cellic. Also, you've only touched the subject a little bit, I know you're a psychiatrist, but please don't give such a diagnosis to anyone, at least publicly here from your colleagues, because you have no right to do so and please stay away from such things in the future. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I appeal once again that HDZ people are not asking me to ensure that my colleague Mikulic is present when this important issue is discussed. I'm not responsible for that. I wish he was here, so we could discuss and discuss, me and him. As for frustration, the majority of Croatian citizens are Mr. Celic frustrated with the purchases carried out in the Croatian Parliament and in the City Assembly. You justify it, and it's normal for you. And believe me, most people are a frustrated team, I'm not ashamed of being frustrated, this injustice, the spending of public money that you support for private and political purposes, and I'm fighting it. I will fight until my last breath as long as I am a representative in the Croatian Parliament and while I am in political public life, and I am not ashamed of it, instead of you being a frustrated team, it suits you and you act like it's normal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105217	I thank my colleague Maras for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear fellow Bull. He's not present. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on these two unifications of the agenda point. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Deputy Chief State Auditor, Mr Joza Serdarusic, and the Assistant Chief State Auditor, Mrs Vesni Kasun, for participating in these discussions and arguments. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105218	Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and Proposal for an Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2017 The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the draft annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 10 abstentions and 44 against the annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2017. In accordance with the provisions of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning The Budget Act of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Assembly to adopt: 1. Decision on granting consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 78 for, 1 abstention and 51 against the decision being made as it was proposed. . / 2. decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of Croatian roads for 2017, please vote. I find that with 77 for, 1 abstention and 51 against that decision has been made. 3. decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2017. Please vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for and 53 against this decision. 4th Decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2017 Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for and 1 abstention, 53 against this decision. 5. decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2017, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for, 52 against that decision. 6. decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for 2017, please vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 1 abstentions and 52 votes against this decision. On the basis of Art. Paragraph 9 of this Regulation shall be read in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on fiscal responsibility, Art. Article 16(2) Regulations on the establishment and submission of a declaration of fiscal responsibility of the report on the application of fiscal rules, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2017. I find that the majority of votes 77 for, 11 abstentions and 44 against, have adopted an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2017.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105312	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are now moving on to the next agenda points, which we have already united. So, we will discuss the following points: Proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2018 and the proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2018. The second point of the draft amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the projection for 2019 and 2020, with the proposals for amending and supplementing the financial plans of non-profit users for 2018 and the projection of plans for 2019 and 2020, with reasons for Croatian waters, Croatian roads, for the Centre for Restructuring and Sales, for the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. Third item of the agenda, Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, II. reading, PZ number: 497. So these three points of the agenda we united in the debate into one. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the relevant Committees on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on War Veterans. I call on the representative of the proposing, the respected finance minister, Mr. Zdravko Marić to give us an additional explanation of the proposal of these three points united in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105313	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. Here, this unification of three points, so in these 30 minutes I'm going to try all covered, what's relevant is somehow connected to each other pretty much. So we start with a six-year-old report. Like this one for the whole year, it contains all the elements prescribed by law. In the first 6 months of 2018, gross domestic product increased 2.7%, at the same time and inflation 1.4%, industrial production 0.4%, trade turnover to less than 3.9%, construction 3.0%, number of overnight tourists 8.8%, so this is the case in the shortest possible lines of macroeconomic indicators. As for the revenue side of the budget, the total revenues of the state budget in the first half of 2018 were reached at 59.9 billion kuna, which is an annual increase of 2.9% or 46.5% of the annual plan. Tax revenues are of course the most significant, mainly in the first six months, so let me say that 35.4 billion kuna is collected. As for certain tax revenues, I skip, no longer mentioning income from income tax, it is no longer the income of the state budget but only local self-government, and then I start with profit tax revenue, it is achieved at an amount of 4.9 billion kuna, which is the 58.3 year plan, so even above the plan in the first 6 months, at an annual level it is reduced by about 1%. As far as value added tax revenues are concerned, they have been achieved at an amount of 22.5 billion kuna, which is an increase of 4.9%, you know that from 1.1.2018 we have had several changes, from the recognition of 50% purchase costs and maintenance of cars and means of transport for official purposes to the increase of VAT thresholds from 230 to 300 thousand kuna. Incomes from special taxes and excise taxes of 7.1 billion, an increase of 7.3%, revenue from contributions in the first half of 2018, €12.2 billion, an annual increase of 7.5% mostly as a result of positive trends in the labour market. As for the expenditure side of the budget in the first 6 months, they were made in the amount of HRK 61.8 billion, which is 46.4% of the annual plan compared to the same period of the previous year by a rise of 3.3%. When we look at total expenditures for the first 6 months of 2018 as usual, the part relating to general sources should be separated from what applies to so-called ‘. other sources, mainly European aid. The expenditure on employees in the first 6 months was made in the amount of HRK 13.6 billion, which is an increase of HRK 744 million compared to the year before, i.e. the same period of the previous year, above all, as a result of the application of collective agreements as of course and the transfer of all the effects, corrections, the basis of salaries of state and public officials from 2017. Material expenditures amounted to 5.4 billion, an increase of 130 million kuna or 2.5%, 41.2% of the annual plan. The financial expenditures of $ 4.8 billion, which is also something below 50% of the total plan, the 2018 annual plan. The subsidy expenditure was made in the first 6 months of 3.5 billion kuna, which is 54.2% of the planned funds. You yourself know that given that subsidies are largely related to agricultural subsidies, it is the first half of a year in general where most of the funds are implemented. As for the aid given abroad and within the general state, they were executed in the amount of 6.6 billion kuna. The most important part of this remains with regard to our contribution to the EU budget as well as to the transfer of HZZO, roads, assistance... functions like other aids. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for remuneration for citizens and households, the majority refers to pensions and pension incomes of 19.4 billion kuna. At the beginning of this year, we had one correction, an indexation of 1%, but of course all of those effects of last year's indexation, the inflow of new pensioners, as usually happens. The social care fee was made in the amount of 1.1 billion kuna, of which the most significant guaranteeed minimum compensation, personal disability and allowance for both children and children contributed the most to this. For an additional maternity leave and equipment for a newborn child, 768 million kuna has also been allocated, which is also an increase of about 200 million kuna compared to the same period of the previous year as the allowance for children who made 613.5 million kuna. Of the other expenditures, they were carried out in the amount of 3.2 billion kuna, mostly HAC and HZ infrastructure transfers. Finally, expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets was made in the amount of 873 million kuna. When we add these results to the extra budget users we are also discussing today and these are the total revenues of 15.9 billion kuna for them, the expenditures of 14.2 billion kuna. And I can say that, I would say all six won in the first six months and a better result than what was originally planned. When we add to this a report that is not the subject of our today's debate, local self-government, but when we consolidate it all together for the general state, for the first 6 months, so I will compare the result again with the first 6 months of 2017 but also generally on the overall plan for this year. The result is that in the first 6 months of this year, the general government budget according to ESA 2010 is a methodology, that is, according to the methodology in which we must include, of course, all other corrections in surplus 1.6 billion kuna or 0.5% of GDP, which when you look at compared to the year before when we first reported for the first 6 months of 2017, the first time we said the word surplus, here you can see that in the first 6 months of 2018, this result is even better. However, in the next point, we will also discuss budget rebalances for next year, so I will also look back on the overall planned result for 2018. As regards this report, budget rebalances for this year, i.e. changes and additions to the state budget. So this is all I've said in the first six months, these trends have been well carried over for the rest of the year or for the rest of the year, so there's no need to repeat the macroeconomic results now, but I can go straight to the revenues of the state budget. So according to this rebalancing or these changes and additions to our projections, they say, and the new plan plans to increase the total revenues of the state budget from 129 to 129,2 billion kuna. It's total income, and now we're going to do a parchment by one. So when you look at tax revenues, you predict a growth of 2.1 billion kuna or 2.7%, most of VAT, VAT is planned under this proposal of 51.1 billion kuna, which is a growth of 3.1%. So on the one hand, this positive movement in the economy, whether we're talking about total GDP, whether we're talking about personal consumption, whether we're talking about tourist indicators and, of course, an increase in available income. The tax profit planned to amount to 8.4 billion kuna, which is an increase of 1.3%, contributes 24.9 billion kuna or a growth of 2.6% also in line with favourable labour market developments. Income from administrative and administrative fees, an increase of as much as 18%. As regards the reduction of State budget revenues, the reduction compared to the original projection by 2.6 billion kuna is mostly the part that concerns the withdrawal of funds from European funds. Income from assets, a reduction of 434 million kuna compared to the original plan. As regards the expenditure of the state budget, therefore expenditures, these changes and the additions of the State budget for 2018 are planned amounting to HRK 131.7 billion, which is 1.6 billion less than the original plan. When we create this parchment, these general sources, so to speak, so to speak. national funds, which we finance from all these general sources and receipts, such as taxes, contributions, etc. they remain at the same level within the total limits, while this reduction is practically entirely at these other sources. Now, we have to say that within the very divisions of certain budget users, a significant amount has been made so far, a redistribution of certain ministries within their divisions of certain savings that they have redistributed for some other purposes, so I will single out among the rest of the ministry of labour and pension systems, all practically insufficient resources within their division have found, as well as within the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, one part that will be further transferred to the county road administrations, have also been found within their redistributions, but when we look at the total budget, how much he, in fact, will again be reduced by one billion and 600, so when you look at total, all the expensive savings in the state budget, the largest part of which, once again, for three years in a row, refers to a reduction of interest. As for what most in the budget rebalancing is being redistributed, or, in addition, I will first mention a health care system of 405.3 million kn, of which I am talking about hospital obligations, whether I am talking about state, whether I am talking about a county amount of 305.3 million kn, of which an additional 147 million kn, is actually provided within the redistributed health ministry. Also the transfer of HZZO for sickness benefits above 42 days, amounting to 100 million kn. We also have obligations in court disputes. You know well that many of these decisions, or judgments of the courts, are ultimately, when they are against the Republic of Croatia, then we have an obligation when they become able to pay, not only the principal, but of course all the interest that belongs to them. In this budget rebalancing alone, an additional €312.6 million is foreseen, according to the court disputes, which the state, as a central state, lost. As far as other redistributions are concerned, I will certainly mention additional pension funds of £270 million again, fully secured by the internal redistribution of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, then other expenditure on employees, primarily the application of a collective contract, which applies to the good part of the transport, but also some other provisions of 184 million kn. Compensation for assistance and care and personal disability 104.5 million kn, additional, additional maternity leave of 92.9 million kn additional. The Fund for the Co-financing of European Projects 80.9 million kn, and the salary of 63.1 million kn, in individual ministries, such as the Ministry of the Interior, for demography, family, youth and social policy, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, and the Ministry of Culture, I will repeat again because of the application of collective... collective and sublegal acts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we look at the economic classification of the state budget, employee expenditures, now according to this rebalancing for the whole of 2018 are planned at the level of €28.3 billion, material expenditure on €13.4 billion, financial expenditures of €9.3 billion, subsidies of €6.7 billion, aid given abroad within the general budget of €15.8 billion, fees to citizens and households €47.8 billion, other expenditures, 6.9 billion and ultimately expenditures to obtain non-financial assets of €3.8 billion. During the course and discussion, we will be able to enter certain details of individual categories, but this dazzling representation of the part relating to the cost side of the state budget according to the economic classification. In the proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of 2018, however, I have to say, unfortunately, to make one difference compared to the same case a year ago, when I stood before you and presented or in some way explained the then proposed changes and addition of the state budget for 2017, where in a more or less similar way we have established, we have an extra income, relative to the original plan, expenditures, we don't break down in terms of limit, we do internal redistribution, we do according to certain savings that we made, and last year we also mostly at interest expenditures, we redistribute for certain purposes you remember last year, and then health was practically the main, we can say, we'll call it, the collocts of additional funds, but also some other things we've been redisting, all the same. However, here we have another element to apostrophe and that is the fact that what is called in the budget is called below the line, but it is an integral part of the state budget, according to the national methodology, does not enter, but according to the European methodology of ESA 2010, it is very much entering into the scope of the total public finances, is the situation, with so-called. guarantee reserve. Guarantee reserves, now a longer series of Mr. Traditionally, I would say, plans of €265 million and which is generally used for the protested guarantees of different entities, for which the state guarantees. So far these amounts have been in general and globally, in fact, amounts where guarantee reserves were more than enough to settle all these obligations. This gentleman unfortunately we have a situation that the guaranteed reserves are multiplely insufficient for the total settlement of liabilities, so these changes and additions suggest an increase of 2.6 billion kn, therefore, from 265 million originally to 2 billion 865 million kn, and you know very well that the only reason for this increase and the proposals is to increase the protesting guarantees for the group Uljanik. Something I believe that many of you have already read, that is, looked at the report that the government made within one conclusion several weeks ago, where in a very clear, transparent, brief and transparent way, actually presented a complete report on the state of active guarantees. Active guarantees at this point are up to 4.3 billion kn. Some of them have already been protested, as certain loans, financial or probabilities are actually already in place, and some of them have been protested for the reason that there has been significant cancellation of certain ships. State guarantees, so-called State guarantees, have been activated in time for the construction of these ships. A fact or advance, for advance payments, which in the end has not been realized, and these ships will not be built, built and based on it, we, according to our projections at the Ministry of Finance and Government, and based on all the information we have, predict that by the end of the year this will be, I would unfortunately have to say, and a minimum amount. In any case, these 2.6 billion kunas are something we now propose in terms of changes and additions to the state budget by the end of the year. One part will also be the subject of our debate when we discuss the proposal for a budget for 2019 in about 7 to 10 days, and you will see that one part of these protested guarantees will, in all likelihood, have to be paid during 2019. However, this is an integral part of the budget rebalance, i.e. the change and addition of the state budget. When we look at the overall result, the overall result of the state budget, when we compare this new plan, the rebalance, relative to the original plan, is better for about a billion and 800 million kuna. Therefore, a lower deficit compared to the one originally planned at the level of the state budget. We can also say for extra budget users that they have a better result than the original plan for about a billion and 200 million kuna. Local self-government since it is neither the subject of today's debate, and it generally has its own, we can say so, and the authority at the level of local congregations that vote and bring our budgets to the same level. And when we add all together within the meaning of the ESA in 2010, we can conclude that despite the expected expenditure on the protested guarantees that are led as a capital transfer according to the European methodology and are an integral part of the total result of the budget. Despite this, the figures that I have just said about the Group Oil Group, the total result level for 2018 remains at the level of the same original plan, which is 0.5% of GDP deficit or 2 billion 23 million kuna. I'm just giving you an illustration, so if we didn't have this last element that I was just talking about and if we had the same situation as 2017 to figure out income or expenditure, we would be able to figure out, at this point without any doubt, that in 2018, the general government budget or that it would end up with a surplus or surplus. Given these circumstances, I will repeat once again because of the group's Oilies, it is impossible to say this at this time and above all we still have about a month and a half until the end of the budget and at this point I can't even talk to you about 100% security, because it's not in the management of either the Ministry of Finance, nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but in the management of Independent Statistical Offices, whether we're talking about domestic, State Statistics, CNB and Eurostat, how and how it will treat the overall guarantees or protested guarantees. In any case, unrelated and related, I will repeat once again, we are not deviating from our original plan despite the total amount that we are now forecasting in the budget of 2.6 billion kuna from the original plan, so we do not deviate from the plan that this year, for the third year in a row, the share of public debt in GDP and according to our latest calculations, this figure for the end of this year, would be 74.6%. This morning we talked about budget implementation, or budget implementation report 2017, so from 77.5 to 74.6, so third year in a row 3 percentage points of gross domestic product reduction of the share of public debt in GDP. Finally, the final part is, the final point or third point of this united debate is closely linked to the rebalancing itself, and this is the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the implementation of the State budget for 2018. In accordance with all the figures referred to, of course, these total figures, as provided for by the Budget Act, are converted into this amount. Therefore, debt on the foreign and domestic market can be implemented up to a total amount of HRK 24.7 billion, the current repayments of the general government debt of 17.1 billion. As for out-of- budget users, $3.7 billion, current payments of $ 4.3 billion. The amount of the budget stock is reduced by the end of the year. So, we generally plan in the draft budget 200 million kuna, given the implementation of the budget so far, according to the rebalancing process, it is at 80 million kuna, and this, among other things, is being determined by this law on enforcement as already mentioned guarantee reserves. I'm going to mention again from 265 to 2 billion 865 million kuna. It also reduces the annual value of new financial guarantees to 3.5 billion kuna, of which 1.1 billion relate to extra-financial users. The Law also lays down the allocation of funds to counties from the state budget for the settlement of the obligations of hospital health institutions owned by the County amounting to 61.1 million kuna. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105314	I thank the Honorable Minister. My colleagues, did you answer for the replica or what? Here you go. Dear colleague Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105315	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. 2.7 billion kuna is less withdrawn from EU funds. I warn of bad and not good use of EU funds. I'd also like to take a break on behalf of the Bridge Club so I can meet my colleagues. So this is the first time we've had, so through the budget visible what's going to happen to us. In 2007, 2013 we did not make good use of the funds. If we look at only the Operational Programme Transport, you will see that of the EUR 236 million available, we only agreed on EUR 196 million, so we failed to negotiate what was available to us. If we take further adjustments and irregularities that we will have during this period, we will certainly have even less resources. 2.7 billion kuna is extremely worrying that in this budget we have not used, because we can postpone all of this for the year. However, due to the rules M + 3 and if and if there are financial corrections in 2017, 2018, as I recall that a statement of expenditure was sent only one in 6 months 2017, other statements on expenditure have not been sent. This way of not sending a statement of expenditure directly affects liquidity and we will be forced to use the EIB loan instead of sending expenditure statements in due time and thus contributing to liquidity in terms of attracting and using EU funds. Also numerous, we have a situation to say the Ministry of Environmental Protection at least withdrew funds, or did not use 719 million kuna. It's all worrying because there's big infrastructure projects out there. Please grant me a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105316	I thank my colleague Chikotic. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105317	Well, I would like to say that I would like to request a break because Minister Maric said during the debate that he does not know how the Statistics Institute will register the guarantees for the shipyards. So maybe 10 minutes would allow him to send a request to the Statistics Bureau and ask them how he could give us the exact information here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105318	Dear colleague Pernar, do not abuse the time of the Rules of Procedure. Stanke is wanted for club consultations and not for proposals. They know very well whether to consult or not before they come to the Croatian Parliament, so I ask you not to use or abuse your notice for a break in the future because it is not quite appropriate. Anyone else? No, I don't. I'm setting a break until 1:00 and 40 minutes. It's 1:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 13:43 A.M.]] We're moving on to replicas. The first came from a respected colleague named Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Minister, in your opening statement, you spoke about a number of macroeconomic indicators in 2018, and you mentioned, among other things, GDP growth. Indeed, in the second quarter of 2018, compared to the second quarter of 2017, the Republic of Croatia has a 2.8% GDP growth, just as much as you said. However, at the same time, Slovenia has 4.3%, Poland 5%, Romania 4.2%, Latvia 4.4%, Slovakia 3.9%. These are countries with a comparable economy like Croatia, but their growth is far greater, so I ask you a simple question: can you as finance minister be satisfied with this 2.8% growth and do not take it out for the past period, yet you are minister for almost 3 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105321	I thank my fellow coat of arms. Minister Maric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105322	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. I never, in my answers to you in the Croatian Parliament or in the public, take out any past periods, and now I'm just about to do a budget for 2017, and the appeal on your part to raise wages, all the while refraining from repeating what you did in your time, in terms of public and civil servants' salaries, so I won't do it this time. I've said it publicly several times, and I'm going to repeat it to you, the honourable representative on the matter. So, the economic growth that Croatia has and which we put in the draft budget, either the rebalance, or the overall budget, is based on real foundations. They are today the ones who are, therefore, economic growth from something below 3%. If I had all of us together, and so mainly in the government, you asked me personally, I can say for myself, I would certainly want, and I want to believe that Croatia can achieve even more economic growth rates, but I repeat once again, at this point this is reality. You've listed some countries that have more economic growth rates than we do, and you know there are a number of countries that have lower rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105323	I thank Minister Maric for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Sonja Cikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105324	Dear Minister, you know for a fact that I am an expert in favour of the EU funds moving to the Ministry of Finance. I am interested in, in 6 months 2016, raising the EIB's 90 million-euro loan at 1.5% interest, to date having only one statement on expenditure, which is directed towards the European Commission, is from 6 months 2017, how do you view finance as a minister for the inadequate liquidity of EU funds use, will this reflect on the budget of the Republic of Croatia, and how does the same, or lack of 1.7 billion investment in society, affect the budget or economic growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105325	Thank you, Minister Maric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105326	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Just before we had the same question about the European funds, I think from Agent Anka Mrak-Taritash, so I said that from the perspective of the overall budget, if there is a sub-implementation of European funds, then there is one thing that we can say'so, calm us down, which is that European funds are neutral. On the other hand, it is not necessary to ignore exactly this fact that you have said, and that is the same question as the liquidity effect, is it, in general, that we are talking about pre-financing in European funds, so ultimately we are taking a commitment to ourselves for funds, which we will only later receive from European funds. Now that these rates of bargaining and withdrawal are growing, then of course that, let's call it that, such a problem becomes even more significant. It's a very good thing that we have the support, not to say support, the support of international financial institutions, mainly the EIB, which through our HBOR Development Bank, stands at the disposal of a number of its credit lines precisely in the area of this national component, but generally the elements of pre-financing, in the sense that this liquidity shock, as much as we succeed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105327	Thank you. I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105328	Dear Minister Maric, the State Audit Report says this year's budget deficit will be a billion and a half kuna higher than last year, I quote: "The deficit of the state budget or the lack of revenue planned in terms of 6.8 billion kuna compared to 2016, when planned in the amount of 5.3 billion kuna. The deficit of the state budget is planned to increase by a billion and 468 million kuna." So the state audit says the budget gap will be 6.8 billion kuna this year. So much for the surplus or surplus you've been telling us about for months. So I'm asking you how many budget holes are finally going to be by the end of this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105329	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105330	Dear Representative, very clearly, and very transparently, therefore, first and foremost, unfortunately here are no more colleagues from the State Audit Office, as far as I know they do not give their projections, they give a report for the previous year, the last report they submitted for 2017. As for our projections in this report, you have very transparent, so I said in my part of the exposure, you're in the call for a break, and you paraphrased me, not quoting, but paraphrasing, because I said I couldn't with 100% certainty at this point, I know, or we can assume the basis of all the data we have, as much as we'll have to pay by the end of the year. And I said, two billion 600, so I already said three times. And as far as it's going to be calculated, so the total amount of guarantees, I don't have enough time, but in the context of the debate, if there's any need, I'll explain once again, from active guarantees, how much we get protested and how much we finally get to the effect. The most important information, as the worst possible scenario, is for you to be rebalanced, and that, we can call it a "hit case" or the worst scenario, leads to a 0.5% deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105331	I thank Minister Maric for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105332	Ministers, you are talking about increasing subsidies in agriculture, increasing GDP, but the fact is that compared to 2017, when food, food products, billions and $490 million were imported this year, in real sailing compared to 2017, 300 million dollars and 2 billion kunas of more food products were imported. And that fruit and vegetables, pork, meat of dairy products bread, we make grain, we feed more and more, and we import more and more. So what are these increases? What's the increase? Imports? We boast the increase in tourists, and we increase exports instead of our food, planning our domestic market, on our market along the coast of tourism, we increase imports. We only increased imports by a huge amount. And that's the key problem. So, our imports are growing, food products, if you're boasting about the subsidies in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105333	I thank my colleague Bulj, Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105334	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, in this part of my exposure, I actually apostrophe that most of those subsidies apply to agriculture, and then when you look at almost 4 billion a year, outside of this part of rural development, again the largest part of the funding from European funds, that is, they grow every year. And it's a good element, not some boast, as you say, but simply finding out the facts that they are. As for this import or general food balance, a few days ago we also had a debate about tax laws. He thinks that you recognize and believe that you want to recognize when there's a vote, that just in the tax changes, we're giving one of these proposed changes, among other things, an additional contribution to domestic agricultural production, which should ultimately be the result of, and repairing this balance that you're talking about, that some of the categories that you mentioned both fruit and this and that, we actually reduce or fully alumniate that kind of lack in terms of trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105335	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you mentioned, therefore, that an additional €405 million is going to the health care system, enough to mention that the budget for 2018 of the clinical hospital centre Zagreb is more than €2 billion, so let's see what categories we're talking about. The Department of Health every month. It organises meetings with the directors of a health institution, but unfortunately, the debt is constantly generated in health institutions, I'm interested in whether you as the Ministry of Finance may have considered some kind of crackdown, in a way that reduces this generation of health institutions, because the situation is in some way worrying and will always need to allocate additional funds for new debts, not just for the sake of medicines, not just for the sake of investment in health infrastructure, but obviously for some other reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105337	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105338	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your comment and your question. As far as the health system is concerned, here I think we haven't had a number of times, and our debate, whether we're talking about the budget, whether we're talking about tax laws, it's a good part of being focused on the health system, and also as Minister of Finance, of course, I'm not, so to speak, protected from similar issues. So, both Minister Kujundzic and my smallness and all of us in the government worry among other things and try to make this health system fiscally sustainable. However, in the last year's and this year's reports, you mention 400 million more money in terms of rebalancing, last year that amount was where, larger, billions and a half, but also now and now, and also those tax changes that we propose, I always find, can't solve all the problems the revenue side of the budget can't solve. Because today, at this point, you know when last year we had an intervention, obligations fell below 7 billion kn, but already in the first nine months. these years they are growing again by some extra 700 million kn. So it's obvious there has to be a combination of the income and the cost side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105339	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105340	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, today's debate reminded me of a folk questionnaire, I'm going to overturn it, run, run, run, run, run, run, run, run, run, run, beg God's runner to catch a scrape. The answer was Minister and Budget. And in fact you've succeeded in this part, you've caught the expenditure, with the increase in income, it has to be congratulated, but we're back to where the space is, we've got huge expenditures, we've now increased, but those revenues, but these revenues are again tax burden on citizens and entrepreneurship. What can stimulate economic growth? What it says here, and when we talk about 2018, the original 6 months. EU funding has been reduced again. Call the ministers, call the local self-government representatives, ask what they're missing, what they're missing, where the projects are, where there's something to raise, because that's the only way, to withdraw the funds, to encourage production, because for this kind of expenditure, the revenues you're trying to increase from won't be enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105341	I thank Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105342	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Last week I could easily replicate your replica about the charm, but this is what I don't think I can do again what you said, so then I'm just going to refer to this second part. So, as with the previous replica, in execution, therefore, public finances are and must be in function of economic growth. Whether public finances, whether the budget itself needs to be continued directly by economic growth, is one quite questionable. So we have, on the one hand, a tax policy, which we certainly should, on the other hand, have a cost-effective side, which is here, and now that we look at today through these replicas, through the debate, we have proposals, let's increase what we list, on the other hand, you have a question or the question is why, so the basic direction of public finances as we see them, public finances that are stable, which are long-term sustainability and which are not an obstacle, that is, are in function economic growth, and everything on the cost side is in line with the opportunities and priorities that are defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105343	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105344	Thank you, well-respected Minister Maric, so you often talk about dispensing citizens, about a cheaper state, about growth, but you yourself have stated that administrative costs, this year are up 18%. So I'm curious, if there's been a discharge as you say, how did these costs suddenly rise, is that growth too high in your opinion, and if, in what way are you going to reduce them in the next period? The state is also more efficient, but we see that the number of civil servants from year to year is increasing more and more, that we have 4,000 new employees, that these costs for their salaries are growing, on the other hand the wages are not increasing or increasing minimally, so this seems to me in part in contradiction with what you've brought out here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105345	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105346	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You listened very carefully to the opening, so you noticed, it's good to talk about it the same way, so, most of it applies, mostly to certain taxes that are related to the health system, which, in turn, finance certain things like medicines, sanitary materials and the like. So that would be the category of so-called. own dedicated revenues which have a specific purpose in that system in which they are. But when we look at, of course, the overall picture, the tax laws, what we've discussed most so far, we all together, including myself here in the assembly, is about tax discharge. Nobody twos, we keep pointing out all together, and the government makes it a step forward to go along with tax and non-taxation, but also administrative discharge. So, in all these segments, to get the effect you need, is not a small number of times, it's not just that people are plagued by the financial effect, it's just administration. So in this part, I'm sure a number of budget users will find room for additional discharge, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105347	I thank the Minister for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105348	Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Maric, we know one thing, the expenditures you have projected or compared to the revenues you have projected, incomes are unrealistic, you rely too much on transfers from the EU, and we need 3% of GDP growth just to be able to pay interest on government debt and you know it well. In the presentation, you said you saved about a billion kuna if I heard it on those interest rates, and I've been warning you for three years and now that interest amounts to 10 billion kuna a year. I suggest you cut them to 5 billion for the third year, you know that you can, you didn't do it. 10 billion of us can't, our economy only works for interest, we don't have development, we don't have development, we don't have development, we work for interest, there's no growth and development, we're a captured economy, we're a debt economy, and we can't move forward like this, it's living truth. In short, cut the interest expenditures by 5 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105349	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105350	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I certainly don't have to explain to you, as well as to my university professor, this one, to speak, but this first part that you said, you know that the RH finally entered the sphere or that area when that so-called area. The snowball effect is no longer negative, but we're in a positive part. So we have a primary surplus, so we're talking today about a total surplus last year of 3.2 billion kuna when you actually add or exclude interest costs, you have a primary surplus of over 11 billion kuna and 12 almost, which means we have a significant contribution right in that part of the consolidation and reduction of the share of public debt from that part of public finances management. The interest is, of course, a separate topic, this part that you're alluding is not only in the field of fiscal policy, but it goes a little bit wider. The fiscal policy has made its contribution through the repair of the credit rating, through restructuring, different types of maturity debt, and which are not in a position to reduce interest costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105351	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Grcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105352	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you've begun well to elaborate this important section on guarantees, guaranteed reserves. You explained what advance guarantees are, these are primarily building guarantees, unlike credit or financial guarantees. And since it was implicated here in some other debates that most of these guarantees were actually issued by those who were in government between 2012 and 2015. I would like to repeat once again that a total of EUR 480 million and only EUR 50 million of financial guarantees were issued during that period of 4 years. In the next 3 years, the HDZ Government has 111 million censures and 220 million credit guarantees. Just for the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105353	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105354	Thank you, Your Honor, well, and that you have opened this topic and to clarify, not only to colleagues in the assembly, but also to the public. So that's what we talked about a few times. Surely, the difference between what we call legal guarantees or advance guarantees and financial guarantees should be made. In some ideal conditions, the State shall issue an advance guarantee in a specific case for the construction of a ship. The ship's orderer pays certain advance payments for which the state guarantees, the ship is delivered, after which the guarantee is cancelled, there is no cost, there is no effect on state finances. I repeat, in ideal conditions. And we are in everything today, just not ideal conditions because the fact is that the good part of these advance guarantees, even during the period you're talking about, actually, when most of it was issued, was actually invited to pay, which means that the money was withdrawn from the order, and the ships were never even started, let alone being built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105355	I thank Minister Maric for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Sunny Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105356	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Vice President. Mr. Minister's teaching on this, therefore, Uljannik first received guarantees in 2013 at the government of the Republic of Croatia's telephone session. In September 2015, guarantees of EUR 210 million shall be issued at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. All this time during the three-year period, the government of Zoran Milanovic, or SDP, says it is a great project and that the shipbuilding will be sustainable. It's facts, it's all written, and it's all recorded at government meetings. So neither did HDZ's government put in its programme to have a problem with the oil company, but it solved it. It would not have been possible to resolve it if it had not been for surpluses in the state budget, i.e. surplus revenues. Likewise, perhaps less important but important to some people at the position of the Ministry of Culture with a rebalancing of 3 million kunas. You know why? Because writers, almost the entire mandate of the SDP, were not paid a copyright fee for public spending.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105357	I thank my esteemed colleague. Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105358	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, well expected, cannot pass the debate on budget rebalancing without in any way treating the Oil Group because I will repeat it once again, so these figures, not only the question of the protested guarantees, they also happened in the past according to certain segments at the annual level. We also have those 265 million kunas planned in the budget each year for such needs. But here we're talking about at least 10 times the amount of this right now that I've mentioned. And surely we need to carefully and carefully analyse all the reasons and all the causes in some way, and we are unfortunately dealing with the consequences today because we finally have to pay for it. I have said it several times, and I have proposed support from the Prime Minister and I have had all over the government because this is how if we delay paying by protesting guarantees in some way we disabling both the instrument and the state guarantee institute itself. The Institute of State Guarantee must exist and have a certain value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105359	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105360	Thank you very much. To get... to your discussion and to the reply to the replica, so here today you need to clearly repeat one thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's got bail guarantees. It's very interesting if those ship-orders were paying for something. If they paid where did your money end up? The second thing, we are constantly talking about the guarantees taken over by the state, etc., but the restructuring programme adopted also annually was scheduled for 4 years not to amount to 500, 600 million in any year to help restructure Croatia's shipbuilding. Among other things, the SDP government made a decision two days before joining the EU to merge 3. Maya and Oil. The second thing is, the law says that whoever gets the money from the budget has to file a report at the end of the year on what he spent that money on. So if it's 3. May got 500 million from the state budget, if those money ended up in Ulanik, someone had to see it and had to react there in 2015. And today you're making the most noise.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105361	Thank you, Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105362	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I can only refer to a question from previous MPs as well as to what I have answered to the end. I mean, this is expensive for all of us, unfortunately, it's obvious, quite a lesson, first of all, because in this way they're all going to be carrying this kind of burden together that I repeat once more not small, very often we here in the House and we at the Government and in the public when we talk about billions, billions are in some way many citizens and many people, so I'm going to say for myself an abstract term, no one has ever seen them in material form, of course. However, it is necessary to bring them closer, when we talk about the total guarantees issued and what they will pay... For years, everything we talked about last week, on Friday, when there was a debate, on Thursday, I'm sorry, when there was a debate on tax laws and all that discharge that's going to take effect next year, that's the equivalent of what we're going to pay for by the end of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105363	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105364	Thank you. Dear Ministers, on several occasions today in your presentations you mentioned an allowance for assistance and care and personal disability, i.e. an increase in funds for these two fees. And I have to tell you that you've caused quite a public reaction among people with disabilities who have been around since the morning since this debate began. I want to tell you what they asked me to do, and that is one great thank you to you personally and then, of course, Minister Nadia Murganić that you would not believe after 20 years, but after 20 years, you increased by 20%, some of them may not seem much but there are many of these two fees. It remains with the personal disabled to arrange for future release from censorship, but it is in accordance with the law that is yet to be drawn up. But here's to this, I thank you very much and you've brought back to the disabled in some way one hope of something they haven't believed in so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105365	Thank you, fellow Lukacic. Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105366	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, thank you very much, very much, for your comment and for this part, which I have introduced and for the presentation on the implementation of the budget in 2017, and for the 2018 Rebalance apostrophe and, among other things, a part of the debate that we have so far during the debate, because not a small number of times we have heard the comments why for this or that purpose do not increase certain means of separation. And as a rule, I answer that, of course, we recognize that problem, but in accordance with some possibilities of our own. Likewise, persons with disabilities and all their needs and in the budget of last year and this and in the next budgets are recognized, I repeat again, on the trail of what I keep saying in line with some fiscal possibilities and again try to design and design measures. You also mentioned a colleague, Murganic, who did it with her ministry and, along with the entire government, that they really aim where they should aim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105367	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Yeah, well, here's the lead and the previous question, colleague Lukacic, I'm going to ask a similar question from a similar area but a little bit with a different sign. It is clear to you, therefore, that the budget is what needs to be developed, and therefore what needs to be in the service of economic growth it must be socially sensitive. However, by respecting all this you have done, everything that has been done and given the increase in your personal disability, everything that has been done in view of the increase in aid and care, I must say, and that is somehow related to my amendment, which has not been adopted, and as regards the guaranteed minimum fee, which has remained at the same level, and we have warned that it must be increased. This means that the budget did not go towards poverty mitigation. Because just the poorest of our citizens, he left them deprived and even in deeper poverty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105369	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105370	Thank you, well-respected MPs, both for asking and for commenting. Well, here, as before from the representative Lukačić, therefore, of course, always desire, will, intention to strengthen and allocate funds for certain purposes, and I would say in this context, we can mainly say about the most vulnerable groups, our fellow citizens and the population are absolutely unquestionable. When you mention and single out one element, guaranteed minimum fees, when you look at the total amount, it's not just about the individual amount, it's about the mass that's being paid. It's a good thing we have a smaller number of people who are users of such a kind of fee, which means that yet certain measures are reflected on them from other segments, not this directly. However, in any case I can say, therefore, on both this purpose and any other purposes concerning, I repeat the most endangered layers and groups of our citizens, we must always find ways, to adequately monitor and financially.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105371	I thank the Minister for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I am opening a debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Bozo Petrov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105372	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. If it wasn't for something this serious, it would be almost fun to watch this P.R. A show of government trying to prove serious and responsible, according to P.R. textbook, graciously accepting, with a lot of professional concepts and... And then in the end, the average viewer says, I didn't understand anything, and it all works fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would suggest one thing, Minister, as you say, I would count on it in a simple way, as citizens could understand it much, much easier than 30 minutes of your exposure, if that's okay with you? So it's very simple then, when it all comes together and takes away and draws the line, we spend more than we earn, and that's where it starts, the story ends. Here, if you think that's sustainable, I'm asking the citizens to start spending more on their family budget than they're making, so let them see, as long as it takes them. And those debts, which need you to be responsible for, because otherwise you will be completed and blocked, but these debts will not be paid back by this government, but will again be paid back by Croatian taxpayers. Now that's a difference, Your Honors Minister, unfortunately, you're here in front of the government, that's the difference between government and citizens. Citizens have to be responsible, you don't have to be responsible. When the payments come, someone else will obviously solve the problem. Because the ministries meet the demands and their demands, as they come to mind, and the ministers, frankly, you look more like an octopus, who's trying to plug all those holes around the ship that are opening up, and I know that for the cameras, they're always going to be smiling because of the P.R. I understand that. You'll mention P.R. You mentioned how you made more money compared to the last year, how you spend less than the original plan, but draw the line and compare it to the last year, so it will eventually come out, that your income that you allegedly increased, is not enough, to cover the expenditures that you increased and spend more than you spent last year, and that's a fact, that's what absolutely everyone in Croatia can understand, we spend more than we make, and that's not responsible. And then to remind the whole story of the government, credible, responsible, serious, stable, these are your adjectives. This is what you boast, so I can only say, when you look at the changes, which bring us changes and complement the state budget for 2018 cannot be hidden, a picture of a lost, unhomogenous government, which literally wanders through the soundness of irresponsible and unsustainable government. The net effect I'm talking about is minus 0.1%, but it seems small. It seems small. But the way you explain it, we did it, you know how we did it. So you mention the surplus in one part of the year, in the other, the more it's lost, it doesn't matter, it's important P.R. to mention that something had happened in one part of the year. And then it actually looks like this, you're going to brag about the statistics of one man, who was employed for the first half of the year, the second half of the year unemployed. But you won't mention that unemployment, you'll mention an extremely positive balance, the first half of the year he was employed, because it's in your favor. It doesn't matter, because it's P.R. It's not good. It's not good to draw a line and be transparent and honest in front of people and say, we spend more. It's not my fault. Maybe it's the Prime Minister's fault. Maybe it's another minister's fault. It's not me, but we're wasting it. You spend more, and if you can say anything, you can say it's not responsible for managing state finances. Like it or not, but that's right. Let's move forward, the central state budget seems to you, so the state without a unit of local and regional self-government, outside budget users without units of local and regional self-government, outside of budget users will swallow 41% of newly created values in the Republic of Croatia. So, from 365 days of creating a new value, everything that citizens create, the state budget takes 149 days into its wing. Everything, your work and all the effort in the Republic of Croatia. Well, of course we'll expect if you're already taking so much from us that you act responsiblely. Unfortunately, we see neither rationality nor purpose in the decisions of the budget, nor in the context of available revenues, in order to prioritise expenditure that would contribute to the general development of the state. That's how you talk, only you instead of not, say yes. And yet I'm going to draw a line for you. You spend more than you earn, and your debts, unfortunately, will not be paid back by you, but by all of us later because you will not be there. And that's how it is. And a little detail that suggests that there is no further government strategy for financial management of the country because in a document like this, a budget rebalance at a distance of just a few pages, you have contradictory findings. When you try to explain the reason for lower GDP growth than planned, it is said that this tourist season has not been very good. On the other hand, when it tries to explain how higher incomes will be achieved than VAT, it is said of never a better tourist season. Well, I mean, isn't it funny, I mean, this is one of your most serious documents, so you can play like that. The worst result of the budget rebalance is that you withdrew 2.7 billion kuna from the EU funds. No less than what the EU expected from you, not than what the citizens expected from you, compared to what you said you would do, you said, we will withdraw so much and so much, at the end of the year you withdrew 2.7 billion less than you promised, no one forced you to. All right. Minister Zhalac says it's because technically they're not ready for more. So what do those thousands of new employees do to you? You've come out with the number that you've hired 2700 new people. So what do they do to you? You say you'll pull more, pull less, no one's forced you. You employ thousands of new people, including with that justification, and then Minister Zhalac says, and we are not technically operationally prepared. Then you have to decide on one thing or you're incompetent, so you don't know who you're receiving or you realize you're receiving party incompetent arrests that can't do the job. Either it's one thing, or it's another, because it's impossible, here's one time, the second time you can be forgiven for making a mistake in your budgets and foresight that something will look later, so here's the thing, you've made the wrong decision. Well, my people, you've been doing it for 20 years. 20 and a few years each time for elections you promise something, every time you tear it down and always use your pear crisis management, which will explain that it is always in someone else's fault, and not in you, and then you accuse others of the populists, so you are the populists of all the populists, and the larger Croatian people in their history have not seen. Have someone run an analysis of everything you promised and not 20 years ago. Just take it for the final election. How much did you say? 180,000 new jobs... was a little bit bigger. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll take that away from you. Screaming headlines from all the headlines, yes, now there are 180 000 x 2 out of the Republic, so you hire people. I apologize, you were thinking of hiring probably in Germany, Austria and Ireland, you weren't thinking of hiring in the Republic of Croatia. In this rebalancing we can see the growth of detachment for employees, the growth of material expenditures, the growth of subsidies, the trade unions protest for small wage growth, you have to finally tell people, people can't give you higher wages, we have to allocate 200 million kunas for those of our party arrests. That's how much it costs the 2700 new ones you've hired, on an annual basis. Be honest, so sit with them at the table, and tell them why you can't raise people's wages, and at least those who really work in the state and public administration, there are some of them, you need to be fair to them. The government put everything in one field with this budget rebalance, VAT. The incomes of this tax and now there's an interesting story, growing by just over one and a half billion kuna, so from 49.6 to 51.1 billion. Compared to 2017, an increase of 3.9 billion kuna or 7.4% is recorded. It is even more interesting to see the second half of the year, where, if these forecasts are realized, 9.4% would rise compared to the same period last year. So with all these contradictions in mind, a picture of the country's general economic situation, I must say that I have doubts about such a prediction, respecting all the arguments of great consumption during December because of Christmas holidays. But we should keep in mind that the forecasts for growth of total personal consumption are 3.5% at year level, and I will remind you once again that the forecast for GDP growth is 2.7%. How the VAT revenue from more than 9% will be realised in these frameworks compared to last year, it is inexplicable to me. Al, I hope that explains it, like all these dilemmas before. And if that doesn't come true, as all the promises of the ruling so far haven't come true, all your budget mathematics is falling into your water, there are no areas where it can be compensated, but I'm not worried about you, but you're going to explain by your pear crisis management again that someone else was guilty. While we are the leading EU state with a GDP VAT share of 14%, one Ireland growing at an annual rate two and a half times faster in the Republic of Croatia is at 5%, smart enough. The element most affected by the lack of a general consolidated state in 2018, according to the finance minister, are the givings caused by the guarantees of the Oil Group and the investments in Petrokemija. And I'm really glad that I heard our fellow counsel comment on that particular case. So, $3.1 billion was spent on systems that we don't even know how they did business today, which they spent huge resources on and on. So I would really ask Mr. Shucker not to mention 2015 because if the government takes him seriously and really investigates him, which I doubt, because you never did, but if they do, then all of that in 2004 will be revealed. You know that one, hand me. That's why I don't expect HDZ to bang on SDP or SDP to bang on HDZ. Almost covered, the government will therefore pay minimum salaries or social assistance, waiting for a deaf period when the E-orbi exercises will be able to announce to the world that the Uljanik has failed the case. That's what it's going to look like in the end with these 3.1 billion kunas you've given. And are we going to learn something from these examples, or are we going to continue to accept these unfavorable arguments, while 300 and a few thousand people have left the Republic of Croatia. I hope that in those who are left, they will work one other thing out. I'm just going to tell you for the last time, this kind of rebalancing that you're offering, this kind of budget rebalance doesn't create a prerequisite for any reform steps, don't let it hurt you, that it's hard for you to listen when I say that your Prime Minister announced for 2018 this is a reform year, reform year. Here I give you 10, as Mr. Pernar said, 10, I give you 60 minutes to explain to me what you've been reforming in a year. But that's him, and that's your president, that's your decision, that's your responsibility. Al, this budget rebalance doesn't offer you to do absolutely anything in that direction. It does not give hope to people that their work, pawnage, your work and pawnage will make the Republic of Croatia a better quality country, that we will be able to expect progress. We remain trapped in old patterns, in old times, and while the rest of the countries are taking enormous steps forward, our ruling furniture is doing absolutely nothing to catch up. We are at the beginning today, last on all the scales that are economically important to the EU. You mocked the SDP in 2015 and said that you would raise the Republic of Croatia from the 40th, where, in the 30th, today we fell 58th to 17th, 18th place, but that's good now, you're in power, that's good, that's your crisis pyr management. Well, I still haven't figured out how 40th place is better than 58th place, I haven't figured that out. But you know what the fact is, your famous stability that you've been talking about. E during that instability when you appeared Bridge, then the Republic of Croatia on the doing business scale grew by 20.30 places. I just want to say one thing, Mr. Boric, for the sake of your stability as famous as you promote, the Republic of Croatia is failing because you're stable enough to capture whoever you want and wherever you want, it's true today about the Republic of Croatia and how you lead it. And I don't see, for the end, I don't see any way in which this kind of rebalancing will offer a solution and pave the way for a long-term economic sustainable growth, I don't see. I don't see any effort you're making right now. This is how it looks like you're trying to keep the ship on the surface, while the dru, dru, whatever it takes, we'll just do that, but soon the mice will start running from the ship, soon the finance minister, regardless of the number of tentacles, won't be able to shut the hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105373	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrov. We are going to the next debate, on behalf of the SDP representative club, respected colleague Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, where the minister is, is gone, with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We've heard a lot today, with one good part of this debate of colleagues, uh, Petrova would agree, of course, with certain things or facts, you wouldn't, because they're simply guilty. Especially that equidistance on the left, the right side, so I'm in the middle, so I'm going to be just as far away from each other, of course I don't like it. I'm also not going to be telling information here that I'm not sure about and that's not publicly available to citizens, so we'll agree on that right away. It would be said in that old saying it's easy to be good, and in some pain, when the pain comes, heroes know each other, right? So part of the debate here today we've been listening to how the wages at the time the SDP was government, as possible, so you see how you, uh, are mean to our citizens, etc., forgetting, therefore, the time we've been working and a little bit back in history, which we've found, I've already talked about. Of course it's a whole different situation now. When the economy grows, there is more money in the budget and it is much more comfortable and easier to run the state and government. And yet, therefore, this government also has serious problems, despite that they also see each day and I would say they see each other more and more. In this proposal for rebalance in the introduction, it says that the government corrected the growth rate from 2.9% to 2.7%, which is also one serious indicator for our immediate future that things don't go the way we would all in the Republic of Croatia want them to. There are, of course, two key items being corrected, I would say in the structure of GDP where it is said that investments will be less than planned and that exports will be less than planned. And again we came to the stage that imports are significantly higher than exports and that the only happiness in all of that is tourism which as much as grows and improves this situation in the RS balance of payments. But we have problems here too, so this season, regardless of growth, shows that tourism slows down and that competition in the Mediterranean area that we are directly competitive with, in fact, stronger, especially Turkey, returns Turkey, returns to the market, returns to some countries in the southern Mediterranean. This should certainly be taken into account when considering the future of the economy and the total Republic of Croatia, as should be taken into account that in this year in 7 of the 9 measured months, industrial production is falling. And now we're going back to that shipbuilding issue. Here, just as an example, means, Oil crisis, Petrochemy crisis, industrial production in the Republic of Croatia falls, exports fall. Because of one single item and one single sector, or rather, the branch industry, the industry is falling. It actually says how sensitive our entire system is to such crises. What should also be noted, tourism is, well, dominant, because others are relatively weak, other sectors are relatively weak, so tourism is the dominant activity in the Republic of Croatia, but the government is not, I must say, in the last two years, valorising in the right way because simply every year a certain burden on tourism is raised, so the VAT on tourism and hospitality is first increased from 13% to 25%, and then an increased residence fee for the boaters and five, six times. So in some segments it's now bigger than it was. So then the increased residence tax, not so terrible, acceptable, about 25%, from 15% to 25%, is, I don't know, from 7 to 8,00 kn, so it's not something that could significantly harm tourism, but here, now we have the most recent measure where new tax laws go to five times the limit of taxing a single bed in private accommodation, so among 100,000 private renters in the Republic. This will certainly not come up with the approval of people, nor will it contribute to supplementing the lack of accommodation during some moments of the season with this private accommodation. So I am for fighting for the quality of that accommodation. So there are some other methods, some of them we voted on both the Committee on Tourism and in this House, it's some new categorization or recategorization of existing objects to show what's wrong there, what needs to be fixed, where it needs to be invested, but not to use the simplest measure, hit tax, so they'll drop out, and these will stay better. And generally, in some parts of the season, in the peak, there are simply no beds, still in the Republic of Croatia, especially in that Adriatic part. Furthermore, I will not repeat and elaborate now, only to correct my colleague Petrova, so at the time of Milanovic's government, the SDP government, the Republic of Croatia has risen from 86 places to 40th. So, not at a time when fellow Petrov was participating in power, but before that, in the 40th place. When he was participating, then the Republic of Croatia fell to 43rd and now in two years it fell to 58th place, those are facts. I'm not going to tell you now how we did it the way we fought for this better status on that scale, it was a very specific, detailed work of our people who are in the system today, and I call on the government to reorganize them, to put them in a group for Doing Business and to work all day long within their work and jobs interdisciplinaryly, to advance, to advance the business environment and that means legal and sublegal and other acts that have resulted in us really getting up on that scale. People went to Washington, negotiated directly with the World Bank and discussed what to do in Croatia in terms of legal and sublegal acts, regulations and enforcement measures should be done and business environment improved. And then came the new government and the cap, no more. So I'm asking you just to rebuild it. Here is colleague Vrdoljak, who was head of the ministry that practically worked most on it, and today is part of the government. So let her experience, let her reflect on this government as well. And that's what we need here. I can understand that you've faced some big problems, the type of Agrokor, and the oily one, but you have an administration that needs to be handled and this part of the job taken care of. But, well, I just want to point out, the morning I listen to the news, Germany has a growth rate, so a projection for a growth rate that will be significantly lower than the original one, so when Germany shows some signs of weakness or slowdown, then it threatens the whole of Europe and especially the weak one, I would say to Croatia and our economy, so all of this is actually a serious warning to what is next. And in this context, we are now looking at both the rebalancing and the budget for 2019 but also the projections for 2020 and 2021. Now you see, as far as income is concerned, so I just want to talk here about this big picture of the budget, I don't want to get into any details, items, I think that's crucial. And in that big picture, two or three things matter. On the one hand, the growth of tax revenues is more, more importantly, in billions more than planned. So despite the tax discharge, one, the other, we still have an absolute increase in tax burdens and citizens, so and the company, we're talking about absolute burden. Maybe it's a relatively little thing but absolutely we're collecting a lot, a lot more income than we even planned, or you as part of that government, right? And of course, in this context, the power of the new tax discharge cycle that is too weak for me, so 2.5 billion of which are being talked about here the other day and that will come back on the agenda when we talk about the budget, is not enough. Well, that's clear to everyone, so we didn't just suggest you go with this pay raise measure for everything, and that's to increase the non-taxable part from 3800 to 5 because we think there's money for it. So we're not supposed to raise tax revenues enormously now, but we need to relieve people, we need to raise wages, it's the best way to unload because it ends directly in people's pockets, everything else is insecure. By reducing VAT to some products, it is not certain that people will profit from it, we all agreed with it and even the minister in his presentation expects producers, traders to reduce prices but expectations and the final result, is not the same. It's not the same and there's the problem. So we want people to be directly encouraged, to be paid more, so that they decide on that kuna or that 300 or 350 kuna, how much more should they get with one such measure. Another big thing about this budget is, of course, about EU funds, and I have to join this criticism that comes from my colleague and my colleagues from MOST, so the figure in the rebalancing is going down by 2.7 billion kuna, from 13.6 to 10.9, and I have to warn you of one more thing, it was similar last year in the rebalancing process, and also somewhere by 2 billion, the figure rebalance, and the actual execution at the end of the year, even a few billion were less. In order not to speak too much now, the plan in 2017 was 10.9 billion, the rebalancing was down to 9 billion and the actual execution was only 7.3 billion kuna. That's how it's gonna be this year, people. I know the system. I know the system. It happened to us, too. And we are aware of all the problems in which the Croatian state is currently talking about the absorption of EU funds. So after 5 years of this financial perspective, we used 14%, paid 14% of the funds, so in the next 5 years, that means 2020 plus 3 by rule N+3, so the next 5 years should be used and paid 86% of the total. So in five years, and in the next five, it takes 86%. Is there any need for me to conclude that? Let you and the listeners of the citizens conclude for themselves what it will be, whether it is real and what the result will ultimately be. One more thing, it is related of course to the expenditure side of the budget, here it is already mentioned, so interest on one side, where I can only commend the government in that segment that it has been doing quality refinancing of the dues, I stress, due debt because the only way to refinance the dues, there is a colleague Lovrinović going a little further, it is simply not possible to do this in one year because you can simply refinance just what has come in that year, make a new plan and a new task with lower interest. However, on the other hand, I have to highlight this growth in salary expenditure, for new employees, a figure of 2700 or 3000 people is mentioned here. We're not sure where these people are, what they're doing and what effect these people are expected to have in the public administration system. It is often mentioned that these are people for better use of EU funds, however, the result justifies this, and as much as I remember, 2700, no higher employment was planned for the purpose of using EU funds. It was a much smaller number, therefore, these people are employed, so a good part of them is employed in some other segments, why and in what way, I don't know, you would have to explain it on behalf of the government to our citizens. And that, of course, is where serious money is spent, which on the other hand was supposed to go for the pay correction of those people who are already in the system, we talk about it all the time here and today. And another item on the bulky side, which marks that large picture of this budget, is the increase of the security reserve reserve reserve, for the purposes of covering these guarantees issued for the benefit of the Oilies. Given that there have been other different thesis, it is necessary to look a little bit over and third to you which is my position and my view and with the experience of participating in the previous government and what I see in the last three years when I'm not in the government. First we have to clear up, there was a mention, why the Oily wasn't then restructured when the other shipyards were. Comrade Shuker and everyone else know well that Uljannik was then a private firm, which was a positive business and was not a firm in difficulty and did not need to be involved in restructuring programmes. Please, I mean it can be very easily checked and Googled on the Internet, so you'll see what happened. So the oil company shows up as a government partner, which is why it's answering the call, the public call, wants to buy, take over, take over 3May. Yes, it was at that moment a rescue for 3 May, because he found a partner after several rounds of finding potential partners and began as it went. The guarantees were issued because of the fact that no shipyard in the world can function without someone, and especially the export banks, participating in support of those shipyards and that the state stands there as someone who is guaranteed, who issues guarantees, that the work on the basis of the advances received will indeed be done. This is all very legitimate with the EU, harmonised, so that there was no guarantee issue before 2014 because after the restructuring process of these other shipyards, this system of financial, i.e., guaranteed, better put in place to support those shipyards. And it's not the only shipbuilding site that's been guaranteed in the meantime, that we understand each other. But the oil is the most, because they worked the most. Another piece of information, which you will find very, I would say memorable. In our government's term of office, when the most guarantees were issued in that term, the Oilman delivered, finished and delivered, you know how many new constructions? 86, you won't believe, 86 completed vessels, delivered to the orderers, you can't believe it. True, to be perfectly correct, there was a barge of 2.5 thousand DVT so-called, and there were large ships of 50-60 thousand, there were sailors, etc. etc. There was a ferry, so it was everything. Look at the pages of the Oilies and all the things I'm saying, very easily check and see that's how it is. I counted it, counted 86 new constructions, you won't believe it. In these last three years when the oil slides slowly in the crisis, 7 new constructions have been completed and delivered and many started and never finished and who knows if it will be, I hope it will, because if they don't finish, that's the point yet, if those shipbuildings are finished, only the 900 million-dollar Jar of value if it ends, the cost will not be 4.3 billion, but it will be less than 3.4 billion. Right? You see, it is. Therefore, we need to inform citizens about things the way they really are. And I won't say it again now, I don't have time anymore. So in these guarantees, we legitimately and legally participated both our government and our new government, i.e. the new government, and that's totally okay. The problem is in the administration, which was accidentally spending the funds did not adequately inform the state, she hid the information about it, and therefore they should have gone far before, not to have this government release them for another 10 months. to work there. The same day the crisis broke out, they should've gone. Bye.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105375	I thank my esteemed colleague, Greek. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA's esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105376	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Honorable representatives of the ministry. We have today's budget rebalancing for 2018 has its own explanation relatively short, and it is essentially good because it paints very precisely the main problems that we met in 2018 and which actually show that this report by Minister Maric does not match the facts. In the beginning, he says that the state has some surplus, reportedly out of 1.5 billion kuna, and at the same time does not answer the question of where with 8 billion kunas of health debt. What would have happened to the budget if that debt had been settled, if there had been surpluses, there would have been none. So on the one hand, we don't pay the debts we have to pay and then on the other hand that we've earned something. So it's not a profit, it's just a transfer of responsibility to the next budget, not to say the next government. Furthermore, Minister Maric speaks of a decrease in the share of public debt in GDP, which is statistically correct, however, the quantitative debt increased compared to 2017, so it is a very simple mathematics that can understand the child in primary school, and the question arises whether the debt has grown or fallen, the debt has grown, why, because the state has paid 21 billion kuna of debt this year and is in debt by 24.5 billion. Therefore, if the state is in charge of 3.5 billion more than the debt has been paid, it is clear that no improvement and growth has occurred. Therefore, there is no recovery in the budget, there is no and so long as there is no, and now is the ideal opportunity to be it, the government deserves an assessment insufficient. It is also a pity that, at a time when there is at least some growth, thin far too thin since currently all EU economies are growing, including countries in the environment, we still fail to pay more debt than we do at the same time, and it is very bad, it is a policy of taking credit to close credits, and it cannot bring no one good in the long run. Also, in the 2018 budget or budget rebalancing, we see that a new item appears and that is the guarantee item for the Uljannik, or the costs that the state will have to pay for that shipyard and these costs are 4 billion kunas increased for costs and increased for fees. This year immediately means by 31.12., 2 billion 865 million kuna must be paid. And we now have to ask the question, who's to blame for that warranty to the Oilman at all, and the other who's to blame for it being activated? So, apparently the government admits the truth is, first of all, the government of Zoran Milanovic gave guarantees indiscriminately, so it was giving guarantees at a time when banks no longer wanted to lend loans to the Uljan. And there's already someone intelligent with little responsibility could clearly ask yourself, wait a minute why the banks don't want to give the oil more credit, just as you could ask yourself why banks no longer want to lend credits to Agrokor and with what right then the state gives money, or money in the form of guarantees, so that now here is the eve of Christmas a nice payment after a few years. 5 billion kunas to what it will cost to resuscitate the Uljanics on the burden of taxpayers, if it is shared with 4 million citizens, if we assume there are so many in Croatia, it means that every Croatian citizen including the baby that was born today will pay for the recovery of the Oilers with 1,250 kuna, each. And that's probably the Christmas card mentioned by Minister Maric, except that Christmas is not getting citizens from the state, but the state is getting from the citizens. That's the 13 pay you're talking about as some kind of tax discharge, right? Here, give each of you 1,250 kunas, so let's resuscitate Oilinik, that's politics, that's Minister Marić's successes, and that's 1% of GDP, and we have to give it to Uljannik, 1% of GDP. We've been trying so hard for years, I don't know for 7-8 years, that there's a GDP growth in general, and then what we're giving it for, then we're giving it for one single shipyard. And the fact that Mr. Grcic said that it was some kind of successful shipyard is not true because Uljanik got into trouble in 2014, in 2014, but in 2016 everything in Uljanic was known and existed for 2 years to do something at the time of the government of Tihomir Oreskovic and during the time of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and nothing was done until things culminated in strike and until the orders of ships were cancelled. There again we see the state's internality slowness, incompetence, because just as in the case of Agrokor, for which the 2009 state audit found that it was illegally showing its balance sheets, it took 8 years for something to happen, so it was only after the oil was out of control, then from once on, and what is being done is that taxpayers have to pay those debts and it's a very bad message, and the bad message is not only for the taxpayers to pay someone else's incompetence, but because no one is responding. No one's answering. Who's responsible? No one. Mr. Greek says I was a super minister, Mr. Maric says I was a super minister, tomorrow he'll write a book that, there will be a promotion in NSK, the book will be called Praise me my mouth, this one, and in reality we all have to pay their labour, their inaction, their incompetence, and that's what's very sad, and it's that in Croatia someone throws away with the property of taxpayers without ever having any responsibility, to receive one of those same pay, that there is no change, even less criminal responsibility which is therefore truly amazing. Minister Maric would have to know, along with members of his government, that all this has happened with Uljanic, follows soon at other shipyards. If we haven't managed to save the Oilman, let's wake up for Brodosplit, we'll have the same situation very soon. How many guarantees have been issued in total for shipyards and other companies in the Republic of Croatia? You don't know what's going on in Brodosplit, you know, but when you get to this stage, then you say we don't know what's going on in Brodosplit. Mr. Maric, thank you for coming, do you know what's going on in Brodosplit, don't you know?, I'll tell you what's going on. Here you go. Please. So now we've cleared up the situation so we don't know what's going on in Brodosplit, here's Minister Maric if he didn't know before, and he just found out in this second what's going on in Brodosplit. And not tomorrow, 2020, 2021, saying you didn't know, now you know. And don't let it happen again, not to repeat Agrokor, or to repeat other disasters that are happening, practically on a monthly basis. Of course, you will say, I repeat once again, what you of the Living Wall are just criticizing, not offering any solutions, here's a solution. Form an expert team, national, for shipbuilding, not for one shipyard, but for all shipyards as many as there are, rationalise the costs and determine exactly what shipyard they will do, at which price and with which people. It is the only way to save the shipbuilding, I repeat not one shipyard, but the entire Croatian shipbuilding. There are still enough professional people in Croatia, yet Croatia has enough engineers to do something about it, and you just wait, and again when 5 billion kunas are collected, then make a budget rebalance, so let Pero and Marko pay which, with this, have nothing to do with it. It's the first and let's say the most significant hole in the budget, but it's not the only one, because there are a few more, which I'm going to say in my individual debate, given that I'm now going to leave the word to Agent Pernar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105377	Thank you. Continued debate on behalf of the Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105378	Dear ladies and gentlemen. The truth always comes out, sooner or later, in the case of Minister of Finance Maric, it came out very, very quickly, and this is about the next. Last year, last year, since I was in the Parliament, I've been saying the same thing, which is that long shipyards, long Croatian railways and long highways, are actually a long state. And why is that? So because the state is bringing him back, and by various accounting tricks, that debt doesn't show up as a government debt, and everyone attacked me then, they said what you don't know about economy, about finance, we're experts, but what happened ladies and gentlemen? It happened exactly what I was warning you, the long shipyards have literally now fallen on the burden of the state, the only question is how they're going to book it, whether they're going to book it as a national commitment or not, but whatever they're writing down, they're going to have to pay for it in the end. What I would like to point out is the raw figures, and they are the following, the total internal and external debt of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in 2013, amounted to nearly 266 billion kuna, and in 2017, the total internal and external debt of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the general state, in 2013, is significantly higher than it was. I would also like to say Mr. Maric's next thought, your reports are over 100 days behind on the debt situation, at a time when the unprecedented development of information, when in one day we can find out everything. In other words, when you report the current state of debt, you do it with a delay, you should always give us current information. Another thing I would like to say is the total guarantee issued, in 2013, there were 8.8 billion kunas issued by state guarantees, 2017, meaning last, 11.9. It is also growth, however, I would like to say one thing, and it is next, this year, 2018, the state plans a new debt of 23.68 billion kuna. You're telling us, of course, that in that event scenario or I don't know what you call it, there's probably that term for the central bank, the lander of the last resort, so you say now, you say in that worst case and the deficit of 2 billion, but if the deficit is really two billion, as you claim, then what are you planning for this year to receive 23.68 billion in debt, which is why EUR 3 billion in new debt by the state, if the deficit is only 2 billion in the worst scenario. So I'll answer you why. Because credit commitments are due, you don't count on government spending, and that's how you're actually covering up the real situation. So you're saying budget expenditures are so much and so much, but you don't say but there's another $23.68 billion coming to pay, so we're going to have to charge that amount to get those loans back, but you're convincing us, you're telling us that the deficit has never been less, etc. Al, it's all a lie, it's been a lie the whole time you've been telling us about the surplus, you've told us about the surplus, today we know that the surplus is gone, today we know that the state's audit says that the planned deficit will actually be bigger than it was, we know that, Mr. Maric, we know that very well. The debt of the state is growing year by year, and you're aware of it yourself. Then what do you do? Well, that was recently a joke. Says the state takes 10 billion kuna credits to cover debts in the highways, says, but we won't book it as a government debt. Well, that's, that's all tricks. This report of yours, this budget plan of yours is unserious because it hides the real state of government debt, because it hides the real state of the missing in the register, and in fact this whole story will sooner or later be beaten over the head of Croatian citizens. I appeal to you to listen to your conscience and not to listen to what Plenkovic tells you and to tell us the truth here, what is objective, and not to what is from the perspective of some propagandaist, a drinker who assures us that everything is great. Because Mr. Maric, if everything was great, so people wouldn't be running from the Republic of Croatia, these migrants wouldn't be running from the Republic of Croatia either. They come in, so they, uh, get out as soon as possible. Well, they wouldn't do that if the situation in the Republic of Croatia were good, neither would the people living here from the Republic of Croatia be running away if the situation were good. But unfortunately, the situation is not good if this real-state blurry policy continues, it'll get worse. Yesterday, Mr. Maric warned or yesterday on the shocking data of demographics that there were never fewer children born, never. You have, they've shown back in the last, I don't know, five or ten years, but in fact in the last 100 years we've never stood so badly. And from year to year and month to month, the children are getting smaller and smaller. You're aware of that, what are you doing to stop it? Nothing. Unfortunately, Mr. Maric, nothing. The measures you're doing are insufficient. Recently when the young man, the strmota, resigned from the Ministry of Demography, they asked him later, they told him, so wait for these measures that you're proposing, so it's just some recycling, some old stories, he says, so actually you're right, we don't really have a solution. This government does not give adequate solutions and has resigned. The man had a state of consciousness, he had morals, he said I wouldn't lie to you anymore, I can't look you in the eye and tell one lie after another. I call on you to do the same as Mr. Marin Strmota, to resign, to sit down in the constituency benches and stop supporting this government and this policy that is being implemented. Because this policy will ruin us all together. We don't just have a problem with the growing government debt, we have a problem and capital outflows, we have a situation that foreigners have taken over all the profit capital in the country, that all the money we create, they're actually getting out of the country. We're meeting with the Central Bank as a currency exchanger in a colonial slave model where we don't grow as much as we should, I'd dare say even if we were going down. The number of inhabitants tells you more than enough. I don't have to explain anything extra here. Well, I hope you take my word for it and do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105379	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the SDSS representative club, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105380	The Honorable Vice President of HS, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDSS Club can assess the positive overall fiscal policy results for this year, which we are now discussing over budget rebalances. And I'll explain in my debate why. I think that fiscal policy measures, especially tax policies, have been beneficial to the budget. Of course, this has also been done by favourable circumstances, favourable trends for countries in the environment, but also for the whole of the EU. And these favourable trends lead to our GDP growing somewhere in the first term of 2.7%. If we can be satisfied with that, of course not, we're always trying and we'd like more. The probability is, and this is a good thing and the good news, that this trend will continue, now it's just a question of how much, the forecasts of some speeches, however, that it will be less than what we wanted or planned last year when the budget was adopted, but we'll be smarter next Wednesday when the State Statistics Institute publishes the first estimates of GDP for the third quarter of this year. With this rebalance compared to the original budget, we predict an increase in tax revenues due to favourable economic movements, and at the same time we have less income on the item withdrawing funds from European funds. And so there are smaller profits from companies in the public sector, and then we have a slight correction relative to the level of total income, corrections, that is, we have a reduction and total expenditure, and yet this is due to one large part of the planning and withdrawal of funds from European funds, which is actually shown as one key neural point in planning the state budget. So we have a decline in income and expenditure in European funds, i.e., there has actually not been a fall, but there has been an unrealisation of the projects that were planned. This problem of EU planning, not since yesterday, is not from this year, but it has been repeating itself since the previous years, in fact from the time we had pre-accession funds and then to the EU funds, so as the funds have increased, these financial gaps have increased in planning. Budgetary users were pre-optimistically planning, and in fact they would have to adopt the logic of budget planning, so they should know when the programme will be implemented, which actually means contracting funds, which actually means maturity, or payout. Much of the correction applies to them, but here I would say that what is important is that the implementation of the projects does not fall on the burden of the state budget, that they are still realised by EU funds, if it will not be this year to be in the next year. As a result of bad planning, our expenditures fell by as much as 505 million kn. And the culprit is not the Ministry of Finance, the culprits are the various ministries that are numbered in the material we received for this debate. And that could be said every year by one of those same ministries, all known renaissances, and the only thing we can appeal to the Ministry of Finance is actually to train them better in terms of budget planning and budgetary logic so that this doesn't happen again. As for health care, as another neural point in this budget, we have a situation to increase health expenditure, that some 405 million kn surplus on some items will be transferred to health care, about 305 million going to successful hospitals, 100 million going to the bill, transferred to the HZZO account, that's a total of some 405 million kn, dedicated strictly dedicated money. We had a similar story last year with a much larger amount, a billion kuna. Is that good, it's not good, it's good that we have a surplus and we can pay those dues, and on the other hand, what's actually the obligation of the Ministry of Health, but also of the entire government, to find a way to reduce long-term debt in health, not to deal with such palitative measures, for which, every Mr. Finance still finds the means to transfer to the Ministry of Health. What is good is that the Ministry of Health will deploy these money on purpose, that they will agree with hospitals, which are strictly dedicated, so it will be a contract to determine to what purpose this money is going to be and to stop the obligation of the hospital to spend that money and to inform the Ministry of Health. The third thing that doesn't matter less, which happened to us this year and over the past years, we were lucky it wasn't happening is the Oil and the activation of state guarantees. Already my colleagues who discussed this, with the minister in the debate, pointed out that the item is significantly increasing from about 260 million to 2.8 billion kn. So it's about big money, total RH exposure, 4.2 billion kn, so it's really about large amounts. We've been lucky so far that it hasn't been activated yet, but here, this year's situation has come, that the shipyards or the Oily Group could no longer serve their obligations, service their business, and has come into a situation so that they can't pay their salaries to their workers. And this government has given guarantees, as well as previous governments, we've already heard it in the debate, and this government is as responsible as the previous governments, but we should look the truth into the eyes and actually ask all of us, personally, if we were sitting in the government, who wouldn't raise a hand to bail out, who wouldn't try to save jobs and one of the branches we used to be proud of, which is a shipyard. Responsibilities are primarily in administrations, and then only in governments. What we can still be happy about in this accident, that the state budget in this year can withstand the activation of guarantees and that we can be credible towards creditors as a state because we will actually be able to service or, in fact, pay what we have guaranteed, and so because of this situation, we come to a minus, to the deficit, instead of the planned surplus 0.5%, despite the fact that we expect how much I understood from the material from the Minister's exposure, by the end of the year the continuation of the trend of the public debt reduction in GDP to some 74.6%. What I would certainly like to praise, what I read among the lines in the rebalancing itself is the reduction of the item relating to the budget stock, which means that the state was partly fortunate because we were not affected by any natural disasters, so the state did not have to intervene and on the other hand this means that it shows the discipline and firmness of the Ministry of Finance, which did not give way to a number of pressures to solve and patch up certain holes. What else would you point out for 2018? I would point out the local budgets, the new distribution of income tax applied this year, and I think it's good, it's not for the final assessment yet, but it's proved that the municipalities, especially those in undeveloped areas with a smaller development index, have received more funding, have received one financial security and can better plan certain investments, it's actually that it goes in favour of the even development of the entire Republic, and that's what's good, but I'm saying, it needs to wait all year and see actually all the pluses and minuses and new distributions that actually, for now, I have to admit, shows the benefits. What I would point out at the end of my debate, although I still have about 10 minutes, I will not be obliged to, would stress, therefore, that in the first year of the mandate, I stress, in the first year of my term, the government will improve development programmes that will improve those areas that are historically living, members of national minorities, who are demographically, economically or socially weakened and below average, hence the national average of development and that they will be provided with greater financial support and specific development instruments. A similar definition is also in the operational programmes for national minorities also adopted by the government of the Republic of Croatia, and this also says that it will do so in the first year of its term of office. Something is to say, I'm not going to do something now, but one step has been made this year, so a step has been made in this year, programs have been developed for both municipal and social infrastructures and for agricultural or small OPGs and for entrepreneurs operating in areas which are therefore undeveloped where historically members of national minorities live. What is missing now is a further step, not to be on one volunteer basis but to be in the law, so that it stands clearly in the law and that, accordingly, there are clear budget items so that they do not actually have the uncertainty of each year, whether it will be, how much it will be, and how it will be, but in fact also those units of local self-government and the OPGs and entrepreneurs can clearly count and plan to get the support of the state, so for their work and survival in these areas, it should also be seen as a development measure and demographic measure and whatever we want. Here's a thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105381	I thank my fellow Milosevic, and we are moving on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105382	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with associates, here's a respected colleague and colleague. Here's what our colleague said earlier, certain that this half-year report says that everything that seems to be happening in this period and is actually continuing from the previous period, shows exact figures where GDP growth is seen to be exact, that consumption is growing, that there are also positive shifts in industrial production, in trade for a little while, in increasing the index of the volume of construction works, and also as it is repeatedly mentioned that the tourism that is here also recorded a growth of 8.8%, to make a significant contribution to the overall picture. We must not forget to say the same way that there is a reduction in the number of unemployed people at the lowest level in the last 15 years I think, and that is only 167 000 unemployed despite the fact that many want to show it as just going to youth and others abroad that can't be said at all. Looking at the achievement through these six months. All income, we see that it is within the frameworks planned and that the plan is in the last year and also in this one that planning is realistic and in this way there are no major deviations, that in this way we have trust and rating agencies, and then we can also do what has been achieved at the savings level, we can largely be grateful and with general movements in the capital market. Many colleagues here are insinuating when it is said that if a debt is refinanced, then it must be shown in the budget in full, so that everything that you are refinanced at that moment then you must display as such in your account, and everything that seems and has been done through the infrastructure and how multiple returns through tourism and not only tourism but also the traffic of goods and services, which actually increases this multiplier effect. What should certainly be mentioned is that it is also in the position of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, it is said that the fiscal rule of the structural balance was also respected and thus that the growth of expenditure was not greater than expected GDP growth, so that is what is very much being followed. In a multi-stage tax reform in the latter with a discharge of more than 3.6 billion kunas, it actually allows the population to have increasing potential and consumption potential, making this available income both more quality and safer and one more optimistic way of life, and the economy is also seen to be in certain segments and how it recovers. This does not mean that we do not need to continue to invest and think about how and how to help the economy, but in any case we need to make additional efforts to make certain segments and primarily health care and our problems, such as in this case shipbuilding, in order to actually be able to put all these problems that have been put under the rug for many years, realistically look at and assess how a branch of industry is sustainable and how it can, as such, bring a certain profit rather than negotiating jobs that are not being executed which loses ratings and towards investors themselves, and also does not bring any benefit. When we talk about gross domestic product, then it is evident that the share of public debt in the gross domestic product is constantly falling at a higher rate than we were expected in the pact. These changes and additions, as you can see, increase the total revenue to €129.2 billion and thus raise tax revenues by €144 million. It is evident that we are not ultimately having any greater growth except within the redistribution that occurred within individual ministries and savings that have been redistributed, and I also have to mention this at this time, as I have talked about in the previous debate on the negotiation of EU projects, we are in this perspective, and this has been established by the review from 2003 to 2013 that 71.1% of the total funds has been agreed, which is around EUR 1.27 billion. Normally, we cannot be satisfied with the agreed and or what is paid is important what we want to show and how we measure the whole process, but what is very important is that in this period from 2013 to 2020, and now what can be measured is about 60%. This in one way with these changes in methodology and in the very legal changes, we are pleased that we will probably then achieve in this perspective by 2020 over these 71% I hope much more. With the fact that we must always have certain reserves since certain projects come into certain problems or just designing if the building or other challenges that arise in walking can happen or performers as we have had examples in my city too, so they come into trouble and then the whole project comes into question and it may happen that the city or the municipality or the ministry must return to the full amount of funds that it did not use at the right time. When we talk about the changes themselves, then we must say that it is very important that the reduction of public debt is still planned, therefore, from those initial positions, as planned, will continue to remain at level 74.6 as planned. I would once again point out that just when we are talking about expenditures, and especially those are in relation to employees, then we must certainly lead to that, that the previous period had been replaced by the funds, which were from collective agreements, therefore, public services and spent. So, by increasing on a continuous basis, by increasing two plus two plus two, so six cumulatively, more than 6%, that is, now in 2018, bringing in new expenditure, which increases both in the Ministry of Labour, Pensions and Disabilities and maternity leave, costs for additional maternity leave, etc. And also salaries related to the Ministry of the Interior, demographics, over 63 million kn. It's all about a system that's important in protecting our external borders. If we are talking about the amendments and the additions of the Law on the implementation of the State budget, we must mention several changes, primarily the reduction of the budget stock from 200 to 80 million kn. And the reasons, as already mentioned, are actually the extra funds that could not be used in this year for the purposes provided for by the law, because all happiness did not have such needs. And then these same funds can be re-distributed to those needs that are necessary in the amendments to the enforcement law itself and allow for the temporary repayment of credit to the restructuring and sale centre. It's like we know... is abolished and, as such, the commitments will be reduced and in fact, the public debt of the Republic of Croatia will be reduced and thus intervened in the law itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the amendments to the performance, what is already mentioned and the level of duty shall be changed. What's important is to point out that it's an art. 4. Make it possible for the Minister of Finance, with the consent of the Government, to intervene on the duties, i.e. in charge of the need to withdraw EU funds. In fact, there is a situation where no funds can be obtained before a particular job is done, and thus the refund cannot be achieved before the whole project is completed. In this way, in fact, the liquidity of the Ministry of Finance itself is supported by the realization of a specific project, but then the refund will follow after the final calculation of the budget itself. The minister also mentioned, increasing the amount of the guarantee stock, for the reason it is necessary to provide liquid funds for the activation of guarantees, which is what we must actually be responsible for, for everything the governments have given as a security in the execution and final completion of the boards that were in our shipyards. This way, I think we are, there's still a change that's happened, and it's about the Ministry of Health and Health Services. This article is an amendment to Article 53 which allows the Ministry of Health to pay for part of the commitments made to hospital institutions owned by the county, which is what we already know in the last year was made possible in another way. This is where it's regulated by the changes themselves. So, in this way, it tries to resuscitate as much as possible but also intervenes in the health system itself in order to achieve as much rationalisation as possible and to enable new and future jobs that and professions that happen not to generate new obligations, i.e., not to bring them into the best possible frameworks, so that the whole system can actually function as high-quality as possible. Here, the HDZ Club supports all these above-mentioned changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105383	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HNS representative club, dear colleague Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105384	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice-President of the Parliament, Based on the achievements we had for the first 6 months and projections or results for the third quarter, we expect 2.7% of real GDP growth. So this result is actually due to the growth in traffic from retail to small and increased in the third quarter by 3%, while we have a growth in overnight tourists from 1.6% in August. What's particularly important to point out here is the index of growth in construction works of 8.5%. We all know what the building looked like three years ago, four years ago, when many construction firms closed down, but there was still some growth, and that except for those works of investment, which are investing companies, which are citizens themselves. I think that's exactly where the government has contributed a lot, and that's through the Ministry of Construction, where many companies are now working on an energy reconstruction of public buildings. We all know that for the second year now, we have subsidized loans for young people, where it's really a great interest, where construction is defined or built or built, or we have some reconstructions, redesigns, arrangements, and we also have POS construction. So that's a really good indicator. What worries about this is that in the third quarter we record a 1.5% drop in industrial production. That's what needs to be done by an analysis, to see what industry it is, whether it's complete, or whether it's a particular branch, to know what to take. So we have data that shows us that we have slightly lower real GDP growth than was planned for 2018, it was 2.9, now it's 2.7 and slightly higher inflation. However, what we are also concerned about in the HNS club is where we have a comparison of exports of goods and services and imports of goods services. Both notes a decrease, we also have a reduction in exports and reduced imports. However, in exports we had planned 5.2, now 3.6, or that's 1.6 index points, but that makes 30%. So 30% of the export plan is now less of these changes. In imports, we have the same correction, a reduction from 6.2 to 5.7, that's 0.5 index points, and that's only 8%. So, exports of goods to us, we're planning a 30% reduction, and imports are only 8%. And that's the information that should make us all worried. However, I hope that this picture will at least improve the adoption of this third package of tax laws. Namely, we have a reduction in VAT rates from 25 to 13% to fresh meat, fresh fruit, fresh vegetables. We know what is fresh and it is seen on the nomenclature and I hope that there will be far greater consumption of domestic meat, homemade fruit, homemade vegetables and that there will be far less imports of these products. What matters most is in this category income is tax revenues. We were all afraid when we were cutting tax rates, whether it would be enough in the state budget to collect. You can see that. So that's how 3.1% of VAT growth is projected compared to planned. So the positive movements that were in the economy contributed to that. What we have yet to bring in as part of the tax laws package is profit tax. Already, my colleagues said earlier, there was a drastic reduction, so we had a previous rate of tax on income of 20%, with the rate paid in 2018, and for 2017 it was reduced to 18% for those large and 12%, respectively, paid by all those small to 3 million kuna. And that's where we record a 1.3% growth, so that was a good measure. The contributions that have been collected are, in fact, more collected and planned with a rebalancing of 2.6% due to favourable labour market developments, we know that wages have increased, and so that has contributed to that as well. In part of the revenue cuts, 2.6 billion kuna aid has been cut. That's the same thing where there must be room for concern. It is true that the withdrawal dynamic has been changed, as given in the explanation. However, there is a part of objective circumstances, but there is certainly a part of the subjective circumstances to be identified, to be worked out and to be solved, because this is what we will all agree that there is room for this dynamic to be better than it is now. The proceeds from the assets, there are fewer income payments from the profits of companies in the public sector, if prices had been raised there would have been more, but I think for our citizens it would have been better if the situation had been so. We've already heard that the biggest savings were made on interest, which are now now reduced by 747 million kuna. These are means of funds, if we take as much as they were reduced last year, so I don't know if there's going to be much reduction in that part of the next year, I hope that we want our ratings to grow and that we can still make certain savings there. And what we've all looked back at, all my colleagues who have participated in the debates so far, it's a health care system. Last year, we also rebalanced a certain amount of funds that goes towards the recovery of healthcare debts and that recovery of the health debts just earned. What we've now predicted is the internal redistribution in the Health Ministry of 146 million and this additional 305 million, so a total of 405 I think is a drop in the sea. That it'll mean something but that it'll solve this problem, it certainly won't. There's also a transfer to HZZO for over 42 days of 100 million kuna. We have heard that we have obligations under court disputes, we have an increase in pensions by 27 million kuna, other expenditures for employees of 184 million due to the application of collective agreements, compensation for assistance and personal disability 104 million, additional maternity leave of 93 million, and I hope that it is not only the reason for the increase in the amount of compensation but also that the reason for this larger item is the need because more of our citizens are benefiting our mothers from this maternity leave, so I will do a little bit to see and that analysis is just as numerical as it is, which is why this is going on, and I haven't arrived at the club now, and we're not doing this, but we certainly want to consider it. And here we have another one of the larger items of 63 million kuna there is also the application of border collective agreements and sublegal acts that regulate salaries in the Ministry of Demography, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. And what we've all looked back on, and that's a guarantee reserve that increases by 2.6 billion kuna. So far we've always had that position here we've heard from the minister here about 260 million kunas and that's enough when those smaller guarantees were activated. But what awaits us in this year is these additional 2.6 billion that will have to be paid out of the State budget. And that's what actually additionally spoils the picture but not only spoils the image and statistical data but we're really going to miss that amount that we could certainly be using for other purposes. I don't know if it's just the 2018 information. – In 2019, projections of the public debt movement by looking at the table can really be satisfied that despite all these problems, a reduction of public debt is planned from not speaking since 2015 when 80 of the entire 3.7 share of GDP was in order for 2017 to be 77.5, 2018. 74.6 so the reduction by three index points we know and we see these guarantees and what's waiting for us. We also have for the following year certain guarantees are secure and included in the projection, but also a reduction of 3% is planned, so 74.6 to 71.6. We'll definitely back up at the HNS Club, and now a colleague hears the sequel please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105385	Thank you very much, the Honorable Representative Stephen Curaj will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105386	I would like to thank the Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues for a little while, since we have heard the numbers many times today to try to illustrate what these numbers can actually represent or represent. Of course, when we have rebalancing in the second part of practically 11 months, we know that we are harmonising with what is planned and that we need to observe it as such. What's good here and what's certainly said is that the increase in turnover income is generally increased by 3%, the number of overnight stays has increased, but we are immediately getting information that the construction index has increased by 8.5%. So there's something going on. However, if everything was not the most brilliant tells us 2 data, the decline in industrial production that we are already listening to during the months and colleague Makar also mentioned the decline in exports. When we talk about items to see that VAT has increased and is growing over 3% of VAT revenue, it is in line with personal consumption, so it is no wonder that personal consumption is also on the rise, when we look at the GDP share index, almost 25 increases personal consumption. Of course, this part of VAT revenue growth should not be ignored and the funding that we have from outside, above all when we talk about various EU programmes and funds, which are absolutely one to say, a fresh dose of blood on our financial system, especially on revenue. What's a reduction, when we speak, we didn't exactly plan these funds, or we didn't realize them, as we planned, so we have a reduction, in general, of 2.6 billion kn. In different paragraphs, it is said about 1.1 billion kn on those reductions that, let's say, do not affect the deficit, while about 500 million kn, is on those who are influencing. However, what is equally important from this, which we can see, is that the increased income for contributions, for pension insurance of 638 million. So what's the result? Either the contributions increase, so the wages rise or the number of employees is increased, probably both, in correlation when we look at the percentages of unemployed, which are now recordless, we can say low, obviously that the number of employees themselves has increased, but that the wages go up, automatically increase the number, the amount for paid contributions, by almost 3%. It's something we can certainly track down that's moving in the right direction. Of course we'd like it to be much better, of course we'd like it to have more resources for different projects. Some here are even listed where it was spent, I'm not going to repeat, all the more. What we're talking about is savings, which is, here's a colleague of Greece's outside the club, he also praised, they can join these congratulations, so the reduction of interest by 747 million kn, the contributions of the Croatian EU, are a reduction of nearly 230 million kn. It's the ones who say we pay more all the time than we get, etc. It is neither true nor even statistical, nor to the extent, of course, and a reduction of the budget stock of 120 million, of course, which is immediately attached to the aforementioned guarantee for the Oilman that we need nothing special to elaborate above all. So, savings are there and savings are which are actually, let's say in one way saved this budget and, of course, the growth of income primarily from GDP because we stayed on some mild, almost undetectable deficit and if it was planned, quite conservative and planning who I see will be in projections for the next year's greater deficit, he nevertheless realistically did not happen to Oil, would also have been a slightly higher surplus, I think even, rather than last year. What I would certainly like to do is just apostrope when I'm talking about extra-profit users and Croatian roads, and later I'll explain why, therefore, it's also a reduction in interest expenditure of nearly 20%, 18.2% or 208 million kn, is also expenditure on non-financial assets is reduced by almost, i.e., by 375 million kn or 20%. Of course, this is due to a lack of fulfillment of the investment plan. So, not all of what is planned to be spent, it has not been done, due to public procurement, due to weather hits, accidents, however you will, and probably as well as these European projects that are not realised in this year are being transferred for the next Mr. So it is that it gives us a far more positive result than planned when we talk about Croatian roads, where the plan was practically to end something in loss, now there will be 200 million kn surpluses. However, I would have apostrophe there that certainly with one item, which is called the construction and reconstruction program of fast roads, which is more or less according to this, so far that we have had years of reconstruction and not so much built new kilometers of fast roads, would just draw attention to the fact that roads are the vessels of the house and we know what highways have brought us both for our tourism and for the development of the coastal area, especially the interior of Dalmatia, like, Istria, I don't have to talk about it in particular. But that would also be important and also be important for Slavonia and Baranja. And we've heard many times what it would mean and where the biggest bottleneck is, when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja, it's about the Podravska highway, I can't tell you enough times how much it's talked to, everyone recognized the importance of going to the construction of a fast road, the sub-level highway, something we have in the announcements of a bypass around the Petrijevac, it's finished Miholjac going around Slatina. So there was something going on in the stages, but it hasn't been systematically revived yet, once we get out of Bjelovar, it's not a fast road in that profile as it is to Bjelovar. We know what this meant to the town of Bjelovar, we want it the rest, we want it Virovitica, we want Slatini, we want Miholjca, we want all of our subordinates... And that's something that must be found, if not for the next gentleman but in the projections for the next few years, that the pace rises, that how we see that executions can never especially follow that road dam to have that space... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105387	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which will speak the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105388	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here in the other part of the day, I have this other group. And when we look at a general picture of the budget, i.e. this rebalancing, it would be concluded that there is no big drama at least as far as these basic figures are concerned and these are simply some facts and it should be very correct and fair to say that this is the case. The same way that we in this file read something that I said in the debate on the first part of the day, which is to see an increase in personal consumption, to see an increase in tourism and this increase that it sees, is seen in construction. The construction sector is one sector that first senses recession, the construction sector is the same when some shifts occur, it is the one that feels relatively quickly, the construction sector in Croatia currently has one big problem, which is the labour problem. So when you talk a little with colleagues who deal with it, then they all say the job has, what was always a problem, it's being charged, even the prices are very correct, but says there's no one to work with, and that's a fundamental problem that we should deal with, and of course, there's nothing to talk about with this pay phone that's in any way related to certain shifts in the economy, and of course the budget is that, that I'm not pointing out the fact, my people, there's no one working with us anymore. My colleague who has a lot of employees says, I talk to them all in gloves, that someone doesn't take offense, because he says insult himself and doesn't come to work anymore because he's going somewhere else to work. So the alarming situation is tied to the workforce, because without work, there won't be any of these other things. So I once again use this opportunity to point out that fact and make sure, so, right now it's big, we filled the pool, we filled the pool and Bosnia and Herzegovina, we filled the pool and neighbouring countries, in the construction of those basic jobs, someone no longer has to work. Someone must be on your mixer, someone must be on your armature, someone must be on concrete, it happened before, somewhere at the end of the ninth month, in the City of Zagreb, one Friday, for a large construction site could not be completed, because no one could give 3 cc's of concrete anymore. So these are your situations that are, and that's something to take care of in the future. But I'm going to go back to some other topics from this budget. I will return to one topic I have already announced, which is the withdrawal of funds from the operational funds competitiveness and cohesion of 2014-2020. The fact is that 10.7 billion were planned, 8.1 billion were achieved, and that was a 25% bribe, or as all the figures said 2.6 billion. But let's tell the truth because of all those Eurosceptics sitting in this Assembly and listening to us. We in the European Union have so far paid 3.3 billion, and regardless of this subversive, it is clear that only much more withdrawn than it is, but we have planned 10 billion, and we have planned this 25 per cent bribe. And it's interesting to see who's here from the Ministry, which I would say is the worst job I've ever done. So here's the first Ministry, believe it or one of the first Ministries, believe it or not, the Ministry of Economy, which has an 820 million kuna submerge. And I suppose as Minister Horvato has recently blamed the Oilman, that maybe that's what the Oilman did. Then the Ministry of Agriculture. Looking at the revenue from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, 287 million were withdrawn from the project. And then when we add to that 100 million kuna less withdrawn from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, we get up to one 400 million kuna less than the Deputy Prime Minister was prepared, knew and could withdraw. Then there's the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, with 226 million less from the European Regional Development Fund, and the particularly devastating situation is at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, I can even say tragic, there's 736 million less from the Cohesion Fund, it's actually about the fact that these ministries weren't ready, they didn't do their job, they didn't do what they planned. So something was planned and what was planned, it wasn't done, and it should certainly be seen here what the reasons for this subversive were, because it was a 25% subversive subversive. I'm taking this opportunity to say something to cover the cost of state losers. Or they're state-owned companies where, regardless of whether they're in plus or they're in some heavy minus, they regularly pay Christmases, resurrections, stimulations, severances to the administrations, and of course they have salaries that significantly bounce above the national average because it's always a reason that you need to get a quality fit, that when of course he doesn't want to work for those small money, he should, uh, really get them and the right fee for his job, which I generally agree with, but there should be some results, so it would be kind of much smarter to be consistent with the results. One of these biggest losers, who hasn't been since yesterday, but for many years now, is HZ holding. We talk about investing in the road quite often from this pay phone, we are talking about, for the simple reason that we have done a good job here at some point, and regardless of what we can complain about what certain directions should be completed, what some general, and the stocks should end up working, compared to when you look at a little report of some spatial indicators in general, the road network in Croatia is in a decent state, even more our highways and individual tunnels when they are assessed from the aspect and safety and quality, among the better in Europe, these are things that we can somehow boast about, but no matter what every time you look at the country's development strategies, I always talk about investing in rail infrastructure, we do not do it properly. What we are, therefore, is this railroad that we have and these basic directions that we have, they were made during Austro-Hungarian times. We invest enough, we don't use enough and we don't use it in the potential for economic development and now little about this famous HZ that is divided into several companies and related to subsidies. So HH passenger transport will be next and in 2020, obtaining 442 million state subsidies and in 2021 it will jump to 474 million. And all of this is in line with what is called a public service contract because it has been declared a service of general economic interest in public rail transport so that when they go on January 1st, when the full liberalisation of rail services in passenger transport, based on the contract, subsidies can also be granted or any EU carrier may also occur and therefore we have decided to grant subsidies. Therefore, in order to limit transporters from the EU in a certain way, we decided to subsidise, to subsidies of 1.1, so with 442 million kuna, and then to grow to 474, so HH passenger transport will be protected for the next 10 years. Count half a billion kuna a year, in 10 years it's 5 billion. What about the aspect if we're sure that we're going to get a result, if we're sure it'll work out with something good a man would say, maybe that's what it's worth to us. But with experience in HZ, I'm afraid that in those 10 years, we won't be able to achieve what was needed and that's to improve the rolling stock, fix the companies and cut downs. These are the two basic things to do, and that is why I was deliberately talking about the general railway infrastructure in which we have recently started to invest, some other EU countries are doing it in a different way, and I, for example, looked at some of the situations that were in Italy, at the moment that the city of Milan became absolutely traffic-sufficient with a very strong industry, but also in traffic terms astoundingly decided its potential for labour and accommodation of people in Bologna and made a fast rail connection so that someone living in Bologna can work in Milan and come relatively fast. The railway network is usually important and important, you can look at it and we can witness some other EU countries where, in this way, you can live safely, well in Zagreb and work with a good railway network in Munich or Milan and live here, and these are some potentials that are. We are quite far from it, it takes a great project, a great investment and, of course, a number of questions, we have decided about HZ traffic in fact to subsidize for 10 years, invest 5 billion kuna and not end up being sure of the result that we will get and it is good that among other things this debate is being recorded somewhere, so maybe someone in a few years will be asked and say that maybe this decision wasn't exactly the best possible. And I wrote another cartoon here from the budget, among other things, so let's not forget, let me mention, let's say one of the biggest increases through this rebalancing gets SOA and that's increased by 84% from 359 to 664 million kuna. In the context of all these SMS affairs and others, it would be interesting to see even though we can't see it, what's in that part of the budget, I guess maybe someone's going to write a book or maybe someone's going to do some other system. For the end, I'd like to refer a few sentences on the subject of the Oilies. One of the ministers from this government, and this is Minister Pavic, has recently, very certainly said that this government would certainly pay the Christmases to the pensioners only if it wasn't for Uljanika and then it turns out that the Uljanik is welcome for the simple reason that the Uljanik is to blame for everything. Oil and Trti May is actually a synonym and a painting of shipbuilding. And this is, among other things, when we see that the guarantee that will be activated is a key question, and we need to ask that key question in the debate on budget rebalancing and certainly on the budget, whether we will continue to shipbuilding in Croatia. Whether shipbuilding will be in Croatia, if it will be, will we decide on some smaller shipyards, whether we will decide on another option for the simple reason why it binds to ourselves and other things. If we do not have shipbuilding, then in this context we no longer have the need for high schools, so for shipbuilding technicians and even less need for colleges, because then we in our budget will finance children to study for professions that we immediately know will not be able to get a job in Croatia but will have to look elsewhere. But when it comes to the guarantees for shipbuilding or for the Uljanik that in the space on several occasions there were different data, one of the data was spoken by Minister Maric, other information was made by Minister Horvat but we heard today from Minister Maric and I am kind of inclined to believe what he said, what it was really about. When you get into this together a little bit, then you see that the guarantees of the Split Bank are activated in the amount of HRK 360 million, but here, when you look at everything together, one key question is that the cancelled orders may be a paradox that the good news is that the costs for the shipyard and the state are likely to be lower than the four ships built entirely. And it's this one paradox and it's something that can't be repeated. Because when you look at the documents that have been issued, which have been delivered for the purpose of issuing guarantees, then the instructions in those documents are that the profits per ship will be between 400 and 500,000,00 EUR, and it turns out that, by boat, about 100 million kuna is average. Well, maybe every evil, too, is not for evil. Maybe those ships that stay, because they'll stay owned by the Oil Group, maybe they can get a job with another competitor, finish the boat and maybe cut it all together. But the key question we have is whether or not we need shipbuilding. I'm sure what Minister Pavic said would only have Santa Clauses if it weren't for Uljanika, it's not the Ulnik's fault, but that's what needs to be taken care of. But there's something that's hard to get out of this pay phone or anyone else's place without saying a few words, which is a health problem. We all have the feeling that the topic of health and the losses that are there like a bottomless bag, open the bag no matter how much you put in that bag, and when you look at it again, it's empty and inside a voice screams, we need more. For all of this we must clearly say that there must be one serious reform of the entire system, that the system does not work this way and that there will be no Minister of Finance behind this minister who will not again come up with the problem of health and we will discuss it again, one serious step must be made together, one serious story, because it is only a matter of whether there will be a question of how many hundreds of millions or billions. And in doing so, I have to say that every one of us when he's saying a hundred million or a billion, we say it very lightly, we all talk there with 5, 10,000,00 kn, we understand that, this is something harder for us. I usually do when I'm discussing such things, then I try to turn it into values or schools or the value of some public buildings is that it's easier for me to talk about the budget, but here, the budget rebalance is ahead of us. We at the Glass Club and HSU, despite the fact that there's no big drama, but there's no big hope that in the future we're still going to make a serious step, we're not going to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105389	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to individual debates and the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105390	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, and distinguished ministers with their assistants. My colleagues and colleagues, the half-yearly report for the first 6 months tells us the results that we must look at what is really, what is real, essentially what has to torture us, and mainly the Government, and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because this year it is the fact that they could reach more than EUR 3 billion of imports of food products. Unfortunately, more and more imports are growing, while the minister and government all the time say more and more funds are being invested in agriculture, in subsidies, in incentives, however, such reality is not. So, with all that the minister and government are saying, the facts say that in the first 6 months of 2018, the Republic of Croatia imported value, it imported, in the worth of food products a billion and 780 million USA, while in the same period last year it imported by 1.49, which means 300 million USA more this year is imported food products than last year. That's one bad indicator, bad policy, and when we look at what we're essentially about, what we're importing, and what we're exporting, then when we look at only imports. Most of all, in the Republic of Croatia, we import pork, bread, pastry products, and constantly increase the import of fruit, vegetables, milk and dairy. So we are increasingly subsidizing agriculture, and imports are growing more and more. I now compare the parallel when we talk about the first 6 months of the RH budget and when we talk about the real state, an example of what we have as a resource and potential, which is food production. In addition to the figures pointing to the already known fact that Croatian pork and dairy production simply failed, we no longer have it. So I'm interested in what the Minister of Agriculture says about these results, because it's not enough that only the Minister of Finance here recites to us with nice songs about what financial indicators they are. Let's look at reality, we need to look at reality. And the fact is that we export grain, and one of the biggest, most that we import is baker's products, bread, cookies, which is amazing. I would ask the minister what are the effects of these indicators that simply our food production is falling. ... in the Republic of Croatia this summer, when in the season of apples, fruits, vegetables, other or grapes as was the case in Vrgorac or apples in the Zadar hinterland, the most then poisoning chains, when we cannot sell our products, imports of foreign agricultural products are issues, these are key issues. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as it's possible for our fruitcakes to drink peaches, drink apples, and not be able to sell. So it's not just a question of the dry and financial report, but of the fact that those dealing with agriculture, and Croatia, the minister says that you have increased subsidies in agriculture, we are increasingly exporting. And that, the increase is much larger imports than if the minister will later boast, that we have exported something more. I find this worrying about the government and that the government needs much more serious access to this issue of protection of domestic products, because it is the fact that huge money is being invested, i.e. I don't know who he's going to, but it's the fact that he's subsidizing from the budget huge money. When we talk about budgets and revenues, a few days ago, I asked Plenkovic a question here on the parliamentary issue, which is why teleopers in Croatia do not behave as in the countries where they come from. The prime minister did not want to answer me, and he told me for the first time since I knew that he had not answered the question, but said that the minister, to me, would send this answer. No matter what I've asked so far, it's a huge problem, while at the same time HT boasts there's an increase in profits in the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time these teleopers don't respect the legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia and they're above the law. The biggest teleoperator in Europe is in Croatia. 42% a few days ago, the HT president boasted that by 1.26%, the profits again jumped. The margin. While in the EU, the average is around 20%. For what? Because they don't pay the right to serve. And that in countries where the right of service comes from, and this item could be increased that in the state budget, at local level, regional level, however, teleopers do not behave in the Republic of Croatia as they do in Croatia and do not invest in Croatia, they invest in Montenegro. It's also another important question, it's banks. Banks in the Republic of Croatia, on fees, will confirm that, with fees, fees, numerous, not on interest, earns over, earns more than $ 3.5 billion. 3.5 billion, we're not talking about interest. And nobody controls it and of course it's their age and of course they don't invest it in Croatia, they don't invest in third countries, where our people go. A few days ago, I was in Germany, and I see a rise. Here is only Munich, until a few years ago, in 2014, there were about 40,000 Croats, and now it's over 70 thousand. Many people, our people who go upstairs, pay 500 euros for the bed only. A lot of people who don't get along, who don't have anybody up there. Just the bed, the bed. Tens of them lie where there should be two beds, 10 beds upstairs. I've been with these people and they're doing the hardest jobs. Until domestic production is encouraged in Croatia. I can't believe the apple can't be sold from Skrabinje, while then the biggest apple imports to the Republic of Croatia. And here we boast about these things. With how we call people, how the budget is, how GDP is,... All growing, but growing, my dear import and growing number of emigrated, although Croatia is a beautiful country and I believe the time will come that these people will return to our homeland, where orchards will be processed in flat wheels and in Zagora where agricultural land will be processed, where we will not import baker's products because we are not paid to produce grain, but to export grain, and profit goes to those importers from foreign countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see any reason why the government doesn't say it out loud, here's just for these things, teleoperators, how much they're pulling out, billions. Banks, billions, import lobbys, pests of Croatian society billions. And no one's doing anything to the eight praises of the minister. Also in shipbuilding, the state review has been saying for years that billions of subsidize and support are being given to shipbuilding, and here I am talking about the Split shipyard. To encourage shipbuilding, however, the fact is, there was no incentive for shipbuilding. The Split shipyard did not encourage shipbuilding, and we have universities that are tailored to shipbuilding, so where will it now work if shipbuilding fails, where is the work of those who have completed those studies that are related to shipbuilding. In third countries. I believe that we have space, we believe that these resources, only that I have listed, are from where billions are milked to the harm of the Republic of Croatia that they can sleep and I trust the ministers that they can raise their salaries to teachers and doctors. But I can't accept that they've only been hired by the last 2700 people in the public administration. Both in the county and at local levels. And that's why teachers, doctors, and others can't, they get paid, and that's why they're right. Let's pay those who work and serve this system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105391	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105392	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the Honored Ministers with Associates, of course to support, above all, the amendments and additions to the 2018 budget and to commend the work of the Ministry in the section relating to the quality assessment of the State budget's revenue and expenditure side and, in particular, the projections made on the basis of which the State budget was made for this and last year. During the morning, we discussed the implementation of the budget for last year and we see that in the projected GDP growth for 2017, this projected growth and achieved what further keeps me convinced that this government, this ministry, and how well it is well managed by public finances, and this management of public finances is based on accurate projected main economic indicators, which then clearly reflect, as a result, in public finances, and above all on the revenue and then on the expenditure side of the State budget. So this 2018 growth projection that is recorded here and envisaged and based on which these changes in the budget of 2.7% do not doubt at all whether we will be implemented even though we are at the end of the year, so maybe that fact gives us a simpler opportunity to assess it more accurately, but I don't doubt that this growth will be such or possibly possibly possibly, possibly even greater. What I would say before I say something about budget changes and additions, I would say that this year in which we find that incomes grow by 144 million kuna to cut expenditures has been an extremely challenging year and that it has not been to manage the processes in this year then this budget rebalance could have been quite serious, much more demanding and would have brought the ministry and the government into a very unpleasant situation. In fact, we this year, which has practically been here for 10 and a half months behind us, have witnessed through the implementation of the law on state administration, the signing of a settlement in this process has become also a powerful one, and so I would say the danger that was, the potential danger that was for the State budget is now somewhere behind us, on the other hand it has also been marked with a constant effort by the government to work on the problem of the Uljanik group, i.e. the Oil Group and 3 May, we know that 710 million kuna have been approved at the beginning of the year to pay salaries in the group's own system. Two more guarantees for payouts were later given. It was also marked with efforts and arrangements and for the structure of Petrokemia, it was all the time marked by the adoption of reforms, primarily tax reform, and then clearly pension reforms, so this whole time these results that I initially cited did not fall from the sky. They are the result of the fact that the government has prevented these events, which could have had a negative impact on macroeconomic indicators in Croatia, and thus today we are in a situation that this is almost technical rebalancing. It would be really technical if we didn't have, if we weren't threatened by activation, quite realistic looking, the activation of guarantees given to the Oil Group, which is about 2 billion kuna and 600 million kuna, so that the position from the aspect of the government's work indicator, with the aspect of public finances management, would result in more where and where more surplus than we recorded it, than we did last year when it was achieved at the height of $3.1 billion. So that's what I wanted to say in general, which is why I support these changes and additions to the budget, because I say above all they talk about this capacity of the government to manage processes in Croatia that were not small, which were.../incomprehensible/... were an extremely large challenge. And even before I specifically point out a few things, I would certainly like to make sure that the government budget expenditure is reduced in the interest position, interest expenditure of around 750, 100 million euros, which is also a major savings result again in the past two years of good business, good macroeconomic indicators, GDP growth of public debt cuts, etc. or good and quality management of public finances. What I would particularly single out and what I support is the added insurance of around 405 million kuna for healthcare, and then for hospitals, I would specifically refer to the county hospitals or my Dubrovnik hospital from which I come from my county, where we clearly expect that funds and costs and other hospitals, but clearly I am now specifically talking about the Dubrovnik hospital are being provided for its normal functioning and I think that these additional resources along with the health system will allow certain specificities that are for the operation and management of the Dubrovnik hospital, given its location and the additional costs it has are certainly justified and I believe that the Ministry of Health is also in these 403 or 405 additional million kunas and that it has respected the specific additional requirements of the Dubrovnik hospital. I would also single out a special increase in funds.../incomprehensible/... and allow a new investment cycle to all county road administrations but what I don't think is good when we talk about the plan of the Croatian Roads, which is a reduction in resources in the positions of the state-owned island programme, so there is a reduction of around 25-30% of the funding for the state programme because some projects may be implemented, but I think that the starting category for the use of funds and the purpose of the island-based, island-based programme should not be an entry category for next year, since I know that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure has very large projects on the transport of Croatian islands by building new ports and these new ports in accordance with the law must be connected with the state funds, and then that fact will be very sensitive in the financial plan of the Croatian roads, so that these ports will be built, not only by means of the key infrastructures, but also the central part of the Croatian ports, which will be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to use the infrastructures in the key infrastructures in the infrastructures in the infrastructures of the infrastructures in the water of the water of the water, in the water of the water, and the water, and the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water, and the waterways, and the waterways of the waterways of the water in the water of the water in the water of the water of the water in the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water of the water. So, in any case, I support the changes and the additions to the budget, they suggest that the government entered well a year ago in projecting the 2018 budget, I say, technical changes, almost could have happened without the state budget that we didn't have this structural change that would be conditioned by the position of the Oilers and I'm saying, I think that the allocation of funds is going towards a new fostering economic development in Croatia. And lastly, I will especially single out an increase in funds in the position of subsidized loans, which allow many young families in Croatia to resolve the housing issue, for example this year in the 9th month. We have witnessed the fact that, on the basis of this project, some 3,000 new young families have resolved the housing issue with significant resources to be allocated from the state budget, so in any event I support the changes and additions of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105393	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105394	Dear Representative Bacic, I'd like to ask you a question. In fact, we all know that the current financial system in the West, and thus in Croatia, works in a way that the new one is created exclusively through credit, which means that all the money that was ever created was created, created in the form of a debt. This debt is being charged interest, however the interest money has never been created, it's only the principal of the loan that I'm interested in since the interest payment money doesn't exist, that actually the amount of the debt is greater than the total amount of money that exists, how do you plan to repay the total debt, means the interest capital if, as I said, the interest payment money doesn't even exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105395	The esteemed representative Bačić will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pernar, I said that the reduced expenditure on the interest which is actually the expenditure of the state budget, namely the loan that is raised does not cost and the expenditure side of the state budget but only costs are interest and it is reduced by 100 million euros and 744 million kuna respectively, if I remember this data well. Otherwise, I never run away from additional borrowing by the Republic of Croatia or any other country if this borrowing is directed not at the current business of the State as it was during the Government of the SDP, but if this borrowing is taken for certain projects that then encourage the economy, build infrastructure, basic transport or energy infrastructure, which is the infrastructure of the country's driver, therefore should not run from borrowing if it is intended for economic development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105397	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105398	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My friend, you were talking about good indicators, you commended the Ministry or the Minister about this budget rebalancing and you said that there were no these guarantees related to the Uljanik, that this would actually be a technical budget and that actually these indicators talk about how well and quality the Ministry of Finance works. Not only these indicators, but also certain expert analyses done by the Ministry of Finance, say that they are well in control of this problem and that in 2018, in the first round of tax laws there was resistance both from opposition and from writing certain media in the Republic of Croatia that actually welcomed people from the Ministry of Finance, their courage and determination but also from political will, we have actually received excellent results not to talk about GDP, economic growth and retail trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105399	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Babić, yes, I said that there was not one position around the Oils that it would practically not be a technical budget but a technical change of budget and that it would be possible to regulate itself by redistributing funds within the portfolio. And I agree on that, my colleague Schuker spoke this morning, so first of all, tax reforms, first two rounds, and hopefully the running round of tax reform will contribute to further GDP growth, i.e. will be in the role of GDP growth, redundancies of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs. However, it is true what you said, we testified that at the same time when tax reforms were being made, that the opposition required further reduction, or further discharge of Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs, and at the same time, through the budget they asked for the state to be more generous so that one of them did not agree with each other and on this trail was... The credibility of the opposition, but that's why they're in opposition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105401	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105402	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bačić, I think that, you noticed, means that at island and island policy level something is shrinking, but it should certainly be said that the Ministry of Regional Development finally knows after a few years when we have achieved 400 million kuna, we have an increase of 40 million, which clearly says that this ministry finally agreed that it can now be more concrete and better implemented regional policy by making it possible for us at the Ministry to record 18 million kn more for lunch administrations. So we see that when we have one body between the state and the local self-government or just local self-government and regional self-government, that in some ways the funds are more easily realised and this is a good guideline for the budget, it means for 2019, with that reduction being recorded on that fund for capital projects on the islands, which in itself in this year practically shuts down and next year it remains 20 million kn from that fund, those 16% that we had that tax on income. And of course, a request to the commissioners to make as much money as possible by the end of the year, because after that, they won't be able to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105403	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Boric, if I hadn't said the end, namely when we talk about this particular problem then we can't forget that in Hvar there was a meeting of the government, where 49 projects were listed, and of the 49 projects the largest part was the participation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, where numerous county and local roads along this island programme were financed directly by the Ministry's funds. So we testified there that a total of this cake is if we're going to call it the 49 government projects on Hvar through them provided an added €5.5 billion over a certain period of funding from the exact program. It was road construction, it was water supply, whether it was energy disposal, environmental protection, waste management, etc. etc. So I didn't finish that part, and I thank you for letting me do it specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105405	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovirovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected finance ministers with associates, respected citizens who follow us. At the very end of the day, I would like to say that the party will change Croatia, will not support the draft budget of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. these governments for 2019, and I will state the arguments for that. Why won't we support this kind of proposal for a state budget? Because he's unrealistic. What is unrealistic in that budget? Unreal revenues are unrealistic revenues, but there's something that's real, and there's something that happens every year that's real and that's real, and that's an increase in expenditure. Therefore, here are the expenditures, very well known, therefore the expenditures here are very well known, real, but the revenues are unrealistic. What's in income unreal? It is assumed that the GDP growth rate will be 3%, that the EU will function as it has worked so far, means it is in good shape, and we see that there is a trade war and there are major problems. On the other hand, more and more of our people are moving out, which prevents the achievement of the outlined GDP and much more. According to the kind of economic policy that has been implemented in Croatia for years, we cannot achieve a GDP growth rate greater than 3% to turn upside down, we can never do that, and 3% must grow just to be able to repay interest on government debt. So the citizens of Croatia, all the workers, work together, we work together only to be able to pay interest on the debts of the state. Dear citizens, do you agree to such economic policy? I'm sure you don't want to support such people, who promise you, who boast that 2.6% is a top-notch thing, all mouth-to-mouth. How much was spent on the media alone on P.R. that the last weeks or months have created a picture that she really isn't. So let's talk about these successes and growth rates. Let's give the data, because we economists rely on arguments, not impressions, or somebody's boss from this party or that party, suggestions, say this and don't say that. According to official data, statistics mean IMF, World Bank, etc. Croatia grew from 1990 to the end of 2017 cumulatively from 19%. I repeat, in 27 years, Croatia achieved a cumulative GDP growth of only 19%, which is an average annual of 0.7%. The growth of 0.7% can be said annually, that there is no growth. During that time, in those 27 years, one Poland has made a cumulative GDP growth rate of almost 140%, the Czech Republic about 90% and other countries feel more than we do. We today, respected ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens, Croatia today, according to economic and living standards, has in the EU, the status that once in the former Yugoslavia had Kosovo, this status today only has Croatia and Bulgaria. So, in 5 years in the EU, we have not made progress and we have far more damage than benefits. Not so much for them, but for the incompetent political structures that led and destroyed this country. You see, the total expenditure, let's now talk about the budget, the total expenditure in 2017 was 125 billion, in 2018. 133 billion, they say, will be 140 billion. So here you see expenditure already planned and we will have a deficit projected around 4 billion kn and we know in advance that this will increase Croatia's public debt by the next 4 billion kn. So I'm asking you here, if you're a successful government, so why did you plan these, in the next year's deficit, higher income expenditures. So if it's such a good state of public finances and the total economy, then you could say if it's not going to grow in 2019, it's going to stay at the level as it was in 2018. So please don't diminish the public, if we're talking, professionally face-to-face and before the people who chose us here. In this context, what I want to point out is how is it that you didn't plan to, say, win the CNB? Because every central bank earns the same profit it sometimes moves in hundreds of millions of kunas, sometimes in billions, but gentlemen that institution has made over the past year and a half 3 billion 800 million losses, it is the biggest loser in Croatia in such a short time. Imagine that she made a profit half that big, let's say, of 900 million kuna and that 50% of it came into the state budget, that's almost 1 billion kuna. So you know how much help health care, education, etc. could be, but you don't talk about it for you is normal you like huge losses and you leave people who do it, why, because the Prime Minister is eligible for the EURO project supported by the Croatian National Bank in order to achieve some of his interests and damage the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens. In this context, the fastest-growing item in the expenditures of the State budget is absolutely expenditure on government debt interest, I keep talking about it in the assembly, in public I won't get tired of talking about it. I'm going to press you from all sides, in that sense, that interest on the annual level is about 10 billion kuna, you've saved something, 700-800 million, a billion in that I see and contribute my own because I'm not letting you go and I'm not letting you go, but instead of billions you can save 5 billion, I've been telling you for three years, you don't want to. I'm asking you again, why don't you cut the cost of interest on the government debt by 5 billion kuna? So do you know what can be done with savings at an annual level of 5 billion kunas, so you can increase the salary cumulatively on average to all pensioners per 4,000 kunas per year, we can do a good job in health care, we can increase the funding of education, we pay for interest rates of 10 billion kuna, that's twice the budget of the Ministry of Defence, so you are aware of that. Well, dear God can't make as much money here as it takes to fill the pockets of banks and trust fund managers. I want to and I don't want to live in this country to pay for the unsuspecting, harmful interest that you, without speaking, put in the pockets of banks and trust managers. It's not the purpose of living in this country, and dear citizens, so you can see that we have a simple problem, we've been having discussions here for hours, but it's not a key item of expenditure, it's interest on loans and issued bonds. Party Change Croatia invites all citizens to simply solve this problem, you see that we have a solution, there are honest, honest, professional people in this country enough. In the first year when we come to power to serve you, we will immediately reduce 5 billion kuna expenditures of the State budget on the burden of interest to banks and fund managers, increase pensions, reduce health dues, increase education funding, etc. So, we know what to do, but as we're going to do, many of you when they talk, when I talk to you, there's nothing you can do, so you see these people are sitting down, so you can't take them off, and I'm telling you only one thing that I've figured out here in the politics of 800 thousand good people, the valuables sitting at home don't go to elections, it just takes us to encourage them to at least 400 thousand of them to go to elections, that's not hard, so let's get rid of this drama. Let's not let them ruin us that our kids have to run outside, we know how to solve this problem, and when you give us your votes, you'll see in the first year what we're going to do, you'll be amazed what can be done in a year. But we won't be able to do anything if we leave the state as it is, so I invite you to go to the elections to make that effort make sense, your individual voice is really nothing, but 800,000 times 1 is 800,000 no party in Croatia's history has that much support in the elections, and then we will give Croatia a thorough window. The prerequisite is therefore, you see that you have given up speaking beyond certain facts and some arguments because the message is most important, here you need a political will to make a fairer budget, more developed, better for our citizens, he is not that, this is just eye caressing. The right people have yet to come to serve the Croatian people and get us out of this bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105407	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105408	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović, here you are talking about the need for more GDP growth, we had, for example, the Romanian case in 3th quarter of 2017 8.8% means some countries which were the notion of lagging back yesterday compared to Croatia today are called the tiger of Eastern Europe, essentially the entire EU. The HDZ has certainly pledged GDP growth in the 4-year term of 5%, and we see that, according to new projections, this growth is now 2.2%. How did such a lack of proportion occur in the promise of realisation? Has HDZ not had good information in 2016 or has something seriously gone wrong in the last 2 years? I would be more prone to this other solution if it were a bad thing, so that's why the growth rate decreased by about 60% than the one that was forecasted, or it was just a simple voter scam to get votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105409	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105410	Comrade Bunjac, I have already said in the presentation, we agree that Croatia cannot grow along with this model of economic policy to turn this government upside down more than 2.5-3%. And these are amazing data, but look at me earlier I was saying, here's another interesting thing. Why are we getting an increase in VAT? In 2009, the crisis had already occurred, the burden of interest on government debt increased from 4 6.6 billion to 10 billion today and then VAT had to rise from 22% to 23% in 2010, and then when it was impossible to serve that much interest then in 2012, VAT increased again from 23% to 25%, so we can't cut taxes, you understand. On all sides, we're in debt, we're ruined, and then we have to pay the bloody debt through the growth of taxes and excise duties. We have to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105411	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105412	Dear Representative Lovrinović, I asked Mr. Bačić if it was possible to repay the loans if, as I said, all the money was created as a loan, and the money for the payment of interest was never created. It's a serious question, why?, because the total debt of all the countries in the world, i.e. all the people and businesses in the world, is much bigger than the total amount of money that these debts could repay, or loans, and therefore, please respond, as a financial expert, a doctor of science, a professor at the Faculty of Economics that deals with, meaning, monetary policy, to answer the question, are debts, in theory, payable, such as the debt of our country, and if not, what is the meaning of this policy of infinite borrowing and the sale of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105413	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105414	Well, colleague Pernar, the answers already exist in the CNB statistical reports, the State Statistics Office, so we see that we barely pay interest you understand, there's no speech here about the principal, all of our principals are still in debt. Therefore, the public debt is already around 280-290 billion kuna, and we are tormented that we are only paying interest to understand, therefore, where there is no high growth above 5%, 7%, that is thus repayable. On the other hand, as this government represents a real surplus, you can see from 2014 to 2017, the state has not paid farmers a cumulatively 3.5 billion kuna according to its commitments to the European Union, as much as they pay, so much as the Croatian state. The Croatian state did not pay 3.5 billion, and then it's easy to talk, you see, we fix expenditure revenues, we go into balance, and last year alone, the Ministry of Agriculture returned, imagine the budget, 400 million kuna because it did not want to pay the farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105415	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105416	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. ... Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. [[/The speaker didn't turn on and you can't hear it.]] So listening to these debates today, especially debates on behalf of the Club where people who have played a very significant role in previous governments have to be surprised, because if you claim that something so terrible is wrong, then it would be logical to offer something new, something good and to discuss it. However, looking at the implementation of the budget for the first six months, looking at this rebalancing proposal, then I ask myself one question, did the reforms proposed by the Ministry of Finance in the past two years have yielded results? I say they are, and you can see that, you can simply see it in the revenue side of the budget. You can see in the revenue side of the budget. Today, the minister has said several times that he has rerouted the full income tax to local self-government units. See income from income tax, zero. But what did he do with that income tax amendment? One large part of the income was left to Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens have spent it normally and this is seen through some of the following items on the revenue side of the budget. Also, regardless of the increased economic activity, when you look at the income from profit tax, then you will see that the tax effect is on, that the tax on profits is reduced from 20% to 12% for small and medium-sized enterprises, to 18% for large businesses, shown in the revenue side of the budget, because sometimes this amount with a far higher tax burden was higher. So that effect has been achieved. Also, what is the fact that the complete tax system of the Republic of Croatia, the revenue side is gently directed towards these indirect or so-called consumer taxes, which is in a certain way and logically, given the excellent tourist season, the great arrival of foreign tourists in the Republic of Croatia and with this basis increased consumption, and ultimately when you look at the income from these special taxes... It's about 68 billion kuna, practically over 60% of the total revenues of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What leaves definitely a reserve for the next tax discharges, for larger investments, and that means greater economic growth, is the use of EU funds. But it's not just the government, it's units of local regional self-government, it's individuals, it's entrepreneurs, so everybody, synchronised if they use those funds, then we can talk about a different and tax burden, and this position on the revenue side of the budget, it's going to look quite different. It's just facts you can't escape from. We can attack each other one way or another, but the revenue side of the budget is pretty close, it's what it is. And as for the budget spending party, it has simply opened up some structural issues that have been discussed in the government in this high house for years. No matter what political option was headed by the state. See in principle why this budget rebalance was made? Well, just for two expenses, because this is all a technical change, so one is a health care aid, and finally, I'll talk about it later when I talk about the State Budget Implementation Act, and the other is the problem of state guarantees, their activation. And now we can talk, is, when we were, that was so, but the fact that shipbuilding is Croatia's structural problem since the beginning of all these years here. It is simply a problem that creates a huge commitment in the state budget and throughout the years, some 31 billion kunas have passed through shipbuilding. What should definitely be discussed once in this high home, which is real, includes the economic effect of shipbuilding, not only by looking at that ship and watching people as busy as it is in shipbuilding, directly, but by watching how directly people are working and bringing about shipbuilding and what is the real effect. Is it more or less effective than what's being invested in the state budget? Is this the strategic economic interest of the Republic of Croatia because we simply have to answer that, because if we do not respond, colleagues and colleagues, this is the next few years a structural problem, perhaps the most significant Croatian budget with the shipbuilding and restructuring of public enterprises, above all I mean the company from HZ holding. So, over the past years, there have been huge guarantees for these companies and if we are not ready to restructure them, they are the next explosion that can be a major effort by the government, a great effort by the Ministry of Finance that tends to fiscal consolidation, which tends towards the budget surplus, that we finally begin to pay back that public debt and that it is beginning to decrease but that we can say this year's surplus income over expenditures of 2 billion kuna will not be spent on the resolution of any structural problems from previous years, but we will reduce our public debt for that amount. It's just a fact. And he can say whatever anyone wants, but what's said here is, why don't you reprogram, then you need to see the law that's in charge, how and when you can reprogram. So imagine that the finance minister, not only his colleague Maric but also his predecessors, would not have reprogrammed a complete debt when less interest rates appeared. Therefore, these are simply things that are the way they are. Today when I talked about the implementation of the budget for 2017, then I touched the extra budget users and here in the budget rebalancing we have one rebalance of an extra budget user that is important and that is HZZO. And I repeat, regardless of what political option was at the head of Croatia, Croatian citizens always further resuscitate HZZO. And it was even a brilliant idea, if it were to separate itself from the treasure, everything would be wonderful and wonderful. However, what in Article 7 does not excuse, in the Law on Budgetary Implementation, where it is said that the Ministry of Health can provide funds to the counties and the counties can cover the costs of their hospitals whose founders are, this is a problem that has been raised since 2002. When the decentralisation Act was adopted and when these hospitals are practically owned by the counties, a major problem occurred. HZZO conducts prices and the funds have never been sufficient, and these are institutions that are cost-generating all these years, creating costs, honestly speaking, if we decentralize certain functions, if we don't decentralize the funds from which these functions will be financed, then we have what we have, so constant resolution of something that is constantly creating losses. Now the question is whether we're finally going around health care, and now I'm going back to this package, the third package of tax changes, the Law on Contributions, and it's proposed to give health an additional billion and 600 permanent sources of income by increasing the rate to 16.5%. But then logically, that healthcare makes one move on the spending side because if certain obligations can now be paid within 90 or 120 days not within 300 days, then the logical thing is that the products and services that are purchased or paid in such a way should be cheaped. No one's gonna give you anything for 300 days and they're not gonna charge you for it. The capital has its value, as we have here the cost of interest in the debt budget, and this supplier probably pays the funds, and in such a way, if the Ministry of Health makes an additional effort on the expenditure side, the Government, with the amendment of the Law on Contributions, has created a prerequisite for this position in terms of health both in the state budget and in the financial plan of the HZZO, not being a structural problem. And now, finally, let me touch one more thing, in the end, I have little time left, and that is the basis for the public service salary calculation is from 1.1.2018 6% higher than it was in 1.1.2017. It is a fact and I am glad that colleagues who were in some government before talk about an increase of 10% with 3% economic growth. And the second thing, in 2011, it wasn't chaos left behind, it was economic growth at 0 or -0.2%, and it wasn't chaos left behind. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we also support this implementation and this budget rebalance, and I say, the effects of tax policy are clearly seen on the revenue side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105417	Thank you very much. We have more replicas, the first respected representative of Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105418	Dear fellow Shuker, I listened carefully to you in your presentation, you said as far as the EU funds are concerned, everyone is late, all late, and units of local self-government and central state bodies, and that it is not just the government. The most late central state bodies, the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Science and means the central bodies most late and late because they mis and slowly publish calls. Entrepreneurs in priority axis 3 are the only ones who have used the entire allocation, so on today, they've used the whole allocation. And achieved their indicators. We have to be just when we talk about it. Local self-government units also have a number of problems with determining a million euros in investments because they actually made 30 per cent of the cost increase through public procurement procedures. Most of the late ministry of the administration in implementing public administration reform, only 11% of the funds contracted in digitalisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105419	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105420	My colleague Cikotic, I spoke of this position as a position that can generate a lot of positive things in the Republic of Croatia. And if you're reducing a position then the normal thing is that something happened that wasn't planned. But when I talk about this position, then I speak exclusively as a potential for Croatia. And as such, we must look at it. Because if we're going to view it as an instrument to attack each other, then we're not going to achieve what we need. And therefore, I even think that you in your discussions are discussing it that way. For me, it's this position, for me, perhaps the greatest potential in the budget. You get money that you can use for various things you can't finance from the budget or you have to borrow, and it's also a lot of jobs where a certain, above all construction operation will be very busy, it will automatically... economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because when you look at it, if once the generator of economic growth was building highways, and we invested between 5 and 6.5 billion kn annually, and here we open up the possibility of 14-15 billion a year, then you can think of what that should mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105421	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105422	A colleague, the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Shuker, you are wondering if the reforms have yielded results, these tax reforms, in fact simplified by this tax system, reform, have been taxed and citizens of businesses. That this is what the income side of this invention is saying and the addition of the state budget, which says there have been income taxes, income tax, or administrative fees. What he's saying is that business is also better for economic operators. In addition, the 129 billion kn revenue has been increased to €129.2 billion. So for some 144 million kn. I'm sorry that some colleagues, today in the debate, say that the minister emphasizes positive things, that they hide negative things. The state budget, i.e., you can't actually hide anything because you can see both the income and the expenditure side and everyone who is well-intentioned can interpret it nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105423	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105424	That my colleague Babic, you reminded me well of this part of the growth of the contribution, because I simply didn't get to say it, he also points to something, positive developments in the labour market and increased average salary. These are simply facts, because it is an increased number of employees and an increased salary is an increase in the first spread of the tax base, and on the other hand, in addition to the increase in the tax base, it is best seen on the contribution to pension insurance. Because these are facts, no matter what anyone says or says, because the pension insurance contribution is paid by everyone regardless of pay, while income tax is not the case. We said that practically somewhere in a million and 800, of the 2 million 800 of the 24 thousand is not in tax scissors. But in retirement contributions, all those who practically earn something, who receive something, pay a contribution, and these positive movements are definitely seen on the revenue side of the budget. And that's why I'm saying, the budget isn't some segment that you can rip out about it, but it's practically, when we talk about all the laws, then we're talking about the budget and we're talking about our own policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105425	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, often in your debate you insist or suggest that we be credible, or that when we are in opposition or when we are in power, and we talk about professional matters, we talk about state finances, we are always on the same track, but that is not the case, for example when it comes to SDP. Namely, counterpart Maras said this morning that he supports the union's strike for salary hikes, and that stands for 10%. And do you remember, and surely you remember, at that time you were the same parliamentary representative that in 2012, SDP refused to enter the union negotiations, to cut the base, and wanted to cut the salary, to reduce 3% in the coefficient, to all employees, and thus to someone from 3% to gross, to someone cut more than 3%. So that's what you're looking at, one of their announcements, how they're going to support the union in the context of what was before mr.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105427	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105428	Thank you, colleague Bačić, and not only that, neo and the statement that they found him in a chaotic state, they found the state practically that was heading towards economic recovery, they produced 1.8% of GDP in the first year and the logical thing that they had to cut salaries because they came to a deficit of 15 billion kn and that did not make it a deficit would explode. But I don't think people, doctors, don't trust them first and teachers don't believe them. Because when they didn't have the courage to publicly reduce the base, they were what they could, so quietly to some rules, i.e. To reduce the coefficients, then unfortunately happened what happened, that some wages were reduced by 600 or 700 kn. What the minister and this government have offered is an increase of 3%. This is the real result of the economic movement. Because if you have an economic growth of 2.8 2.9 then it's logical that some expenditures can grow to that level, but you take the growth of last year of 3% actually 6%, so you sell 3 to those 6%, so you'll see it all together when you add it up in 2 years is a salary increase of almost 10%, and since the base is increased at the end of the year and this is basically a year's growth of 10%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105429	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105430	Thank you very much, counsel Shuker, namely, this claim of yours has been raised by 6% of the salary to state officials, it's only returned what the government of Ivo Sanader took away in 2009. So it doesn't make sense that if you pay back something you call it a pay raise. After that, you signed an agreement three times to return it, and you returned it nine years later, and now you call it a raise. So I steal from you first, then I pay you back, and it's like a reward. I remind you that in 2009, you also took Christmas cards and regresses, that for a time you did not pay severance fees, that you had frozen salaries, that therefore, public officials were carrying the maximum savings burden in the budget due to the recession, etc. And now that you've given them back their rights after nine years, now you say, we've increased your wages, it's clean... Statistics, that doesn't make sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're going to increase when you increase from 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105431	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105432	Look, pal Bunjac, I wish you were an entrepreneur and you dropped production 10% and you paid your workers the same salary. The state is an employer here. The state's revenues dropped almost 10% in 2009... Mr. Pernar, well, you'll probably say it's my fault, too, for the global financial and economic crisis. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Comrade Pernar, do not yell from the bench.]] But most importantly, counterpart Pernar and counterpart Bunjac, the Croatian state is the first to issue bonds on the US market in 2009. Well, there were a lot of them that year. neither pay nor pensions were one day late, and that is a fact. And those of you who didn't participate in all this together, you're the one who criticized the most. I know, but if we were in the Ministry of Finance for a month and had to settle all these obligations, we'd never argue like we're discussing. I respect every debate, and so does yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105433	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105434	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague Shuker, a few questions. How do you describe that Croatia will pay from 2014 to 2020, 5.5 billion euros in the EU? How do you describe that we could have withdrawn 10.9 billion, so far we've withdrawn 900 million, 900 million, and not 9% of what we planned? How do you describe that to tell the income that they fell 10 years ago? Well, there were supposed to be much bigger walks. How do you describe or how do you interpret teleoperators in Croatia earn twice as much as they earn in countries where they come from or from the EU? How do you describe them having a much higher profit bank through fees and taxes, 4 billion kuna a year? How do you describe that agriculture, we invest as a subsidy and the decline of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia, only this year we import more, 300m euros in the first half of this year? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105435	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105436	Comrade Bulj, I haven't talked about these squadrons of yours at all, the other thing, these are things that can't be described, these are things that can be answered specifically. But I'm saying, I haven't talked about these squadrons of yours at all. To talk about what you've been talking about, then it would take me half an hour to elaborate it all because what you've listed simply has nothing to do with the connection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105437	My colleague Bulj has broken the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105438	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Article 238 was injured because my colleague Shucker insulted that I was talking about what doesn't matter, and I was telling the truth and the fact that you, among others, enjoyed as well as all teleopers and banks and import lobbys in agriculture, you enjoyed, all of you who participated in the government. You've all guessed. You're vermin, how can you not understand? [[Intruder Reiner: So...]] That the Croatian state, 2/3 are empty [[Intruder Reiner: Like this...]] Only because of your policy [[Invader Reiner: colleague Bulj...]] I've told the facts [[Intruder Reiner: You're out of time.]] And everything I said relates to what I said. [[Intruder Reiner: Please stop.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105439	Please, stop abuse, first, abuse the time you've exceeded and second, the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know, the Rules of Procedure is not hurt by anything and in any way, therefore, don't do it. I'm asking you nicely. Before we move on to the next speaker, I have one,... Please, please, let's not throw it out of the bench. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Next thing you know, I'd like to tell you before we move on. We have some changes in Wednesday's schedule. So on Wednesday, we'll start working so that at 9:30 we can first declare the amendments to the tax code package. There will then be two points, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rental and Purchase of Commercial Space, Second Reading and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Central Register of State Property, second reading. Then there will be a vote on the debated points at 12 o'clock and if we fail to absorb these points at 1st and 2nd in the morning, then we will continue after the vote and after the free speech on them but for the longest time we can be here by 17 o'clock because the hall has to prepare for an international conference that will be on 22 and 23 November. Here it is, so we know how to schedule our time for Wednesday. And now we're going back to our topic, so I'm going to give a word to the individual debate of Honorable Representative Peggy Grbino, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105440	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives. I'm going to have to start a little different from what I thought, and I'm going to have to start with a previous debate. Comrade Shuker, you really are not to blame for the global economic crisis and no one is going to put that on your nose. But as Minister of Finance since the end of 2003 and in early 2004, you are largely responsible for the crisis in Croatia and you are particularly responsible for the 2009 budget, which focused primarily on local elections and which, along with the denial there, is that Croatia is in crisis, very soon after these local elections, also came to collect and probably also culminate in that fall, as much as you mentioned. You boast about the issue of bonds on the US market of 6.5% while at the same time Lithuania, which was in the same crisis as Croatia, has achieved an interest rate of 4.75% on another market that analysts told you at the time, which you can find very easy using Google but well, if I lie, Reuters can't stop you or anyone else. But I will return to 218, in my opening replica of the presentation of the Honorable Mr. Minister, I pointed to a lagging of the Republic of Croatia in economic growth on transition countries. And Mr. Minister warned me that indeed Croatia grew slower than the countries I mentioned, such as Slovenia, Poland or Romania, but that there are others that grow slower than Croatia. I was free to check EUROSTAT's data and I found that out of the transition countries, less than 3% in the second quarter of this year, she had the Czech Republic. Indeed, it had slightly smaller growth than Croatia, but unlike Croatia, in the fourth quarter of 2017 and in the first quarter of 2018, the Czech Republic grew at a rate greater than 4%. Croatia is currently growing the slowest of all transition countries. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are behind others. And we can pet our eyes to do some kind of reform, but that's not true. A few days ago, we could hear that out of 159 planned reforms in the National Programme that we ourselves have brought, which we ourselves brought to the European Commission, 32 reforms were carried out. In the half-year of 159, 32's were spent, or only 20%. When we discussed tax laws last week, you showed them as a solution to our problems, you portrayed them as a way to attract investors and 'who knows what they don't. I have then shown you on a very simple and close example of the neighbouring Slovenia, that your claims are simply not true, both from the Government and you from the ruling majority in the Parliament. Slovenia has far greater tax burden than the Republic of Croatia in all economic indicators, stands better than us, and grows faster, and grows more successful. But why? Because unlike the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia is conducting reforms, and today I listen all day to what you say, not in 2017, not now in 2018, there is not even a letter of r, it is only status quo, only status quo. And in fact, when you look deep into yourself, you'll realize that's the way it is. And one of the best indicators is that, until now announced strike of public service, there were no more serious protests in Croatia. And there's no more serious protest when there's nothing to do. More serious protests only come when you try to step on someone, on someone's rights or so on, you haven't tried it because it's a great way to stay in power in Croatia. Don't do anything, don't bother anyone, milk the last lip of tourism and you'll stay in power forever. And the fact that Croatia is stagnating at the same time, not to say decline, who cares, who cares anyway can go outside. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this rebalance, and the 2019 budget, are actually continuing such a policy, and we are not going any further, we are doing nothing and I am afraid that with this policy, Croatia will no longer be the last member state of the European Union, but will soon become the last one. Of course, what I'm saying to you doesn't mean anything, but it's my duty to say it, just as it is my obligation to talk about some concrete indicators, which are in the proposal for budget rebalancing for 2018. For example, I could commend you for increasing your funding for the University of Pula for some 2, like, 2-5 million kunas, I could commend you if I hadn't amended the budget for this last year, when you asked me, not just me, but a few other colleagues who asked me to do so, to blow me off coldly. And they said it wasn't necessary. Everything we asked for with the amendment, you had to put it in the budget now. If you want our education to progress, if you want us to provide our students with conditions, then you have to enable our universities, enable among other things, and invest. And that doesn't work without money. The next thing I know, I'm very much stuck with my eye, and I'm sure even the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, because of his profession, it won't be nice, is an item relating to the General Hospital in Pula, which reduces the amount of $12.5 million to invest in health infrastructure. But perhaps most in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, the General Hospital in Pula, is not as important as I am from Pula, but it will be an important second data, which is to invest in health infrastructure at the level of the entire Republic of Croatia in this rebalancing by 215 million kuna. I looked at not only the budget, but also its explanation, but with all due respect there I found not a single sentence, not a single word, and you did not say it today, which is why investments in health infrastructure at the level of the Republic of Croatia are shrinking by 215 million kuna. That you will forgive me, much more than the technical amendment he was talking about, that is, by my predecessors from HDZ. And finally, a single cartoon, here's my colleague Kleman, I believe the minister won't answer me, but I would ask my colleague Kleman to explain this to me, because it was completely unclear to me, and it was something that was extremely important to him, is one item in the programme, the pre-election programme of the Croatian Democratic Community, from 2016. It may be a little bit stuck to your ear slogan, which was in that program, which reads: “With the CRO card, rest is available to everyone.” CRO cards was one project launched by then by the Minister of Tourism, Mr Kleman, who was subsequently continued by Mr Cappelli, who, after taking over the duty, which was supposed to encourage the development of Croatian tourism, I then had a series of remarks on it, but I hold it, that part of these remarks could be corrected. However, while the ministry of tourism boasted with a cro card several months ago in the budget rebalancing, all the funds were deleted in that item. And the cro card has been two and a half years since the presentation, after it has virtually taken a very prominent place in the programme until even one slogan to which HDZ has been advertised has been drawn up on the basis of this cro card. Cro card's gone now. And for the development of the cro card zero is foreseen. Now, if you can't explain to me why the hospitals lost 215 million kuna, why exactly the General Hospital in Pula lost $12.5 million to investing in the health infrastructure that we're investing in, we'll agree for sure, we need it, then I hope that something as simple as a cro card, you can explain to me that you can tell me why she's gone and why, after you've been boasting so much about her, after you've developed her now on the same, not to insist, but to completely erase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105441	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105442	Thank you very much. Comrade Grbin, I don't understand why your personal calling some frustration, but it's probably because of the SDP situation. For truth's sake, however, I would tell you that a month before the 2009 local elections, a budget rebalance was made when wages and pensions were cut 6 million, 6%, and that was the only budget reduction that was 9 billion in the past 20 years, that's a fact. Second thing, you said no one said there was going to be a crisis. So do you think if someone increases security savings, isn't that a sign that something's going on? What we were supposed to do on the Republic of Croatia and yell at people who were running away is going to be a crisis, so we could panic, and then the banking sector would fall, then we'd see where it would go. As an opposition, you could yell and that's your problem. But fellow coat of arms, if I start calling you... for many of the legal things you've done here in this House in a very strange way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just remember the Law on selecting MPs in HS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105443	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, freely, it's part of parliamentary democracy. If I was doing something wrong, I'm asking you to say it. That's how you allow me, if I'm really wrong, to correct my mistake, not to just throw some kind of semi-information or something. While I was arguing, you were yelling at me from the bench, so I'm going to think of it as a replica in a broader sense of that word, so I'm going to answer you for what you said to me. These conditions of duty for us are currently the best we can achieve, that was your claim. But on the other hand, Hrvoje Stojic, an analyst with Hypo Bank, reminded that Lithuania recently issued bonds with a maturity of 5 years and at an interest rate of 4.75%. So what you're telling me is that I'm lying is the information that was published in the daily press at the time that you achieved that assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105445	Thank you. The Honorable Representative Shuker has raised.../Speakers speak at the same time/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105446	Injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238. Comrade coat of arms, when you compare two things, then you have to bring them down to the same thing. What was the maturity of the Lithuania bond, which was the manual of the Republic of Croatia's bonds. Therefore, if you are entering certain areas then at least inform yourself and attack people and have arguments, but it is not my fault that you simply do not know where you are in the SDP or somewhere in the heavens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105447	Your Honor, counsel Shuker, and you know that you have abused the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I ask you not to do so. Did I warn you? When I warn you, then I'll warn him, and don't teach me how to lead the session. That's what I'm telling you one more time. Therefore, this one, I ask all of us to stick to order and not to abuse certain institutions of the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105448	Thank you very much, Vice President. I'm glad you finally realized the value of that cro card project, and in any case I still think it's a valuable project and I'm glad that the Croatian government put it into its economic programme. In any case, what I am able to communicate with the Ministry, with my colleagues from the Ministry and with the Minister himself, is that what I have is that this project is still going on, not through this budget, but through the 2020 budget, and I am glad to see it. I believe it is a project that can certainly bring about a good economic effect and I am sorry in any case that it has not been implemented before, but in any case it is never too late and I think that the implementation and implementation of this project will only benefit the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105449	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105450	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow, when you first went public with the cro card program, I also spoke to you publicly, and I sent you materials related to it because I pointed out to you the difficulty of performance in view of the practice of the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, which similar to the programme in Hungary, has been lifted. I personally don't mind encouraging Croatian citizens and allowing Croatian citizens to fly or to go and use catering services under more favourable conditions in the Republic of Croatia. However, since we are discussing how best to implement this project, we have now come to the situation that zero, zero kuna is foreseen in the RS budget, and this means that nothing will be done in 2018 on this issue, and that means that it can't be completed in 2019 either. And I'm afraid not even in 2020. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105451	Thank you very much. The following individual debates by distinguished representative Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105452	Thank you, Vice President. Here's to look back, so, on the implementation of the 2018 budget, with an emphasis, it means on 2018 that I don't go as colleagues very far. So what I'd like to stress is that we have an annual GDP growth of 2.7%, and as far as income is concerned, predicting an increase of 144 million kuna means from 129 billion to 129.2 billion kuna, mostly in incomes, tax revenues, why, because we have positive economic movements, so we have VAT growth 3.1%, better business of economic operators, means 1.3% of the higher income of income tax. It also means we have positive movements on the labour market 1.3%, means more income from contributions, and that's what it clearly shows us n all of these movements that we talked about in 2017 and we talk about 2018. We have a reduction in planned aid revenues, as counterpart Peja Grbin mentioned in the General Hospital in Pula, so we have a General Hospital in Rijeka where it was clearly explained on the Committee on Finance that these items were reduced and not budgeted, it is a delay in public procurement and late implementation of these projects. As for the expenditure, they decrease by 1.6 billion kuna to 131.7. What we can also point out here is that we have a reduction in non-financial assets, which is not good because we see the same as how slower use and implementation of EU projects in the positions of nature parks, which we definitely need to speed up. But what is positive, these are the savings with which additional resources were provided, for the health care system 405.3 million kuna, also for pensions were provided with 269.2 million kuna, compensation for people with disabilities 104.5 million kuna, and as foreseen by the new legal proposals, additional funds were provided through savings for maternity leave of €92.9 million. What is also good is that subsidies grow, meaning for €113.9 million on as much as €6.7 billion, and this is the most relevant to the measures of the Rural Development Programme but also to policies to encourage HZZZ employment as well as to invest in rail passenger transport. And most importantly, the deficit in the general government's budget is 0.1%, which is even 0.8% less than it was planned. When the proposal was put forward, I reiterate that it was considered unrealistic because we had to face the crisis in Agrokor, and now we are facing the crisis in Ulanik and even the lack of the general government budget is shrinking by 0.8% as planned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105453	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be those respected representatives of Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105454	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. This morning we could first hear and discuss on the subject of budget implementation for 2017 and now we have a joint discussion on the half-year report and budget rebalancing. In each of these items, however, we can say a lot of criticism or praise, but in order to discuss it realistically, we have to look at each of these items within all these 3 documents, and I would say before. In fact, if we're just saying that today's budget rebalance is going to cut expenditures by 1.6 billion kuna, we need to know which items we're going to increase. Let us remember that today the biggest critics of this rebalancing obviously forgot that during their rebalancing, we had an increase of 1.5 billion in 2012 and in 2013 even the expenditures increased by 3.2 billion kuna and certainly did not leave the funds for what today's Government or the Ministry of Finance provided. So, for example. No matter what I said the expenditures were reduced, additional resources were provided, as many as 405.3 million kunas for the health care system and those with hospital obligations. On this occasion, I would appeal to the promoter not to forget those hospitals such as the Sibenik-Knin County Hospital, which regularly settles within the deadlines, that what happened last year was a trend at the very beginning, but we must commend that there has been a change after all because I think it would be a very ugly message, all those who regularly comply with the commitments within the deadlines, that they do not provide additional funding from the state budget, and that would certainly create riot payers that would also wait for a year and some state budget to ensure them in such a way. Furthermore, additional funds are also provided for compensation for assistance and care and personal disability amounting to HRK 104.5 million. An extra maternity leave of $92.9 million, that says enough what this government wants and where it's heading. Surely, each of us would want these funds to be even higher but within realistic possibilities, surely we must be content. The EU co-financing fund has also been increased by 89.9m kuna. As much criticism as it is and certainly would like these funds to go much faster, much better to withdraw them and we can't, and none of us can be satisfied, no matter what side of the assembly it comes from, but if we increase this fund for co-financing of EU projects, it says that there are a lot of projects in the local self-government unit that are unable to secure that part of the participation, and precisely with these funds, they too will be able to withdraw funds that would not be provided in any other way. Furthermore, we see that employee expenditure has also been increased by 232.3 million kuna, primarily due to the application of collective agreements. The subsidies were also increased by 113.9 million for rural development measures as well as for active employment measures. 60.3 million kunas deserve additional development projects in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema. This, together with these items that we can see at the Ministry of Regional Development that says regional development projects are increasing by 30%, the further Operational Programme of Competitiveness of Cohesion, which provides for the assistance of trade societies, cooperatives, farmers and craftsmen also by 238%. The development of assisted areas of additional 35% and thus in turn says that these funds that are now foreseen by the rebalancing and we know what the date is, we know when this rebalancing will be voted on that everything will have just over 30 to withdraw funds. As much as I wish it were on some items that no reductions were seen and that there was no reduction must be known why it comes to them. If, for example, they are. in the case of firemen's funds, we have a fire season behind us and what hasn't been spent so far would have said to a high date for sure, regardless of whether or not additional funds are provided now would not have been withdrawn and there is no point in booking them at all on those items. When I mentioned the fire department, I have to look back, I am glad to see that in order to train the fire department of the Croatian fire department, 77% more is ensured, and if we add this to the fact that the implementation of the 2017 budget shows that 142% is more than in 2016, it can be said that this government manages to ensure that as much money invests and separates from fires. Now, I wouldn't list any other programs because I don't even know the programme of special implementation against fire protection was 13% higher than the previous years, fire protection 14%, and then I don't know how to organize protection and rescue 148%, but I would briefly look at the way these funds are distributed within public fire stations. In fact, we've been waiting a long time for me to hope that it will very soon come to our assembly benches and debate on the new Fire Department, I don't think it's right for certain fire departments that have the same number of employees, and perhaps, not perhaps, but certainly even have fewer residents and even the area protected by these public fire departments to receive a million, a million and two million kuna more funds than some others, for example. The Public Fire Department of Vodice, unfortunately by order and by the amount of funds it receives per fireman, is significantly lower among the last on the list, so here at this time I appeal to those resources available to, by a certain standard, whether it is the number of employees in a public fire department, whether it is covered by the area or the number of inhabitants, but to introduce order and to be fair to all citizens and to all citizens and municipalities of our beautiful. Here, so short.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105455	Thank you very much, next, I'm sorry, but we have one replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105456	Thank you very much. Your colleagues mentioned EU funds, you say you are not satisfied, this is a devastating result. The Republic of Croatia only paid 3.5 billion in fees and out of other liabilities of EUR 5.5 billion, and we withdrew 900 million in kuna. This is defeating it is just high treason, all the EU stars that are golden here are going to fall in streets and cities, squares, villages that will fall in the Republic of Croatia, because the fact that Croatia will continue to finance projects of other developed members of the EU, because we need to know that Junker and the team of Tusk on which Prime Minister Plenikovic are on track to change the policy so that there will be no funds for balancing cohesion and we depend on Junker whether he drank a plum in Slavonia that day, a line from Dalmatia or not I don't know what other drink, means this is straight high treason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105457	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105458	Thank you very much, so, dear fellow Bull, I said we can't be satisfied. However, it should be said that this government has found only 6% of the funds withdrawn, and at this point we can say that there are almost 80% of the calls for tenders, there is a long way to go and there is a procedure for calling competitions, contracts to withdraw funds. [[Good job.]] There are many problems already both colleagues and colleagues have said that there has been an increase in prices, public procurement is extremely complex and that all of us would be more satisfied that these funds have been withdrawn in a larger amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105459	Thank you, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105460	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers and associates, so we have talked about problems in the budget so far we have mentioned the case of shipbuilding or the Uljanika, but there is another item that no one has mentioned that is very important, which is the item of the procurement of fighter aircraft that stands in the budget of 350 million kuna. So I'd like Minister Maric, or his HDZ colleagues to tell me why no contract on the purchase of these planes has been signed today and what you'll do with 350 million kunas that clearly have no function in the budget anymore. So Minister Krsticevic orders U.S. F-16, 12 pieces in Israel, the price will reportedly be 2 billion 900 million kuna, including everything, so that money includes service, maintenance, remonting, weapons, infrastructure and so on. Minister Maric puts into the budget an item of 350m kuna for 2018, but the contract on the delivery of fighter aircraft is not signed. They said it would be signed during the summer, so it would be signed in September, today it's 19.11., no contract. The contract is unlikely because the US aircraft manufacturer F-16 does not want to remount them, they are made absolutely clear that these planes in Israel have been upgraded so many times and in such a bad state that they are no longer for use even if they were to be remounted, but are actually cans that should be spent. And now, the NATO Alliance, the United States, or producers of that aircraft simply don't want to, they don't want to accept the obligation of the remont. And the contract stands, so the contract stands, Croatia has no further defence of airspace, first of all because they sent those unfortunate MiGs to Ukraine, where we lost 150 million kunas, we didn't get back neither planes, nor money, which according to the President of the State of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, an act of high treason, I didn't say, she said, and now we have a new story to order again some planes that she doesn't have. Well, we've been ordering planes all along, so come on, I'll make you 12 paper airplanes so we can at least have some planes when we can't buy the real ones. And now watch what else, we don't have planes, we don't have a signed contract, the Israeli minister resigns five days ago, the Israeli defence minister, who signed the contract, otherwise he's been indicted several times for corruption, and what happens now? The Americans don't want to make a remont, no one else knows or can't, and tell me if that's the situation with those planes, why did you do the projections for 2020 and 2021 at all, and in those projections increase the amount we need to give for those planes, you increased from 350 to 581 million kuna, which means that even though that competition would have gone in that form in which it was agreed, it could essentially cause complaints in court because the price that was originally agreed in the contest was not respected. Tell me, Minister Maric, since you are in the government every day, why did President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic talk to President Trump about getting the plane in Paris a few days ago, and she said again, so how did we agree? Now that it's all signed, let me not mention that story of conflict of interest and so on, of this, but you're quite clear that this item will not be used, what will you do with it? What are you gonna do with 350 million? Here, answer us. If you don't know, I can help you, let's say you have an Expensive Medicines Fund, supposedly no money for expensive medicines, so give those 350 million, give it to expensive medicines, and at least children will be able to be treated and adults, who should already, give it to hungry children in schools, you know how much money it takes for hungry children in schools? 30 million kuna, if we save that money for those unnecessary planes, we can feed children in schools for 12 years. I can't believe that one finance minister can't find 30 million kunas for hungry children in schools, not just primary schools, but also high school. So, we have in Croatia, here it is, that again it wouldn't be that the Bunjac has something to say about pulsism, this is what, the Law on Education and Education, Article 68, primary schools are obliged to organise the diet of students, they are obliged, they have schools, they don't have, 50% of Croatian schools don't have an organized diet, in high school, they don't have any. Since that makes sense, that primary schools have a diet, that colleges have a diet, and that high school doesn't have a diet, so it doesn't make sense. Why don't you help those kids? Do you know that 30,000 children in Croatia are hungry in school, especially you in high school, who go to art school, who are early in the afternoon, are in practice, if there is no food money and his diet is not organized, they are hungry. Here's an idea for you to think about, what to do with that money that's obviously too much, we've got surplus, we've got money, so we're taking a bath in money, so I guess we'll give that 30 million dollars to keep the kids from starving. You're talking to Mr. Maric along with your HDZ colleagues about demographic measures, and the kids are hungry. Well, it's so unworthy, it's so hollow that this one, it hurts the head of it. Feed the children, then say that you care about Croatia and young people, and I don't know what, demographics. And also tell your colleague, Minister Krstičević, if he does not sign a contract on the delivery of F-16 planes, if it can be called aircraft, then let him be consistent in his military honor and resign this time, because he has done damage, and the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, and the budget you are doing. And it's nice to talk about some kind of growth, indicators, this, but it's already another hole in your budget. The first one's called Oily, bad news, the second one's called the purchase of fighter aircraft 350 million kuna. Here, if you give money for these expensive medicines, I'm sure Minister Kujundzic will be very pleased, he is otherwise known, as a do-gooder and this, a human man, altruist, here, for sure, if you give it to him you'll have his support, a guarantee, and I'm not saying that you'll have public support, maybe a little rating improves before the EU elections, you're thinking, simply, here logically, even though it doesn't seem like the best thing to do, but, well, now that it's already happened, we've got another 40 days, so, this one, we get a little bit more to fix things up. So that's another budgetary problem, and there's another, third, which I don't get to talk about right now, these are European funds, and then I'm going to touch them in the final word, of course for your general enthusiasm, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105461	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative, Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105462	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the days go by, the years go by, but we're going round and round all the time, we're returning the loans by taking new loans, the debt goes up from year to year. This trend, unfortunately, cannot be stopped in the current system because the system is set up in a way that creates an irreparable debt. It is not only the Republic of Croatia, it is the problem of all EU countries. And why is that? Because in 1992 we adopted the Master Agreement or because the Agreement was then adopted, and it banned all EU members from financing directly from their Central Bank. So instead of the Republic of Croatia having a shortage, it knocks on the central bank door and gets the money it needs, the state borrows money from private banks. Such a model puts the state in a subordinate position against private banks, puts the state in a position of dependence, puts the state in a state in a state or an absolute dependence on creditors. Whoever the creditors are, you can easily find out, you can go to google, write a book I want a country +5% of Larry Hanging, an Australian, 1971 wrote it, you can also google and write Mani is zdept or det, you have a book there, or on YouTube the whole series of movies animated. There's a cartoon American Dream, or American Dream, that lasts half an hour, it explains who actually rules America, who makes money, or who is that elite, who is the 1% that for years, for decades, I dare say, and for centuries they've been working on us all about the head? Unfortunately, that elite is hidden, you can't see that elite on TV, but you can only see puppets, only people who exchange or paint themselves, heads that fly. It is only a matter of time before Minister Zdravko Maric becomes former Minister Zdravko Maric. It is only a matter of when Mr. Zeljko Reiner will become former president or vice president of the Parliament. Why? Because all the functions that people have in this system, all the people that represent this system, they're like such expendable goods. And when problems are created, nobody will say it's Rodschield's fault, it's a global conspiracy, it's a debt-based system of money regulation, but they'll say, no problem is Zdravko Marić, the problem is Željko Reiner, and you're literally not eating bread, or smelling or onion, what else? And that system has already sacrificed some people, here we can see one standing here like Ivan Shuker. As finance minister, he did everything he could in the given frameworks. But in that system, that's what he said, so it's not my fault for the global financial crisis, so of course you didn't, somebody else cooked it up. Al, when the problem got local, who did they blame for the finances? Ha, on you. That's why you were hated, which is why you were actually removed as a minister even though I believe you were doing everything you knew best in the given frameworks. Al, the problem is those frameworks that we are given and I believe that each of us who today is, and you Mr. Maric, and you, Mr. Schuker, and you, Mr. Rainer, I believe that the frames are different so that we can work together, so that we can actually make one system, we literally say, per man. Al, that credit system, those heads that hold us all in hand, who blackmail us, I'll never forget Mr. Schucker when Friscic spoke about banks on TV. He says, they don't blackmail us publicly through the media, no, no, no, but says Mr. Shucker if the currency clause is lifted, we won't give credit, head flies, and you all know that the state depends on our loans and that way they actually keep all of us here in the hands. This system of blackmail, pressure, run by the so-called informal structures of power, because look at people, so we all know that our lives are fleeting and that our influence, in fact, is very limited, we know that decisions are actually not made in the Parliament at all, what policy will be conducted. For if decisions were made in the House, then there would be debate in the Parliament, we would discuss various topics, but there is no debate, as you can see, people are not the vast majority, nor are they present, because they are not interested in this topic. Well, someone's gonna say this subject, but 90% of them aren't interested. And at this time I appeal to you who are part of the ruling majority, to listen to conspiracy theorists, to look at what David Deich says, to read this book I want the country +5% of Larry Hanging, to look at American Dream animated, to simply, perhaps even my books, here, as money and money mechanics came into existence, you can download a very interesting reading on the Internet and then say that Ivane really is, money only comes out as a credit, so Ivane really is, money for paying off interest doesn't exist, and why, because this system as I explained in Mr. Shucker's case, sometimes it collapses on the head of whoever is carrying out that policy. Of course it's not Mr. Shuker, nor you, Mr. Maric, and you're not the creator of that policy, you're not the head in the background that designed this system, you're just set up at one point, time in that place and given your homework here's Zdravko, here's Zdravkec, now you do it, you have to do it. And as I said when the problems come, when they say listen to the VAT dir twice for the hosts from 13% to 25%, or you need to introduce a tax on the first real estate when you buy it, or what's even worse you need to introduce a general tax on real estate so nobody blames you on Ročildo, you will not say look at Zdravko Marić, Zdravko Marić wants to introduce a real estate tax, here are the gentlemen from MOST who even used you for that purpose to raise your hand for it, and after me you tell Ivo I was against it. I believe that you were against it, too, all of the HDZ order that you raised your hands for real estate tax, I believe you were against it. So I remember when Ivo Sanader said no to the property tax, do you remember that? And you're all saying HDZ is against property taxes, I trusted you, and I voted for you because I trusted Doctor Ivo Sanader and HDZ. It took me a long time to realize that Dr Ivo Sanader and HDZ did not actually decide on what policy they were going to implement, but certain decisions were being made outside, and so often it seems that the opposition when it went to power is implementing exactly the kind of policy they were fighting at the time of the opposition. And why, because they don't decide what direction our country is going to go in, they decide on the meaning of foreign entities, foreign forces under whose control or domination we're in, and we here in the assembly just vote these policies, and that's a serious problem, because I personally refused to be a puppet, I refused to serve this policy, why, so for my own sake because I understood as they sacrificed all the other politicians if I'm going to serve this policy, and so will I, too, sacrifice the word of Pernar's fault. I know I'm not, but if you're one of those guys who's holding a ladder to those global thieves, you're also one of them. And that's why I invite you HDZ gentlemen to stop keeping a ladder to global thieves who make billions of dollars in Croatia annually, billions of them all know that, while our citizens are digging through garbage, moving out, etc. It's a choice you need to make and then Pernar won't tell you to look at the rows in front of the soup kitchen, look at the people begging in the street, digging in the trash, but unfortunately you either don't dare or you don't have the courage or something blackmailing you. They tried to blackmail me too, they said to Pernar if you won't play as we smoke on the flute, we'll get you our own people in the media, DORH this thing, I told you gentlemen to do whatever you want, I won't be your doll and I won't serve this policy, I'm calling you on the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105463	Thank you very much, the next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras, who is not, is losing his right to speak, so he will speak to the next respected representative, Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105464	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, so here I would like to say a few words about the rebalancing of the 2018 budget with projections on 2019 and 2020. Personally, I think that the good budget from the beginning of the year with this rebalancing on a more simple and more accurate basis in terms of realising certain activities can only be a better budget and I am surprised at the discussions on the other hand today, which evaluated it by bad or tried to bring it into some situations that simply do not correspond to the figures in it. Because indeed you may give recognition or congratulate the Ministry of Finance at the very level of accuracy in terms of income at 129 billion guess at the beginning of the year how long it should be at the end of the year, knowing that you released the entire income tax to local self-government and reduced the income tax by 20 to 18%, and for small and medium-sized enterprises that account for almost 85% of the Croatian economy to 12%, it is for me the courage of a minister of finance that is manifested in numbers that we have ahead of us. This can be done by people who know what they are doing with public finances, regardless of what we individual ministers for some activity resent more or less, what is clear is that expenditures are reduced by 2.6 billion kuna, which is one let's also call it a neutral impact on the budget from the EU funds themselves. We have a deficit at the level I say 0.1% of GDP or general budget 0.5% when we include guarantees that are likely to be charged by the end of the year for shipbuilding. Those who have received, who are the winners of this budget rebalancing, are clear from the items and yet we are surprised at the view that they are against it, and as very socially sensitive they care about health care and the weakest or most vulnerable groups of this society. Hospitals 305 million kuna, HZZO 100 million, EU funds 77 million, project Slavonia 60 million, and then we have pensions of another 270 million kuna, maternity leave 93 million kuna, compensation for care and personal disability 104.5 million kuna, and those in opposition say we don't like it, we are probably very concerned about these people who are up here all day long and we vote against these groups getting additional funding this year. Savings, where we have savings, we have heard already today on interest rates of 747 million kuna, on a budget stock that has always been spent on individual situations that suddenly occur 120 million and EU contribution of 229 million kuna, means almost a billion and 100 million kuna savings, which can certainly make this budget only better than what was projected at the beginning. Public debt and through this rebalancing down 3% of the points from the beginning of the year means 74.6% of GDP and are against it again. What we heard from them today, I don't know from the SDP they must have enjoyed that public debt grew from year to year only in 2012 and 2013. 38 billion kunas in amounts. It's just that a man doesn't believe why we don't want to show what little construction and say this is good, this is good just do it by the end of the year and it'll be good, but everyone has a right to choose. As for the very divisions of the ministry, what I said earlier today, I am pleased that the Ministry of Regional Development has finally gained an increase in the rebalancing, we have now witnessed a reduction in the last few years of all meanings from those basic initial positions so that in the period around 2012 to 2015, this ministry that was supposed to be the strongest ministry practically in the realization of new projects has been reduced to 40 or 50% of the projected positions so we have reached about 400 or 500 million realisations this is the first time that over a billion and another 40 million kuna is added. For me it means that still funds and projects have been operational, what I am pleased about is that we have an increase in aiding the development of the island by 6 million kuna at the position of capital aid but also for funds in terms of co-financing of projects for nearly 105 million kuna. These are figures that are likely to make it easier in 2019. As far as the second ministry, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is concerned, it is necessary to set aside assistance to the County Road Administrations of 100 million kunas, one who understands the way they operate and the money they are dealing with, I think this is indeed one commendable aid from the ministry at the end of the year which will certainly allow for a better state and transit of the county roads. I am pleased and help the county port administrations with 87 million kuna means almost 18 million more for the construction of ports on islands and on the coast. Well, that's the stuff that needs to be supported because I say we often criticize just to criticize, but this is really something you can see through the eye. When we talk about helping regular lines amounting to 312 million kunas, an increase of only 200 thousand, which means that we have led the system to a level that you can guess at the kuna how much it will cost us to maintain state ferry and high-speed lines, it used to be an increase of tens of millions. It means that public tenders, concession lines have clearly established order in transporting the island to land and that the state knows exactly what it takes or how much it costs. I am also pleased to see an increase in the division of the Ministry of Science and Education of 148 million kunas, which is not insignificant, one large part of scientists and recruits. What I see as a basic problem, which is likely to be a reaction or an execution so far shown or will show by the end of the year is the realisation of construction projects. So that's what we need to be tortured as a whole society and government in a way that we can think of ways to speed up or how to realize construction projects. We are aware of the lack of labour but perhaps some of the shortcomings of the Public Procurement Act. The fact is that several times a year we open the same competitions and that we do not have those who want to report to the competition at all will leave a safe space for 2019 as well as how to solve this problem. I say to these others who are against it I'd like them to remember how they did it even though they often forget, I remember here I was in opposition in 2012. - 2015 public debt 80 billion kunas told us more about rationalization The budget rebalance was once and twice a year because it was wandering into tax policy and it couldn't be guessed for half a year at what would be by the end, it's a fact and we simply ended up in a part of finance, public finances and through credit ratings and everything else, through loans, through debts, through guarantees in major problems that this government and this minister in my opinion solve in one good and appropriate way. [[Invader:...is my pet]] If I have to choose here between what Zdravko Marić knows about public finances and what he knows I don't know about any colleagues of Bunjac, Petrov, Mr. Grmoja or Maras, I know who I'm going to choose and who I would give my kuna to manage with him. I think taxpayers have the same suspicion that they know what to do. So here at the end of the commendation of this budget and the rebalancing, I mean really with everything you've done and through tax reform one, the other and the third that this really leads to that we finally have stable finances, but also people who know where this country's public finances lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105465	Thank you very much, we have more replicas on your exhibit, the first is the respected representative of Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105466	Dear fellow Boric, I listened carefully to your presentations, you mentioned the Slavonia Project, the Slavonia project is a project that has no document, no goal, no indicator. The Slavonia project is a simple pear balloon, and if we are already watching how much is invested in 5 Slavonian counties, I will tell you according to the latest report by 30.6.7. which was on the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds in Slavonia, 5 counties from the Operational Programme of Effective Human Potentials have invested a total of 2.61%, while in Zagreb City 12.97%. If we look at the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion in Zagreb, 27.75% were invested in Dubrovnik-Neretva County 16.27%, in Osijek-Baranja 6.4%, Vukovar-Srijemska 3.8% Virovitica 1.8%, Brod-Posaviska 1.13 , and Poželjko 2.51. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105467	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105468	My colleague Cikotic, your problem is that you are too simple to understand some relationships, especially the budget. So if I see that in this budget, the Slavonia project goes 60 million more, I have nothing to consider or an individual effect in any county, when construction projects are the most invested in, something that is under way. And if you think this minister is guilty because some mayor, mayor or mayor didn't do his part of the job, I don't see it that way. Someone on the ground has to do their job, but I'm saying there's progress in using the Funds, so take the results last year and this year. By the year, and we see for ourselves at the amount of the budget, the contribution of the European Funds should be higher than this year. It's up to us at the local level to do it or we're not going to make it or we're going to solve our investments or we're not, but the state has written what it wants and what it will pay for. But it all seems too simple to you and take it down to banality, to a detail that assures you that nothing is wrong here. There are very good things here, and I'm sorry that you're against this budget rebalance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105469	Thank you, next replica of the esteemed representative of Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have provided information about the increase in funds for Luke of county importance in the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. And the item that is shown here is only one part of the investment in the maritime port that is primarily intended for the transport of Croatian islands. I know that you are familiar with the project run by the second administration, the EU Strategic Planning Funds Agency within the Ministry, which provides about EUR 80 million for the complete completion of the construction of the seaport system, which is a function of transport integration and which, as you know and follow, which Minister Butkovic is almost monthly signatories of all important ports connecting the Croatian islands, in that sense, is the addition of what you said was increasing for the county ports, and these are funds directly from the national components, i.e. from the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105471	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105472	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic, that's right, because... Now, it means that already this year 2018 we will still have, I think, 2019, the distribution of these funds. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you get a contract in which it clearly says, you have a year to call a tender and start an investment. If you don't, you won't get those funds. And now it's up to those who got it, local self-government, county port administrations, in this case, to settle their business. And then the last ones go, and they're the performers and everything. I'm saying, those who have never built or done anything like that, it just seems too simple to them, they think it all ends the moment we discuss something here. No, there's only one thing that can start a little bit, and everything else is down in the field. So I'm surprised that in this period where we're still five years old, where contracts have already been signed in many public competitions from rural development, which has clear deadlines, one year, have you signed or opened the competition? You didn't. You've got nothing left to ask. Just look at the protection of the environment. And the way you increase the number, uh, the amount of funds, let's say for supply. [[Intruder: Thank you]] the container next year. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105473	Thank you, next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105474	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Boric, now that your colleague Cikotic has provided you with accurate information about this brew balloon called the Slavonia Project, it is clear that what you have prepared, what you have been saying here all day, does not stand at all. So we have the fact that budget expenditures are growing year after year, and that's your responsibility, to employ an increasing number of people in the state service. I think Nova TV has announced 2700 that the new employees, i.e. the number of employees in the state administration, have been increased. And the number of new employees, we don't know that, because there was also a natural outflow of people in the state service. That's what you do. And that's why all the citizens of this country suffer from an increase in budget expenditure. These money could invest a lot smarter, in development, and what are you spending it on? To the entanglement of their frames That's what you do. [[Intruder: Thank you]] colleague Boric, and your projects were all said by her colleague Cikotic [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105475	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative, Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105476	Thank you very much. My friend Grmoy, you don't have to be nervous because we know something, too, because we come, I say, from local self-government, so when you talk about piar, every day there's something piar to you. We had the Island Act, and that's your pear, the Slavonia Project is your pear. So far, I have not met a prime minister who has sat so much with the mayors, with local self-government leaders, especially in Slavonia, held my own advice to negotiate projects and to implement the same projects. It seems too simple to you, it just seems too simple to you, and it's not like that, because co-ordinating the design of a particular project and realisation isn't that simple. Secondly, as far as impregnating is concerned, so if someone was infatuating at local or state level, it was the Bridge, and you're not even today, he says, you can't recover from that famous sentence, so the secretary prepares me for a decision on the resolution of three ministers, and that's why you're against everything. You know this is good and this is going towards better, but you just can't stand it, that's the one, let's call it, no anger, that's the famous Croatian yal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105477	Thank you, the next replicas of the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105478	Thank you very much. Dear Boris, you are the same, as many MPs have talked before about the aid and care allowance and the personal disability, so here, I will tell you that I sincerely hope, and in fact I believe that all the colleagues in the opposition will support the budget rebalancing precisely because it increases the subsequent system of social care because it would be funny and sad that someone does not support an increase in such fees. And let me just say, not just for people with disabilities, because the extra for help and care isn't the fee that people with disabilities get. Each one of us can get into a situation that due to a difficult health condition and a temporary one can come in need of an extra for help and care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105479	Dear Representative Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105480	Thank you very much. My colleagues Lukačić, well, here I am just repeating, it is not clear to them that only two things are an increase in maternity leave of 92.9 million kuna and a supplement for care and personal disability 104.5 million, if only those two things, any opposition would support it. They don't want it, they want it at the level to come out here five minutes a day to comment on some kind of policy, little bits of important and irrelevant detail, and thus to say that they are... concrete, good, reasoned things that this budget has written with a letter, a figure, they don't want, and they will come here, I don't know, when we vote on Wednesday next, or when it is and will be against, as they have been against tax reform that once again allowed these revenues to be realised and almost as projected last year in the 12th month when we brought the budget, they don't understand, but maybe, here, change their opinion until next week. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105481	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representatives of Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105482	My colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. When it comes to the budget, it is about what strong sectoral policies have done or what they have failed to do. We unfortunately had a tax reform here a few weeks ago that actually could have been characterized as a lack of strong sectoral policies. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because, here we have a first time, we talk a lot about EU funds and really it's one area that's been demystified. Eu funds do not begin to be used when an official in a ministry has an increased coefficient of 30% or 10% higher wages, because he only calls the competition. This entrepreneur goes to town first, goes to get a building permit, we reward people in the system with a 10% or 30% higher salary, but then the process doesn't actually end. The process begins much, much earlier. What's missing is public administration reform. We have had a pension reform, we need a demographic recovery, we need stronger rates of economic growth, that is what we can do through the use of EU funds. So that's what's at our disposal. 2.7 billion kuna is extremely large when it is lost in 2018, because if corrections and irregularities occur, and it is inevitable that there will be, because risks are tenfolding, so before we had a billion euros, we now have EUR 10 billion to use. And then when it comes to those losses, we're gonna lose M+3, and there's gonna be an automatic recall. There is a possibility that Croatia will lose a billion euros, irrevocably, by automatically impeaching. My colleagues in finance must know that, because that was the situation in 2017. You just don't have to look for the culprit, you need to look for solutions. It is time that the sectoral departments did not bring basic documents in time, meaning Waste Management Plan, Management Development Action Plan, all of which was late, money from EU funds cannot be used 'until these plans are realised, but what is now threatening us is the fact that we will lose funds from transport again, because if you look at the Report by 30.06.2017, 913 million EUR was only allocated, 57 million was paid, i.e. Croatian road users, Croatian railways, provided accounts for EUR 56 million. If we speak in relation to 913 million, and the account of those to which we have allocated the funds, they have been sent by 57 million, 56 million euros. So that's where we're going to fall, to the realization. I'm not saying this because I'm clear, but because I'm worried, I'm worried because we're paying membership fees from 3.5 billion to 4 billion euros, we're making a national contribution of EUR 2 billion, so 12 billion is at our disposal, and just what's going to happen is that we're not going to make use of the funds. We had recently also the prime minister here, who said he was at meetings, so, in the European Commission, and that for the new members would be the National Component 30%, that's very much. Under the urgent need of the Ministry of Regional Development, which is indeed PR-related, because it is actually one responsible job, the Ministry of Finance finds out about the corrections and irregularities only when it is late, when it cannot influence them. We've agreed 52% of the funds over a period of 5 years, are we really going to contract more over a period of 2 years, so that's that much? And at least that's what we need, because IPA has shown that 126% of us should have agreed. The Operational Programme Transport 2007-2013 showed that we had a 161% contract, we had EUR 236 million available, and we ended up in a contract of EUR 196 million. So that's a fact. We have not been able to arrange the funds available to us, we have not yet closed the Operational Programme Prometheus, we have not closed it, and we should have closed it with 31 March 2018. What's waiting for you? Have the European Commission's findings on this Programme come in? What's a fact, is that the Republic of Croatia has today allocated 52% of the funds, Hungary has at this very moment allocated 105% of the funds. So all their customers already have contracts, they just spend, they just spend money. What I want to say is, in the 6th month of 2017, we sent one statement of expenditure, why didn't we send another statement of expenditure, or 5 statements of expenditure, and declared costs? It's like I'm an investor, I'm building a hotel for someone, I'm not looking, and I've built five floors already, and I'm not asking for my money. Why didn't we send the statement of expenditure? The secretary of state said at the Committee on Regional Development and European Funds that we would send in December, why are we waiting until December? Why are we spending the EIB's loan of 6 months 2016 with 1.5% interest of EUR 90 million, and we do not know that we have justified them, because I have not yet asked why we missed the opportunity at the end of 2016, when we had a valid Government Decision, and we say that we lack administrative capacity, in European Union funds, in an accredited system, we had a Decision on 549 employees, why did the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds not employ a single person, and they had an approved reception plan? When there is no administrative capacity, the red light burns in Brussels. Why? Because if people are under increased pressure, both jobs, mistakes happen. Unfortunately, with the first budget and budget from 10 years and 20 years ago, we certainly don't have any adjustments to make. There was no realisation from the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Well, of course she's gone, 719 million kuna. In what way she could have been resolved if the minister in charge wasn't until the 6th month. In 2018, so a year and 1 month, he didn't adopt the Internal Affairs Regulation? It took him a year to process his jobs. How can anything work if we don't know who's responsible for what? Furthermore, we know that by 31.12 this year we have to verify it means a billion and a half euros, we still lack 750m euros. If we do, Croatia will receive a new 406m euros. So new funds, we can invest even more in development, we can invest even more in islands, we can invest even more in Slavonia. We need to start dealing with the structure, the strategic framework, the right things, the capacities, the building of institutions, not creating stories. So this isn't really me. The second thing, in traffic, we have the Peles Bridge, it's agreed 85%. What happens if there's a public procurement correction on the Peljesk Bridge? We know by... The minimum correction that happens is 25% then it decreases if there are circumstances. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's why there are no circumstances, she won't shrink. She'd also appeal because I've had enough with the entrepreneurs in contact and everything, we had the fastest finger contest. He's been suspended on my search and numerous entrepreneurs. But we had it at 4:00. m.h., at the end of the 4th month. Construction and equipment competition, same model as the fastest finger. And then the minister said there was no record of an audit trail, that it couldn't be secured, probably for that reason, the contest was suspended. And what did we do? It wasn't the fastest finger of the director that mattered. It was the fastest finger of the clerk in the post office. The system e-funds tells you before the tender is announced how many users want to report the tender, which are the funds they are looking for. And we in the 5th month. We know they're asking for a billion kunas, and what we do is 5.6, we break up the contest, we transfer it to the post office, we spend in 3 seconds an allocation of 200 million, and that means the tender is for construction and equipment. What kind of health care we'll have, what education we'll have, what pensions we'll have if we knew in the fifth month. that a billion kuna will be sought by entrepreneurs? And you know how co-financing is? It means 65%. So if entrepreneurs are looking for a billion, then it would be some real-billion-and-a-half-billion-dollar investment. We said no. Instead of increasing the alocation immediately and accepting these investments if they can provide indicators. So I'm appealing again, and I wrote that. Another matter of ESI loans, a number of entrepreneurs writing me questions and writing me proposals, 15% of their own participation needed to be ensured. That's an extremely big deal for entrepreneurs. 15% to give out his liquidity for the loan. So that's a lot. E-impulse, 2099 applications. 800 million people were looking for it. In the end, we financed 250 million kunas. Why? So someone wrote project applications and we said, "I'm sorry, no, we don't have any money." So in this case other Member States take from national funds and add because prices of those who are... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105483	Thank you. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105484	Thank you. Dear Representative Cikotic, you are an expert on EU funds, so can you tell the Croatian public how much money from EU funds has been taken over since Croatia's entry into the EU in the first place? Pulled it and compromised it with other transition countries? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105485	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105486	In gross, Croatia has so far confirmed 9% of costs, 9%. It's extremely small. We have agreed 52% but you must know d in what is agreed are projects that have been made for 10 years of documentation, so the Peljega Bridges all other major projects. The biggest problems will occur in the water sector where we have a billion and 50m euros. So there's going to be an increase in prices, there's going to be that we're going to have to express a lack of funds and we need to go to Brussels as soon as possible and see what happens. 9% of the funds have been withdrawn by the Republic of Croatia so far, which is 865m euros. Of those available with a national contribution of 12.6 billion euros and that's true, 9%. Everything else assigned, the project, we had it back in traffic and we prefabricated it for a new period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105487	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105488	Thank you, Your Honor. We here, colleague Cikotic, could hear some worrying facts from your mouth not only about how much money Croatia has withdrawn so far, meaning 9% of what those who have managed both the government and the ministries are responsible for, means about EU funds but, of course, other ministries that you have spoken of themselves, but what I am particularly concerned about is the possibility of these corrections, the irregularities you mentioned, and I am interested in who will pay for it. Will those responsible for these irregularities pay for it or will Croatian citizens pay for it as they have so far paid for all the mistakes of Croatian political elites? From the incentives that have been thrown into Agrokor, from the guessing of Agrokor, from what has been paved in shipbuilding to all other errors of Croatian political elites. Well, we have a situation and it's code now. Petrochemia, though a little talk has been said that it has also been granted [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] to implement this privatisation process. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105489	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105490	Dear comrade Grmoya, yes. As far as these adjustments are concerned, 80% of the resources actually being developed are public funds, so they're public users. If we have such corrections, sooner or later it will bear the state budget. Corrections to the Cococo that count are at least 25%, and we need to distinguish between the two types of corrections. One is the corrections of those that are systemic errors, systems, so, system errors. If, then, I'm the one who makes the call, makes the mistake, then it can happen and the whole call, so it's 100% correction, and we also have the difference, it's a smaller correction, where entrepreneurs don't make certain indicators themselves, then it's actually going to pay the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105491	Thank you, the next replicas of the esteemed representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105492	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Čikotić, you have made it quite clear to us here how important it really is that the Republic of Croatia did not actually use the billions of resources available to us, which, in fact, not only are they available to us, but they can actually contribute to the quality of life, even those most vulnerable. I'd just point you to one, one operation that hasn't been used at all, it's from the competitiveness programme, cohesion, it's about an operation that's focused on infrastructure projects, and to improve the infrastructure of the Centre for Social Care, the provider of services for people with disabilities. and services provider for children and young people [[Intruder: Thank you]] where 250 million kuna [[Intruder: Thank you]] Only 60 were used, that's worrying. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105493	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105494	As regards the competitions available from effective human resources and from the operational programme of competitiveness of cohesion. We have a strategy to encourage social entrepreneurship available to 280 million kunas. Unfortunately, that money is not spent. We had a contest in 2016-and- 2017- that 8 million kunas and 11 million kunas, and we know that, in fact, through these projects of social entrepreneurship development actually, we give the opportunity to those with disabilities to contribute, because every person who can work can demonstrate himself, will certainly be satisfied in life and will be able to contribute better to society in full. So these people don't want to be the ones to be helped, they want to contribute equally. I'm familiar with this case about the Social Services Centre, if I'm not mistaken, a million kunas could've been per Social Services Center, a vehicle could've been taken, and that was some, I think, about eight months ago called a tender.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105495	Thank you. Now it's going to end up in the name of the Attorneys of the Living Wall and the Power Club. Ah, here you go. I didn't see it, yeah. Here, I just didn't see it. I guess he can count to three, right, and, uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105496	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Cikotic, in much of your debate, can agree, primarily that it is necessary for the withdrawal of European money to bring in operational programmes strategies. And you mentioned an operational environmental protection program and you mentioned a waste management plan. I would remind you that for a year and a half of the common government, we should have brought that portfolio and that plan. I'm sorry there's no Minister Dobrovic. I've told him a lot of times. In those years and a half we haven't, and we should have brought in on time, an operational plan or a waste management plan, and you know many units of local self-government, including regional self-government, have asked for this plan to be adopted in time. And a colleague of Grmoya honours the government for hiring, as he said according to New TV, 2700 new employees in public or state administration, and you have now told us that we have not hired another 500 when it comes to the use of EU funds, so we should get a little coordinated Did we hire a lot or didn't we? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105497	The answer of the esteemed representative Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105498	Dear colleague Bačić, I will first answer you regarding the Waste Management Plan. So I was actively involved in bringing him into the first government of Prime Minister Tihomir Oreshkovic. Your mayors have openly stepped up the change of the Waste Management Plan, and I have attended your meetings as Deputy Minister for Regional Development of the EU Funds. What was drawn from the previous government, and these are burner plants, with the construction of burner plants and such centres, bulky, waste management, cannot be achieved from 50% to 65%, i.e. recycling of raw materials that should be by 2027. I personally know, because I also called some ministers while I was a government official, and later I was chief adviser to Ivan Kovacic, Deputy Prime Minister and also participated in the adoption. The plan was adopted on 5.1.2017 for the Waste Management Plan. I understand any resistance, and I wouldn't go into politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105499	So, here, now, on behalf of the club of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the Power will finally speak to the esteemed representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105500	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. So, during this debate, we have proven that there are holes in the budget, that the budget suffers, first of all, meaning, because of the Shipbuilding case, because of the Oilies, the unforeseen costs that will require the opening of the deficit in 2019. We have seen that the government doesn't know what happens to fighter aircraft, that it doesn't know what it will do with 350 million kuna, is that 350, 580, as far as it, doesn't know, it ruins this story of Mr. Boris, how the minister knows exactly how to calculate the items in the budget, and in particular, its credibility destroys the fact that from year to year, less and less funds are withdrawn from European funds means this year it has withdrawn 2.7 billion kuna less, last 1.9 billion kuna less, which we can think of EU funds when the EU Ministry of Funds does not withdraw the planned funds. So who pulls those funds if they don't know for themselves. So the EU funds are the most common fraud, deception and lie, they say we give you so much and so much money and they know in advance that these funds will never reach the users. So we pay an annual EU membership fee of 3 billion 700 million kuna, we invest hundreds and hundreds of thousands of hours of our best staff, to finally get less than we invested. And it really doesn't make sense, and I ask Minister Marić not to do such a projection anymore than to be much more careful, much more subtle to leave those items to the smaller ones for at least next year. What is very important to mention is that according to scientific studies done for Bulgaria and Greece, European funds have a negative impact on the budget, even when these funds are realised they do not bring benefits to the budget. And then it would be much better if we left our money to ourselves to leave the time and work that our employees gave and to make it easier to distribute that money to those users who are our priority, because the EU always sets out some of its conditions they always ask for money to be spent like this and what's most important of all they pay off only after the completed project, which means that those funds that are agreed are the question of whether they'll ever come or whether they'll have to come back eventually. Since money must be found primarily in the Croatian budget, local administration or wherever, it is clear that Croatia must be further in debt because of these European projects, and with whom Croatia is in debt, Croatia is in debt with foreign banks. And yet the EU has come up with a plan for our citizens, our budget, to take our country's money through interest payments. And it is not good anyway, but it is a policy, which unfortunately voted by this Croatian Parliament in 2013 by ratifying the treaty with the EU and they are simply, blindly following it without any thought without any critical opinion, here I have not heard here in the past 3 years as far as I am in the assembly a single and even the slightest criticism of the EU. So, the EU is only good, only great, the EU leads angels from the sky, there should worship all blind listen, no one thinks what Croatian interests are, no one can compare those figures, there are 2.7 billion missing, and it doesn't matter we'll wipe it with a rubber like it wasn't. So the second time you write 256 billion, no matter what, there won't be any money, we'll erase it again, it was the mistake of this typing, we just throw out that number and life goes on. Turn around and see how people live, and you will know very well what needs to be changed. That's all I have to say about this except in the end, of course, that the Living Wall has no intention of supporting this budget rebalance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105501	Thank you very much, now, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105502	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, I expect the answers for the first 6 months of this year's report, but the whole debate has been held. I expect you to have a final presentation, I see that you have not applied, that you will give answers, boast with good financial results once again, how is it possible that the Croatian state, as you say, is constantly subsidising agriculture increasing and higher, and Croatia imports an increase in imports this year compared to 2017, is 300 2 billion kuna, 2 billion kuna only agriculture. When we talk about funds, so is it really possible here that HDZ colleague Boric, colleague Bacic, co-worker, can defend, that I can defend that the Republic of Croatia has paid $5.5 billion to Junker whom you must listen to, Mr. Boric, you Bacic, you ministers have to listen to him, man is not known how he will react with our money. If he's going to do anything in Croatia at all, he doesn't know his shoes anymore, so he made a mistake wearing a man today and he's leading you he's your leader's star. Those on which rakija will drink, whether to drink the local line from Dalmatia or from Slavonia, and you depend on these people, you court these people and answer whether it is possible that Croatia has withdrawn only 9% of the funds, that it has paid 5 times more in the EU funds, so to whom you serve, whether you serve the people or Junker, Tusk, they are not interested in investing that money in the Republic of Croatia, they will shut down the cohesion funds. My friend Bačić is funny to you,... but it is not funny 2/3 of Croatia that are empty, not funny to those people, I was here a few days ago and a colleague of Grmoja in Germany is not funny to people who pay for 500 EUR bed in rooms of 10 beds on floors where the planned rooms for single 500 EUR are just for bed, because of your smiles due to the courtship of Junker, your goal is to promote this policy and not national, sovereign policy and that this money is invested in the Republic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because it's incomprehensible, I don't have the minister's answer how it's possible to invest more and more money in agriculture and in the first half of this year compared to 2017. 300 million dollars has been increased in imports. While our farmers have to cut fruit, peaches, they can't sell table grapes, apples have to throw. And just when we have the season, that's when import increases and our farmers can't sell it. The economy ministry, I have proof that it favours, directly favours public procurement in the EU project funds. It's a straight shot. Here's Minister Horvat, I'm speaking directly to you. It is a public procurement for Euhona in Sinj where he was online from the top of the state to the local self-government involved in selecting public procurement that costs 10 million kuna, it was adjusted because the criteria changed during public procurement without prior consultation. These are the lobbys, to be said publicly, here I say, Minister Horvat and the Ministry of Economy participate in EU procurement arrangements and favour the companies that pay you the campaign. Here I am arguing that it is Minister Horvat directly involved in setting up public procurement and bargaining because from the memos sent to the City Council's enquiries where we are looking for changes in criteria. He says the city council voted rebalancing, that the city council was wrong and the city council was wrong and city councilmen, that we did not accept the rebalancing and the rebalancing was not yet at all at the debate, only a few days ago was proposed, and tomorrow it will only be discussed. Yes, gentlemen, yes, gentlemen, you're setting up public procurement, I repeat once again, that's what I said to Minister Horvato a few days ago here, and once again, it's just a drop in the sea of what's done, on one example I said, on one occasion. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105503	Thank you very much. With that I conclude, here you go, what is the injured Rules of Procedure of my colleague Grumo's?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105504	The respected chairman, so here on the part of his colleagues, Bulja, has been charged with heavy charges against Minister of Economy Darko Horvat that man means he is involved in setting up public procurement for EU funds and the HDZ colleagues have not found it appropriate to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105505	What article are you saying?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105506	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth So here's where they are, here are the serious charges against,.../ Intruder Reiner:
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105507	Please don't say things that have absolutely nothing to do with Article 238. I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105508	So can I say? So this is where they were brought out. Serious accusations and HDZ colleagues do not want to react, which means that what my colleague Bulje said is true that Minister Horvat is setting up means public tendering [[You can't, you can't say.]] /The speaker is disabled./... [[Intruder Reiner: Because you abuse an institution, abuse the institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105509	You can't. Comrade Bulj, I warn you, do not abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure in advance. You say if you think the Rules of Procedure is hurt, but I warn you not to abuse it. Okay, so I'm closing this debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning, we will begin with the first point to be the proposal for a candidate for the selection of the Commissioners for Information, the applicant is the Committee for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Have a nice evening. The session was interrupted at 19.02 S.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-19-0.u105510	Proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2018 and the proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half-year 2018. The proposal is concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with the proposal of the Assembly parent body, I am voting on the proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half-year 2018. I find it unanimous, that most votes 78 for, 1 abstention and 54 against the adoption of a half-yearly report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2018. 111. The Budget Act of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, proposed to the Croatian Parliament, firstly, the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan, for the first half-year 2018. Please vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for and 53 against that decision. Secondly, the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for the first half of 2018. I would like to vote that most votes, 77 for, 51 against that decision. Thirdly, the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for the first half of 2018. Please vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for, 53 against this decision. Fourth decision on granting consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for the first half of 2018. Please vote. I find that with 77 votes in favour and 54 against that decision. Fifthly, the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Restructure and Sales Centre for the first half of 2018. Please vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for and 53 against that decision. The sixth, decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the first half-year HZZO financial plan. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 77 for, 53 against this decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The fiscal liability law and Article 16(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. The regulations on drawing up and handing over statements on fiscal responsibility and the Report on the application of fiscal rules, the Financial and State Budget Committee proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2018. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 77 for, 1 abstention and 53 against a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2018. Honorable MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, good morning. Before we continue today's work, I just want to give a few notices. In the work plan for tomorrow you are informed of the course of tomorrow's session and tomorrow we start at 9.30 with the amendment to the tax code package, and then we would be working on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire and Buying of Business Space and the Final Proposal of the Law on the Central Register of State Property, with the hunger at 12:00 p.m., so this first and second point, if we don't finish them by 12:00 p.m. The work would then continue on Tuesday, November 27, when the draft budget for 2019 will be on the agenda. Schedule for Wednesday and Thursday 28th and 29th We will deliver the 11th to you by the end of the week, and on amendments to the budget, it would be announced on Friday, November 30th, and on the budget and on all the points discussed until then, they would vote on Monday 3 December. So here's the information, of course we'll inform you in writing. Now we continue to work, the first point today is: - The proposal of the candidate for the selection of the Commissioners for Information. The Proposer shall be the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, on the basis of Article. 36. The law on the right to access information. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to give us an additional explanation. We have Honorable Vice President Zeljko Reiner with us. Here you go. As president of the Committee on the Constitution Rules of Procedure and the political system, please.
