ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97554	Good morning. Let's start with work. It's about the law. - Proposed wine law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 430; Proposer is Government of the Republic of Croatia based What? [[Intruder: Search word.]] Here you go. [[Intruder: Sonja Čikotić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97555	Dear Chairman, I'd like to request a break on behalf of the club if you'll allow me to consult on what we have here today, today's news in the paper regarding the progress of the curricula reform. Education is extremely important in the Republic of Croatia, apparently we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97556	Wait a minute, wait a minute. They tell me a break can only be asked about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97557	Let me explain. Of course it has to do with wine. [[/Intruder Radin: Does it have anything to do with wine?]] So, today we have the fact that QR codes are printed on textbooks. [[Intruder Radin: Here you go.]] QR code students need to scan to get the content available in textbooks because the Republic of Croatia needs to be digitalised. Yeah, yeah, digital education. [[Intruder Radin: But about wine, about wine.]] What the Ministry of Education has done is that the tablets that have been obtained have no cameras and students mean they can't even access that content. [[Intruder Radin: Students and wines go together?]] The only explanation of why it was done is that someone might have had too much wine and made such a public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97558	Thank you very much. It's too soon for a warning. We're not gonna take a break. - Proposed wine law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 430; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. Would the motionary's representative like to give an additional explanation, State Secretary Mr. Tugomir Majdak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97559	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Assembly MPs and MPs. The draft proposal for a wine law has been prepared for better regulation of the overall situation in the sector as well as for the overall consolidation of the rules in the wine sector and for the legal framework and implementation of 5 EU regulations in the area of production, trade and protection of designations in the wine sector. We are legally looking at this draft law to link the areas that have so far been governed by two laws to one regulation. This is also the Law on Wine and the Law on the Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products, as well as specific measures and rules relating to the market in agricultural products. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a draft of the Wine Act in consultation with producers in the wine sector. The consultations were conducted in order to exchange views and better understand the requirements of the manufacturer and their requirements were largely accepted and incorporated into the provisions of the new law. In short, the new Wine Act shall be governed by the competent authorities for its implementation, geographical areas of vine cultivation, wine grapevine culturers which are recommended and authorised for certain geographical areas of cultivation, oenological processes and practices, wine growing register, wine quality testing system prior to marketing, wine protection system, fruit wine production, and control and control of production and transport. The wine producers are given a new and more active role in the presentation of Croatian wines and branding the Republic of Croatia as a wine country. It is important to point out that the new law in the wine sector introduces improvements that will significantly contribute to the improvement of this sector, which are the abolition of all checks, the placing of wine on the market, and thus 12 million kunas are returned to the wine industry for its needs and activities, as the costs of the control of wine in the market will be estimated at around 10 million kunas to be paid out of the state budget and the system of the registration mark will be abolished, whose costs are estimated at 2 million kuna. In addition, the protection of manufacturers and consumers through the establishment of clear competences in the control system carried out by the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village and the control system carried out by other bodies, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. Further keeping a register with the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development, rights and obligations of users and law-holders through detailed registration in the wine register, all points of turnover from grapes to wine sales in the catering facility. This provides an essential prerequisite for increased control of the production and transport of grapes and wine with a view to curbing the gray market, which has been identified as one of the main problems to be addressed in the law-making process. In addition, decentralisation of the process of organoleptic assessment of wine in vineyard regions with a view to bringing the assessment system closer to producers. The establishment of 4 new vineyard regions is also the basis for promotion and marketing activities of regionalisation, regional winemakers' and winemakers' organisations. And these are Slavonia and Hrvatska Podunavlje, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and central coastal Croatia. The suspension of the registration marks and the creation of assumptions for the establishment of a marketing mark on 4 vineyard regions and, as a substitute for their traceability system, the lottery or party is reintroduced. The establishment of 4 regional wine-making organisations for each single region is also envisaged with the aim of giving producers the right to manage promotional and marketing activities related to Croatian wines. As regards the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this draft bill, additional funding of 10 million kuna should be planned. These funds will be used to cover the costs of official controls of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village when issuing a solution for the marketing of wine and fruit wines. All such planned expenditures of 10 million kuna will be provided within the limits... The Ministry of Agriculture at the position of the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and the Village will not increase the total budget of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, the wine sector is freed from financial resources that can be channelled into funded promotional activities and by the implementation of business organisation in the form of regional organisations that are taking over the role of implementing promotional activities in particular in the field of marketing labelling of Croatian wines. This draft Wine Act, in total, takes both legal and financial view, makes assumptions for the administrative and financial discharge of the wine sector and the necessary preconditions and quality of work in this agricultural activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97560	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, you have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 replicas. The first line is Mr. Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Secretary of State, Article 10, states that each grape producer is a legal or natural person who owns more than 0,1 hectolitres of vineyards. So that every legal or physical person regardless of the area of the vineyard if he puts grapes on the market. So it seems to me that there's a vague formulation and I'm afraid that such vague formulations, that means if someone has one four-square beard, it can be a grape manufacturer. So no wine. It is clear to me that wine producers can be someone who does not produce grapes but I do not understand that someone who has one square of vineyards can be a producer of grapes, so it would be good to explain or formulate this article better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97562	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97563	I thank the honourable parliamentary representative Križanić. Article 10 defines grape, must and wine producers as well as wine fillers, means that there are no commercial producers or wine fillers in this part of the circle. So they are clearly divided, meaning the competences of each of these persons, but here we take the possibility of even more precise definitions of this article by making it even clearer in the article. Thank you for your comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97564	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97565	Thank you very much. This is harmonising with regulations, European legislation directives. The fact that since we entered the EU, we have produced before here since 2008 means a million and 278,000 hectolitres and in 2016 to 2017. 760,000 hectolitres. Imports are in a terrible increase mainly from Macedonia with which the EU has bilateral relations from other countries while our vineyards drink vineyards, cut them down. So we did not protect the domestic vineyards, nor did we intend to protect the domestic vineyards by this law, but it is suitable for Europeans, importing European wine, and that is evident from all these indicators. Secretary, with what measures are you here protecting domestic vineyards?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97566	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97567	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Buljo. Here is the total exemption of wine producers by measuring SM calculators and MS five tests in 33% compared to the current legal frameworks. So this enables further promotion of each individual Croatian wine producer on both our and our foreign market. The law means it is a major step towards what we have so far had in practice and the fact that we have not brought more than 15 years of improvements in this sector is saying enough that this and the law and the sublaw that will follow, the way towards better branding and promotion of Croatian wines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97568	Mr. Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, I come from one of the largest vineyards in Dalmatia, over 13 million chocolates of the vine. I am currently talking about the Winery Act which should help my winemakers or winemakers from the Vrgorje field where there are only 10 marked wines on 13 million chocolate vines. I would like in this Wine Act that you have presented one fund for all winemakers where they can report for labels, that units of local self-government can appear specifically for clone selection programmes that can work in cooperation with Agronomic colleges to encourage the development of indigenous varieties, indigenous wines because when you watch wine production, from 2010 to 2017, it is twice as much, so it is 1,43 million hectares with 760,000. Imports increased twice as much. You can represent a law that will administratively bring certain savings to winemakers but our winemakers no longer have to sell our wines to because simply that import limits them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97570	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97571	I thank you for asking. I repeat, this law brings administrative discharge to the wine sector, to producers in the current legal regulations, it means 33%. The winemakers themselves participated in the adoption of this regulation, most of the suggestions were accepted in an incomplete year together with winemakers and winemakers, the ministry presented a draft proposal of the Wine Act to improve the position of all winemakers and those in Dalmatia and they were very active in their proposals as well as winemakers from Dalmatia and winemakers from Slavonia and other parts of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97572	Mr. Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97573	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State. Generally, I welcome the adoption of this law. I'd just like to point to an article. 7th paragraph 4. where the territory of the Republic of Croatia works in 4 wine-growing regions, it is Slavonia, Hrvatska Podunavlje, then Croatia Istria and Kvarner, third Dalmatia and four is central, coastal Croatia. I don't think it's up to, through these regions, the whole of Croatia is represented to the end, and I think this fourth region should be named central and northwest Croatia in order to cover all the wine-growing areas, I mean Podravina, Bilogora, Pocaički end, Međimurje, Zagorje, which, in this word, central Croatia is not defined to the end, and I think maybe the word is not needed in that name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97574	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97575	Thank you for asking, commentary. For several years now, the debate has been held, both in economic circles and at the level of the producers themselves, how to define the new regions and the ministry is in that part, respected all the discussions that have been conducted both at HGK level and at their associations dealing with this sector but also with the producers themselves. Here, this is the first reading, we're taking an opportunity, an additional more precise definition and a more comprehensive definition of this concept of the region, we're going to consider your request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97576	And finally, Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97577	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected state secretaries with associates, in the winemaking and winemaking sector in the Republic of Croatia for many years, there is a negative trend in both areas, under vineyards and wine production. The area under the vineyards is lower in 20169 for the Circica 9000 hectares, 28% compared to 2007 and in wine production it is also wine and production 2016. 760,000 hectolitres. After 2013, there is a significant increase in the amount of foreign wines, especially wine from 3 countries on the Croatian market, is the reason price or quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97578	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97579	I also thank you for this comment, question, currently, according to the 2017 data on the vineyard register, Croatia has more than 19.6 thousand hectares under the vineyards, while according to data from the National Statistics Office due to a different methodology. So defining these surfaces, that's the area of over 22,000 acres. There are signs of proportion, but I'm saying because of the methodology of different methodologies. Croatia over 2/3 produces high quality wines means that in that part Croatian wines have made a major shift in quality terms in the last 10 years and this law will allow for further promotion, but also quality work and quantitative progress in society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97580	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate, first of all, as always are the clubs, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97581	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a legislative proposal on the harmonisation of services with EU legislation, a proposal for a Wine Act. We have been harmonising the law where, since we entered the EU, the production of wine, the area of vineyards has been falling 100%, with a rapid decline in production in the Republic of Croatia, and in the wine sector, for many years, there is a trend, the surface, which is falling. And this is said in this explanation and that this is the impact of less wine production in the Republic of Croatia, that it is a trend seen as entering the EU, because of the markets that are so regulated, but the fact that this law does not solve problems or provides solutions for Croatian winemakers. These statistical indicators, which are indicated, say that we simply, here, see in hectolitres that for 100% in the decline from 2008 to 2016 wine production in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about imports, imports are growing rapidly. Rapidly growing, literally, we have been brought into a situation, that with the biliary signature of the EU, Macedonia, which sells more in the Republic, we import their grapes for wine production than Croatian vineyards produce. You list here areas that are less due to climate conditions, due to various conditions, however, the fact is that we have not protected or given solutions to Croatian vineyards. The State Department of Statistics says that import, I'll say example 2014 is import here in 2013 we imported 16 million kuna, 16.5 and 2016 we introduced wines 31 million kn, more than 100%. So statistical indicators suggest that Croatian winemaking is failing, but the ministry is very inspectional, they react very well to it and very effectively, if for example. Here is the mention of Vrgorac, the owners of the vineyards, not the application of the harvest of grapes, immediately the penalty of 10 000 kuna is coming to them, and here we are good for the roaring of our vineyards. Not a single solution to this law we do well for wine producers, not a single law, not a single item. You have here prescribed what you received from the EU, and domestic producers of this law have absolutely nothing. Secretarys do not give solutions, solutions or invest certain amounts in such a way as to subsidise our wine producers so that they can be competitive on the EU market. Now we have come to collect what we have agreed in agriculture in a two-way way when we join the EU. We bring measures, and we literally don't have any more wine production. This is what statistical indicators say, for the 100% drop in wine production and the area of planted vineyards since the time we joined the EU. Tell me what measures are in place and how do you resist the destruction of winemakers and wine producers? They're gone. There's no measure here. One of the technical things you detail, the area, the geographical area, we have means the measures we consider the wine producer 0.1 hectare who has planted the vineyard, but what are the measures? Where we will keep our people in our areas, not to cut vineyards, as is the case in Dalmatian Zagora, Vrgorac is mentioned. People can't sell their product. And that's mostly the guessing of import lobbys, interest groups, directly that are in the ministry of these lobbies. I don't see another way to destroy Croatian wine production. Well, on Hvar, people can't sell their wine, the best quality wine, Korčula,... I can't sell wine, so what are we doing to keep these people in these areas? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have the best quality wines and we can't sell them on the market and you came up with a law that you've brought into line with the EU directive and you don't offer any measures other than statistics that are more than bad. And the tendency is the decline of production, and the growth of imports. I ask you, my dear secretary, on behalf of the Mosta Club, that when we pass these laws, where we will return the production of wine that was before entering the EU, at least before the entry into the EU, and there are no measures, but simply every morning, every day of alignment with European directives, which of which is the domestic wine producer, what does it have? What measures are in the interest of the domestic producer? Well, you can't just rely on the EU and copying their acts and their provisions, so it's not a solution, it's courtship, you're fighting for vineyards, you've destroyed agriculture, you're afraid of declaring an exclusive economic belt, protecting a fisherman, a full example of an exclusive economic belt, but we have some kind of hybrid, half a... Two-thirds of Croatia is empty because of your neglect, your labour, import lobby. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In conclusion, in the Bridge, we're looking for the first reading to tell us what measures you're proposing, and we don't see them here that will stop the fall, i.e. the failure of the production of Croatian wine in the Republic of Croatia. They're gone. And this time the minister didn't show up, he's going to have an obligation with the PR agency how to promote this law as something world-renowned, it's not funny, this secretary isn't funny. 100% lower production of winemaking compared to, twice the production of wine compared to when we were outside the EU. Is this the EU, is it the dream of the Croatian people to destroy both agriculture and wine production, to destroy the peasant village? Secretary, would you please state the measures you are giving this law as an incentive, as a hope for Croatian winemaking, to wine producers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97582	Thank you, too. The next is now Mr. Josip Križanić in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon, everyone. We have before us the Wine Act. The current Wine Act dates back to 2003, which has been changed in the meantime due to mostly nomotechnical coordination, and the consolidation of the EU and national rules in the wine and wine sector is a basis that will serve as a basis for the adoption of implementing rules. In part, the law consumed the opinion of regional wine companies, while in some other parts, of course winemakers disagreed, had their opinions and opinions. I'll say something, some winemakers, for example, suggest that complete production, including originality, should be placed in the hands of the manufacturer. Griefs agitate for a model now present through the production of honey and prosciutto and olive oil with state control and processes, should also be controlled by independent certified bodies in order to weaken the impact of the centre. Furthermore, they believe that one role, obtained by wine associations, is marketing activities, which can be designed themselves. Powers should be given to producers, so the protection of the designations of origin should be in the hands of the winemaker. The regulation obliges legislators to form 4 geographical areas, but gives associations and producers the ability to create their own designation of origin, states that nowhere in Europe there is this model with... and the possibility of subjective assessment of the sensations, which may be removed from the market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It may be possible to remove the designation of origin, but not wine from the market. That's what the wineries think, and the negative trend is in the surfaces, you said it before me, since 2007-2016, we have 9,000 acres of vineyards less, which is 28%. Further on foreign trade exchange, an increase in wine, which is not accompanied by an increase in exports, has been seen. The thing about statistics, in 2017, we had 21 thousand 900 hectares of vineyards, and the annual production of grapes was 116 thousand 307 tonnes and we had 726 hectolitres of wine. In late '17. In addition, 3914 agricultural holdings were registered in the register, with a vineyard area of 19760 hectares. In the wine growing register, 23919 agricultural holdings are registered and the production obligation is submitted by 3729 agricultural holdings with registered production, of 575939 hectolitres. The Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village has issued a solution for placing wine on the market for 551 thousand 419 hectolitres of wine, for which 1497 producers registered in the register submitted their applications. So here we have an apparent huge deviation in the number of economies that report wine production and which wine they put in... That was also the reason for my question that I asked the secretary of state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is certainly an alarm for the alarm, because it is happening, not only because of the reduced interest in vineyarding, but also because of the frequent spread of golden jaundice just the last 10 years. We have had a lot of thematic sessions and sessions of the Committee on Agriculture, precisely on the issue of the eradication of golden jaundice, but there has not been much done. This monster continuously, but slowly, every day, devastates our vineyards, and the vineyarders, because of the inability to fight, tear up their vineyards, and some no longer plant them. If we know that no branches of agriculture have done in the last 30 years in a technological and technical sense, but the marketing step is like viticulture and... and further we know that the culture of wine consumption in the Republic of Croatia is a ritual with which guests are welcomed and which is an integral part of everyday life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With us in northern Croatia, we welcome guests with a glass of wine, somewhere else with a glass or cup of coffee or tea, so it is a ritual of everyday life, and the wine has become a brand that has recently taken off tourism is particularly present and important, then these downward trends are particularly surprising. So these years in terms of prevention and ratification of phytoplasm, other than monitoring and records of infected, endangered areas have not been done much. The affected area is now almost the whole country, and the infected majority of the county. We urgently need to take concrete measures such as the widest possible education of winemakers in the transmission of diseases, which has recently been done and which has made certain shifts, but prevention and prevention of US cricket contributors must be done by co-financing by the state. The state cannot prescribe an operational plan, nor an order to prevent the spraying of American cricket by insecticide, unless it itself is financed. And it's from the state budget, we have nursing homes that don't have the means to buy one... It costs 100 kn and a nursing home just such a shop skips. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it is necessary to do, to prescribe an order, to provide funding from the state budget, to allocate funds for protection, to carry out control through municipal directors and municipalities, and to follow collective measures. If we are talking about the eradication of schizo, schizo, and abandoned vineyards, unknown owners, who are the habitats of the intruders, this must include local self-government without it we will not solve this problem. It has the possibility to resolve this by its municipal regulations, which is to solve this problem, has defined the new law on agricultural land, only we have to apply its provisions in practice. And of course we have to betray the consciousness of people, that we will not overcome this disease, not by any measure prescribed by the ministry or local self-government unless people are involved. On the other hand, the last few years have seen enormous imports, already speaking before me, colleagues from the EU, but also third countries, in particular Macedonia, Montenegro, in thin maesters, which were then repacked and sold without any control across the country, directly, competing with quality Croatian wines. I note, that our winemakers, before the wine was placed on the market, had to pass the analysis of the stamps which guaranteed quality but the cost of our winemakers, this is changing by this law and that's good. I note that I personally asked on the board of the Croatian Centre for Agricultural Food and Village 2016 how many inspections excluded the samples of wine so bound up in the rinfusion tanks. You know how much? The answer was 1, 1 sample. It was believed to the exporting country, so I'm talking about third countries, Macedonia and Montenegro where we're not any regulations, it's not inter trade, it's not one market, so we didn't have to miss them through the border like we have an obligation with the EU, who forbids us to take 20, 50 or 100 of these samples? No one. I think the comment here is too high, but it has now changed, and now such wine is controlled by more frequency, it organizes more often, and it is also certainly due to the appeals from this House. It is therefore good and good that the annual report of the Croatian Centre for Agricultural Food and the Village is submitted not only to the Ministry of Resort as provided for by this law, but also to the committee responsible that we can encourage certain specific actions and on the import of wine, but also to the golden jaundice as well as the overall situation in the winemaking of this country. Now something about a metric. This proposal regulates the conditions relating to geographical areas of vine cultivation, permitted vine cultivation crops, protected designations of origin, protected geographical indications, establishment of a national wine growing committee, promotional and marketing marking and presentation of wine. The competences and powers of authorised public authorities, the part-round of the Croatian Centre for Agricultural Food and the Village, the part-round agricultural paying agencies for rural development, the wine register, marketing advertising, administrative and inspection supervision of the wine inspection and the infringement provisions shall be governed. The framework for carrying out activities, production and sales with a purpose of combating the gray market is clearly defined. The process is decentralised from the analytical evaluation of wine in wine regions with the aim of bringing the manufacturer assessment system closer, so regional organisations propose assessors and the evaluation is carried out at the level of the region. The law provides for 4 vineyard regions of Slavonia and Croatian Danube, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and central and coastal Croatia. I agree with the opinion of my colleague Felaka, Mr. Secretary of State, winemakers from northern Croatia are not the most satisfied with this statement because central and hilly Croatia is losing identity in other regions and clearly defined area, it is known what is Slavonia, what is Croatian Podunavlje, what is Istria, what is Kvarner, but the central banks Croatia is one broad area where the identity of wine growing regions of Zagorje, Međimurje and other regions that belong there. I know that there is a possibility under the region, but I think that region should be inserted into this word of SZ Croatia, as my colleague Felak said. In order to disbursement the wine sector from parafiscal burdens, the total costs related to fees for issuing a solution for placing wine on the market and for issuing a solution shall be settled from the state budget. The system of registration marks is abolished, and through other administrative measures, monitoring the traceability of wine and the wine sector is released with 12 million kunas of 33%, Mr. Bulj, discharge from existing regulations. So these are concrete measures, these are concrete measures, it's nothing, it's a lot, it's nothing. And I'm curious, I'd like to hear what you're proposing once, and I'd be very interested in that, and I think you'll say that in your little debate that took less than usual this time. This return of 12 million kuna to the sector, no less important and further monitoring of traceability, which is important to allow for a strong step in marketing and branding of domestic wines, which is now a responsibility for regional offices and manufacturers who know how to do this and do it best. It's a concrete measure, Mr. Bull. As I have already mentioned, except that viticulture represents a very important branch of Croatian agriculture, so the production of wine through history marks visibility, and in recent times brand or trademark of a particular vineyard region of the Republic of Croatia. It is precisely why we are tasked to worry about the preservation of vineyards and in every way possible to prevent and stop the monster... The 21st century of phytoplasm or golden jaundice, because it could happen that in 10 years there will be no more vineyards on the hills in Croatia's Zagorje, but there will be these forests and chicars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, my colleague Bulj, I propose a concrete measure in including the state to finance insecticide, to divide it into people and to control it later. It's a concrete measure. With this in relation to the protection of domestic vineyards from... the wine, which you were saying, which is from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which are called wine from the outside must be even more where and where more effective because they cannot do it themselves, so here we must increase the frequency of control. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one defends us, only those controls must not be segmented or targeted, but all importers must be equally represented and therefore this law is a good foundation. In particular, provisions on the release of the sector from parafiscal burdens and the detour of those funds into marketing and branding. These are concrete measures and it needs words. The HDZ Club will back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97584	Thank you, too. Mr. Bully asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97585	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Mosta Club, I demand a break to consult on this law that simply does not give any measure, does not give a solution because at this point it is evident that imports also increased from 13 million liters in 2013 to 31 million litres more than 140% compared to 2016. The measures, yes, we will discuss these measures, the winemakers' fund and the winemakers' cellars 200 million kuna, the 0% VAT for the machinery, for the winemakers, means one fund to be established and that people compete and not that 3 thousand 729 OPGs say that this measure will bring 12 million kunas to this European billing, we can't, and that means not three thousand kunas per OPG. So let the fund one stay for the winemakers but is not interested because the interest here is that the import lobby within the ministry by 140% is increased imports of wine 140% while our vineyards remain defenseless, go secretaries, down to the field, defenseless, cannot sell their grapes while we import from Macedonia, look. ... that these papers you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] there is no measure, no measure that is positive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Vineyards unguarded imports grow by 140% because our vermin are in the ministry and this law is worth nothing without measures, it's zero. Take it to the minister, when he could have six drivers and six vehicles then he can have 200 kunas, 200 thousand kunas can give, 200 million kunas for winemakers and winemakers. And this law... Have one of his drivers come and get him... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97586	Excuse me, the break is approved and get yourself a new law now because this one is already destroyed. ... Thank you very much. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, no, no, a break of 10 minutes means 10.25. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You want to take a break or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97587	I asked for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97588	You want to take a break here?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97589	Wherever you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97590	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97591	Where you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97592	You can go here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97593	Or call Andrej Plenkovic, he may tell you where the meeting must be, as he tells you and how to behave.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97594	Mr. Bully, I was just asking if you were going to take a break or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97595	So ask Andrej Plenkovic or else you're his obedient.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97596	... I gave you a break. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's 10.16 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.24 HOURS]] And despite what is still going on, we will continue, Mr. Varda is in front of the Club of Labour Representatives and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives. And some independent agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97598	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. I'm going to try to be brief, actually not repeat what colleagues have so far been saying about statistical data from your opening part of the proposal in the first reading. I also come from the fact that the first reading in the Parliament serves to make the proposal hear proposals and opinions, including criticism of the proposed text, and that the proposals, opinions and criticisms will take into account the final draft of the law, so let me just say a few words on behalf of the club only about certain points of this law. What bothers me especially and my club, including us all together, is the export of our wines and the import of foreign wines. You yourself say this is the result of the entry of the Republic of Macedonia into the EU, that this is the result of bilateral agreements with the EU and preferential treatment on wine imports. But now I'm pulling a parallel here. You gave here a legal framework and through a wine inspection related to the production of grapes, wine and its quality. I don't see it or maybe it's the subject of another law, how to control the import of wine related to quality. Is it possible that a liter of wine from Macedonia or two liters of plastic can cost 8.9 kn? At the price of the packaging. The price of production, the price of transportation. It can't be. It's just impossible. If it is contracts with preferential treatment, then it should be seen whether the Republic of Macedonia or some other country stimulates its wine producers in a certain way because they are surely at a loss. I'm in Kaufland the other day, so a box of six black butts from Spain, asshole 9, 99 kn. That's impossible. I'll bring it to you, I'll buy a box to try. Six bottles. I only drank with the company of one, I don't drink the other. I'll get it for you. 9.99 kn. Guys, are we following her? Do we control quality? I don't know, I'm not sure. I don't know what people drink but the increase in imports of such wine especially from Macedonia and not only from Macedonia results in the demand of our people with small pensions, with small salaries. They buy that wine. I can afford it here and there, I'm not exactly a 40, 50 kn wine and buttock, or if the trade chains, for example, Plodine and Kaufland and Tommy have an action of Orahovica wine in the buttocks, I don't know, green Silvanac, white pinot of 19.99, and I know it's a good wine. I know that wine is good, 19.99. I mean, okay. Since I'm not a winery, I'm not even a sommelier, I don't really understand much. But what I like fits. I don't drink much. I'll have a glass of wine for lunch and that's it. So the question here is the ratio of exports and imports. Our exports are stagnating. He's always around. It's always out there, by volume, somewhere, and through the equivalent of the euro. But God's imports are growing in awe. So, I don't see and repeat again, maybe it's the subject of some other law. How, if we gave the legal framework for the secure gray market in the Republic of Croatia, surely, how to control imports. How do you control it? What's that wine in there, what's that in those bottles? I can understand that Iloki basements in what's called, in that box not with a tap, I don't know, sell illoč's peas 3 liters of 29 kuna. He probably has a production or I don't know. I don't know what quality it is, but it's 29.99. So below 10 kuna liters. He has to mate with the Macedonians. What kind of wine is it, I don't know, but if we're giving a legal framework for something, then I'm asking you nicely and we're setting up that wine inspection which is fine, it used to have Austro-Hungarian. It's Hungary, I remember when I was traveling while I was working on an oil pipeline in Hungary, they weren't allowed to bake brandy, and we just recently introduced it without their finances coming through the boilers. So they kept the Austro-Hungarian laws and kept the quality and their... We just did something for those distillates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I'd like you to think about that when you're making a final bill. And what I still wanted to refer to. A colleague, Križanić, spoke about art. Ten. I think you have to... fix it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now it's not a joke, Art. Seven. It's not a joke. You're talking about geographical areas of vine cultivation, and then when I read like a layman that article, chapter 4, you say, the area of the Republic of Croatia is divided into four vineyard regions. So is Slavonia and Podunavlje Croatian, so Istria and Kvarner is Croatian, so the central banks of Croatia are Croatian and Dalmatia – Dalmatia is not Croatia. I mean, a little joke. I understand why that is, and you think about it. Think of an expression because this is really how someone who does not know how to read the Law and the provision might turn out that Dalmatia is not in Croatia. So, all in all, given what I said in the introduction, that first reading serves to make comments, suggestions, and criticisms to the proposed Law in the first reading, I am convinced that in the second reading you will come from the Final Proposal for a Law that will be suitable for adoption. In this regard, the Labour Party Club, solidarity, reformers and Independent MPs will also behave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97599	Thank you, Mr. Varda. Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, and Mr Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97600	Thank you. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The Wine or Adjustment Act, always some adjustments while on the right side of life we have a chain of trade, say Lidl, that sells the spray for 19.99. A kilo of spray is a brother-brother minimum 15 kuna, if you're making top-of-the-line wine, and you need 2.5.3 kilos to make a bottle. What are we saying? So that's the key problem. So, no problem adapting to the law, are we going to go to some... which we should have done long ago, before we entered the EU, but the problem is that there is no control of wine on shelves and so that the wines that come from Macedonia, Montenegro, which even colleagues mentioned, from the new world, are sold either rinfuzely or in mixtures, be careful under which, under the name of even a dingo or a blue man, small or a bang. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I repeat, how much is a kilo, say, of grapes on Peljesac. But I hope we're all aware here that Croatian winemaking, I say winemaking, can't vineyarding have the largest pass where? Through an invisible export called Croatian tourism. And exactly in this law there is no, and serious states do, and the serious state is very close to Croatia. It is one Austria which through hidden, I say through hidden, but even some direct forms of incentive subsidizes the creation of certain tourist wine clusters, so as one Internet to say, even in a theoretical sense, it is called diagonal clustering, the creation of a wine cluster, which makes the producers of bottles that we have in the Republic, the manufacturers of plugs, producers, so the winemakers, and then the institutions come to you. So here comes a state institution that takes care of marketing and promotion and you get institutes. It exists. So, that there's not gonna tell you just in California, there's you very close. There's you in Italy, there's you in Austria. So, it's the only way that you can systematically, but I say systematically and in hidden, even hidden support, so that other ministries and other institutions should be involved, because as you well know, I think that even England and Ireland, there is a certain filter fee for import wines, so that later, right into those clusters, because in this way, it actually helps exporters of wine, but not through hidden exports, but in fact, through one export to some other countries. Now, the law, therefore, was expected after 10, 15 20 years of what the village center or the institute is doing that through the law we will implement some mini-reform of winemaking and... but again we have actually received one little more harmonisation only with EU regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally expected that we would reduce the state's power over production, so that regional wine organisations would be allowed to do the different analyses themselves, although let's just say, let's be honest, so this little regionalization and the actual 4 offices might be a small step towards it, but be careful not to put it back on... some state bureaucracy, that it doesn't happen again by increasing the number of employees, even though the law says that these internal reserves will do so, but they were alive and seen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, according to my court, this centralized quality control of the wine, if with this emphasis of decentralisation, has not been defined, as I said at the outset, by the clear rules on the quality of the wine on the market, therefore, the control is over and gone. And you haven't defined the concept of regional wine, you've introduced regionalisation of wine areas, and I think it should be a step in more regionalisation of wine. So I'm talking again through some P.D. or through P.G.I. It would be good, I only give you suggestions and advice to try to simplify the wine administration, by electronic means and patterns, and also let us not forget here that any Croatian winemaker does not expect the market to buy its wines on the basis of labels, he gave it superbly, but actually buys on the basis of his last name in Croatia. So, we're with... So we didn't exactly have that zoo or the PDO in those 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now watch what happens these days, you actually because of the centralized Croatian system, means the time of the Portuguese, for example, what happens, people are waiting for the center to perform physical, chemical and... The properties, 2-3 weeks went and the portugizac went away from the small winemaker, because they were concentrated, precisely because of their centralization so far on several larger ones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, then, through all these legal solutions, you should definitely speed up the process, even more expensive, although this one step, as far as putting wine, which I now, as I understand, is ending, so that's about 20 million kunas a good start. And please think about what the top mark in Croatia is, because 1/3 of the state doesn't have it, let's imagine you're ending it, it's pretty subjective. For me, it's subjective, it's not necessary, think about it, absolutely unnecessary. And if I were to say, at least one part of these remarks that are in the first reading, let me say another grudge, so, and that's why different associations of winemakers, so Dalmatia and to Zagorje, that a bit of an awkward time was, for a public debate began, I think in 8 months. or so through the i-debate, people were a little bit of the preparation for grape harvests and so, a little too little time even though they were involved, to sort out some more of these things that could be fixed, especially to work on connecting, and I'm going to say, it's unfortunately becoming a floscule in Croatia, it's so-called. tourism and agriculture, production, which is actually winemaking, but it can be, I say, organised and I think that we could then protect domestic winemakers and domestic grape producers and that this law could be, more or less okay. But we, as SDP Representatives' Club, will be restrained in our first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97601	Thank you, too. Now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will speak Mrs. Goddess Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97602	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Speaking of the Proposal for a Wine Act, we simply need to specify some facts, so it is the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, there is already a negative trend in the wine sector, both in areas and in wine production. There was already a lot of data there, but I will only make sure that the total area of the vineyard in 2007 was 32000 2016. Twenty-three thousand. That we had the production of grapes in 2007. 198,000, so almost 200 thousand tons of grapes, 2016. 123. And the production of wine, and that's why we're falling, it's cut in half. However, what raises doubts about the correctness of this data is the nature of one cane per kilogram. So in 2007, we had 1.7 kg, and 2016. 1.3 kilos per pack or per cane. We know that not all the damages from the golden jaundice have been recorded, we know that a certain number of vineyards may have been decommissioned, perhaps not in use, but these are data that could be said, that what we love for statistics is an accurate set of incorrect data, but not that the statistical institute has misread it, but they have done it on the basis of the available and delivered data. So that's why it's good, that and a little bit of control is being introduced in that area. Namely, the wine producers in the Republic of Croatia are in great difficulty, and we have heard this from all the speakers so far, primarily because of the large imports of wine. Whether it was imported from third countries or it came from third countries across the EU, so that's where the controls went, but the fact is everything my colleagues said before, so I won't repeat it, but what still exists in our country is a problem with the gray market that is ruling in the Republic of Croatia. Every year... It's getting bigger. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2016 we imported 31 million liters of wine worth 30.8 million kuna. So the wine we imported we imported at an average price of less than 1 euro. If we take that for import and part of quality wine to be imported, that wine all the rest turns out to be about five kunas a liter. It's a price our wine producers certainly can't fight and certainly can't compete with. At the same time, we exported 3.6 million liters of wine, so 10 times less than we imported. The value of this exported wine is 10 and a half million kuna, which means that the price that we achieve in exports is around 3 euros, which is something more, although there we have the really high quality and the average wine we export, but this proves that further regulation of this important sector is needed. According to official statistics, we have 21 900 hectares of vineyards, and according to the register of the paying agency with 31.12., we had 21,000 which is not and such a huge deviation, but 1100 hectares of production potential are included in that area and are not connected to any agricultural holding. The new Wine Act adopts a legal framework for the production of grapes and wine, the sale of wine, in market-transparent conditions, strengthens the role of wine associations and promotes the marketing of wine. The new law provides for less administration and greater control on the ground. The most important of its features should help our winemakers through the establishment of these 4 new regions, which are neat and wine and marketing, the establishment and financing of regional wine-making organisations and the national committee, the removal of the records marks, increased control and production of grape and wine traffic, the decentralised process of organoleptic wine evaluation by wine regions and what will certainly contribute to making our statistics more realistic is to include small producers in the system of control without financial burdens. The proposal of the Wine Act enables the association of winemakers and winemakers at regional level to play a more active role in promotional activities and jobs of the marketing marking of Croatian wines, as well as the evaluation of wine. It also provides for a way to finance marketing activities and develop the production specification in the framework of the activities of regional organisations. This law clearly defines a different framework for the production of grapes for its own needs in a very limited range of areas up to 0.1 hectares from those producers of grapes, must and wine in the production, entrepreneurial and market-oriented undertaking. Therefore, Article 10 of the proposal makes it clear who is considered a producer of grapes, must and wine and wine filler. Procedures for more effective administrative control of all data that grape and wine producers are required to deliver. According to the current law, there is also a obligation to deliver a declaration of harvest, a declaration of production and a declaration of supply of wine provided for in this new law, however, in addition to this statement in Article 27(2), it is proposed to submit, in addition to these statements, a statement to the paying agency on the expected harvest. We at the HNS Club consider that statement to be an unnecessary additional administration. In fact, we don't know, and I'd like to ask you to explain to us the purpose of that statement about the expected harvest. That's something we're predicting. That data from previous years has also been provided by the agency. Whether something unexpected will happen, what a elemental accident, that neither the manufacturer nor the agency can predict. So would you really be praying if an administrative discharge was foreseen why is this new obligation being introduced? We well consider a solution that strengthens the control on the ground by field wine supervisors with the purpose of verifying the compliance of the data delivered with the actual state, which strengthens the system of traceability, production of grapes and wine. We believe that this will mean more control, not only for our producers, but for all wines, primarily for those coming from foreign markets, but also for the gray zone. When we talk about establishing new regions which are also wine and marketing we are talking about 4 regions as already mentioned, means Slavonia and Croatian Podunavlje, Croatia Istria and Kvarner, Dalmatia and the central banks of Croatia. I'm not much of a special, which is why I'm proposing to do this now, and I really need this, which is the central banks of Croatia, regardless of the possibility of setting up certain regions to change that name, whether it will be northern Croatia, whether it will be added central and SZ, northern and central, but please still see it. We have here in Article 5(2), which reads: With the aim of organisation and implementation of professional businesses, according to this law, the centre establishes regional offices according to the wine growing regions referred to in Article 7(4) of this Act. We're just wondering if they might also know about the seats of these regional offices where the cities are either going to be dealt with by the regulations or if we're going to know until the second reading. What is still good and what is important to note is that we have these regional employment centres, which are forming and hiring employees, but these employees will not be a special burden for winemakers, so they will not burden the price of a bottle of wine what our winemakers were afraid of but will be financed from the state budget. The decentralisation of wine controls before placing on the market as close as possible to the wine regions, so organoleptic wine control will no longer be carried out only in Zagreb, but will be carried out in these centres. The Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village will provide essential infrastructure for the assessment of wine and guarantee the anonymity of the sample. In fact, the EU rule states that impartiality and objectivity must be ensured in implementing the rules in order to protect consumers and preserve the credibility of the entire wine production system. Control systems in the area of wine must rest on the same principles as control systems in the area of food safety. It is the rule of the EU, meaning impartiality and objectivity but I believe that through this law, we will, in all other laws and in our daily lives, exactly adhere to this impartiality, objectivity and transparency in everything. As a result, the Institute for Vineyards retains the role of the sensory evaluation holder. The process includes regional winemakers' organisations, which will be proposed by the assessors and only the wine evaluation will be carried out by a commission with the majority of the regional assessors represented. This ensures that the quality of the evaluation and the quality of the wines themselves is raised because the evaluation process is carried out by evaluators who know the region best because they come from that region. And what is still very important and important is that we, in the HNS, consider it to be precisely the discharge of the wine sector from parafiscal loads. In fact, all costs related to fees for issuing a solution for placing wine on the market will no longer be paid by the producer but will be financed from the state budget and that is cca. Ten million kunas. The system of registration marks is also abolished because the traceability is now monitored in other ways that the wine sector is relieved with an additional 2 million kuna. So these 12 million kunas now remaining in the wine sector will be able to engage in other fields, which are primarily promotional activities. These promotional activities should be carried out through regional wine producers’ organisations. And indeed, these regional wine companies expect much and will expect more. I'm afraid they'll be able to meet their expectations, their demands. That's why it's very important for these people to be prepared. I know that we also have certain people who organize winemakers, who educate them, who point them to it, but now they will simply if they are members of that regional organization right here, they have to look for everything they had to look for in more places. Here's the HNS club to support the first reading of this bill. I believe you will appreciate the remarks made here, with which many agree. And I personally asked some questions on behalf of the club that I expect answers to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97603	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Davor Vlaovic's turn in front of the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97604	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state with associates. Here's a few words about this Wine Act in front of the HSS Club. In fact, the entire interested public, and in particular the wine sector, expected much of this Wine Act, say in this letter in an e-debate, in a public debate in the draft of this law that they expected to implement a minimum reform of winemaking and winemaking through this law, that we would get a framework for EU wine labelling according to geographical origin. We also expected that he would once and for all break up with former state wine policies, from the former system. However, they think and say in their statement that what was agreed at meetings with representatives of producers and associations was not respected and that the most important part was again administratively changed and that they were not satisfied with the proposed law and representatives of the other association say about this law that they were expecting major shifts, that this law would make small shifts in the wine sector and that it was only, beware of the expression, a small sigh until the re-loss of air in wine production. It is important that we could even further discuss this Wine Act to reiterate the problem of reducing the areas under the vineyards in the Republic of Croatia, that our exports are still too small for our imports to grow slightly. Here are just a few figures, exports are 4693 tonnes and imports are 24902 tonnes. And what concerns us in particular is that the biggest imports remain from Macedonia and then beyond that are other wine regions such as France, Italy, Germany. And it is also important to know that our exports grew the most in BiH. And it is important that in general policies according to that market we must protect domestic producers and not lose that part of the market. And very slowly or slightly we grow in those markets that are our orientation in Germany, Italy, the United States, even though we are seeing a slight increase. But the key issue is the control of these imports because we still believe that the number of controls that occur at the border and when they are placed on the market by the Republic of Croatia is too small and that our producers do not believe that all mechanisms have been applied to protect our market from such cheap wines, especially from Macedonia. The main observation of the association is that the new law violates the most significant EU regulation 607 of 2009 which clearly lays down rules relating to the protection of geographical origin and the protection of the designation of origin and its Article. Article 25 63. The regulations to which they are called are incorrectly interpreted on their part by Regulation 607 of 2009, the proposal is for the administration to clarify this and to correct it by second reading or to withdraw from the procedure. And they reiterate that this bill is not the result of talks and agreements with associations and producers, but of a proposal from the administration. It was also written here in its example if we didn't already know how to write a quality law to protect domestic production, that we could prescribe some law from the countries of the environment that better protect their production, so here, one producer who has produced 5 hectares in Slavonia told me an example of France that had the same problem with hyperproduction, a problem with environment and imports, so they passed a law that protected their producers in such a way that the state controlled the area from which the vineyard was selected, how much grapes, how high it was, and set a minimum price below which the wine from that vineyard, from that area could not be placed on the market and on the other hand, guaranteed the placement of these wines in such a way that if the producer could not sell at that price, and some more successfully sold, that the country had taken over the plasma of that wine. And in the first years there were problems where the state almost 80% of production had to find the wine market with its own measures and its market demand, and only 20% of the producers were able to sell themselves. However, after a number of years of application of this Law, the situation is now reversed. Now producers sell 80% of their wine and not at the lowest price determined for their area, for their quality, so they go with a higher price and they have higher income and the state has higher income from the tax title, and only 20% of the wine placed on the market in France is regulated by the state. We have never had such a law, and we will not regulate the market in this way, but still remain our producers to have this market game alone on the market that is not available, because we see that imports are still huge, especially from imports from Macedonia and this division into 4 regions is well accepted with this observation that northwestern Croatia is also being classified, but they are afraid that this is only a marketing approach and that this will not go any further to help our producers, that besides this marketing approach it also needs a more serious approach to address these market problems. The problem is already in the part where grape harvest is announced because it is difficult for our producers to announce in advance the harvesting of grapes and how much of that vineyard will be harvested that year and then you know what is happening, that the maximum amount of grapes is reported and there is no actual control of the actual crop and the actual amount of grape produced, and then we don't have the actual amount of wine on the market because everyone does what they want. There is no good control and should go there in stricter control and help our manufacturers not to have producers appear to us in harvesting grapes when looking for their grape varieties that they have reported to buy, there are no grapes, and then their wines appear in spring on the shelves with a stamp and a label that they have produced. From what, from whom? Well, probably from imports. There's not enough control, and it's from practice. This is not what's out of the pocket, it's out of the head, it's out of practice, it's out of conversations with producers, winemakers and winemakers from our area. I would also point out here a problem with phytoplasm, a golden jaundice, by suppressing the vectors of a viral disease of our vineyards. I think we and through the thematic sessions on the Committee on Agriculture have pointed to a major problem. There has been a monitoring process, but far beyond that, it has not gone through the prevention of vectors because there is no real control, and I think it must be through the data we have that the disease has already spread, here and unfortunately there is a vector and in Slavonia, that it has to be monitored better, that the state has to provide the means to control this vector, but on the other hand the biggest problem is through those infected plantations, vineyards where the disease has been observed, and there are those that need to stop having a problem on the ground that has a lot of abandoned vineyards that no one controls, which no one has the authority to release, and they are the source of contagion further, and it has to be a major problem for those winemakers, and there are those who are aware, who have come out of their crops, that while they are demanding to refuse it, while they get their money, and for more than a year, and I think that it must be able to make a new product available for the next year's work. I think we're here as a society, and we're not protecting enough domestic production from this vicious disease, which must be a great danger to our winemaking and vineyarding and for the future. Here I ask the Secretary of State to clarify this remark in their final address why winemakers, winemakers, winemakers, are in violation of this EU provision and how they intend to bring our legislation into line with this or how they think to connect our producers with the domestic market because we see that exports are slow, praiseworthy actions by the HGK that pay our winemakers to fairs in Germany and other European countries. I think that there should be other state institutions involved, but I think our greatest chance for our winemakers is to sell wine on the threshold through strengthening continental tourism and by connecting our winemaking and winemaking with the tourism sector where we haven't taken advantage of this potential where we can certainly place a lot of our wines. And here, in order to continue to enjoy domestic wines with quality designations of origin and protected origin, we must also adapt our legislation to European winemakers and allow our winemakers to have a smaller cost, on this side we welcome the administrative discharge and financial discharge of our winemakers and winemakers but surely we need to make additional efforts to make this law really one reform of winemaking and winemaking in Croatia and I think we should reconsider the models of support for the planting of new vineyards because those models that we once had have shown results and a lot of new ones have been raised, but we can't leave them alone on the market now, but we all have to engage more actively in the placement of these wines so here, once again, let's buy Croatian, let's buy Croatian wines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97605	Thank you. Now there are individual debates, the first is Mr. Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97606	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Secretary of State, of the production of grapes and wine and income, does not get rich, of which it is lived, or survives with the moss in the rural area of Croatia, so when we look at this data from the table of the production of grapes and wine, comparison from 2007 to 2016, and when we see that there is a reduction in the total area of vineyards and the number of canees and the production of grapes and wine, when we see that this declines, we do not have to wonder why complete families from rural areas where winemaking may have been, the vineyard was just a secondary extra income left in those areas, going to Ireland. In my personal presentation on the replica, I said that I come from a wine growing area that has over 13 million chocolate vines, that you now come here today to the area of Vrgorac, the town of Ploč or the municipality of Pozerje, you will see that half of the vineyards have not been robbed at all, that is the policy that Croatia is leading to our peasants who are engaged in wine, and many of these families, that is income, the only walk in the family. When we sum up the total area of the vineyard, we see that this really falls, production of wine in 2010, 2011. 1,43 million hectolitres, 2016 to 2017 760,000 hectolitres. It's halved. So we're not talking about a 10.12% drop, we're talking about a 50% drop. When we talk about a new decline, this means that reduced revenues, secondary incomes to many families, many of the OPGs that were based on these revenues, as I said, remained in these areas. And indeed, all these families, all these family farms, people who rely on production and grapes and wine and wine and deal with the basement were expecting one reform law, a law that would fit in the protection and defence of Croatian peasants, winemakers and winemakers and what are we actually getting by this law? When we look at the objections in public debates and comments, we see that many winemakers and winemakers are dissatisfied. I don't really know who you were talking to, who you consulted when this law was passed or this bill was put into public debate. I really think that since this part of winemaking and winemaking is one of the primary agricultural branches that can rely heavily on tourism, further development of the tourist offer and enrich our tourist offer, we need to know that you have larger national resources provided for all our winemakers and winemakers and especially winemakers. So right now, we don't have the national resources that I know of to which a young winemaker or winemaker might come, everything is left to certain EU funds, specifically rural development measures, sixes, last measures 6.3, and how we are, in fact, in measure 6.3, we now refer to specific mountain-mounted areas. All those positive, extra points, that before ours and the winemakers and the winemakers had, they don't have them now. And when you look at the acceptable costs, it's... Mechanization. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With us now in our area 143 applications went to this next measure 6.3, the mah is mechanization. And when I talk a little deep with all our winemakers and winemakers, everyone invests in machinery, doesn't invest in basements, doesn't invest in wine envelopes because they can't apply to anything. They don't have their money, they can't even apply to grants, they have unresolved property-legal relations. How many vineyards or wine areas in Croatia have solved property-legal relations, have written down real-life conditions in the cadastre, in the land and solved them, means all of those assumptions that they even report to grants, how much? No wonder there are large wineries in Vrgorec, in Imotskoma, the work of Drniš closed. The bankruptcy proceedings are ongoing, the main... debtors again to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia will not be free of it, so it simply completely fails. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which fund can be contacted by units of local self-government most often co-operated with agronomic colleges during clone selection of indigenous varieties because we really need to return to indigenous varieties and produce wines from indigenous varieties to be somewhat competitive on the market. What events can we report to? In particular, we in Vrgorec have one event, one of the biggest for our winemakers, the days of Dalmatian prosciutto and wine. Do you know how much we got from events that cost 200 000 kuna of aid from state institutions, specifically the Ministry of Tourism and the Tourist Board of Croatia? Ten thousand kuna. I'll write when I get back to the bottom of this, and I'll pay back those 10,000 kunas. And we are now talking about marketing, promoting, helping our winemakers, and just come to the region of Dalmatia, Dalmatian burning, and you will see the reeds of unguarded grapes both in the area of Imotski and in the area of Sinj and in the area of... and in the area of Vrgorec. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Agrocenters, where can agrocenters, wine centers, wine centres, where can we apply? Where are the concrete measures from rural development where such a type of infrastructure could be reported? Well, it doesn't exist. Now there are certain indications, now there are indications when the vineyards are unearthed, when the vineyards are abandoned. I don't understand that we can't really encourage one of the most important branches of agriculture under the system that in this one bill we had one fund for winemakers and winemakers, that the state budget is guaranteed 200 million kuna and that it is one impulse, one additional incentive for all winemakers not to really leave the vineyards, but to produce wines from the indigenous varieties of our varieties. So not from varieties that are imported, that are bought, so they're done here because such wines can't be a competitor at all. As far as imports are concerned, we have a lot of wine coming from the area, as we have said Macedonia and are said to be top wine. Who controls that it's really top-notch wine? Is this really going through all of our national centres, the centres that control our winemakers that and really because in our parameters of top wine, that indeed Macedonian wine has a mark of top quality? Where there is also the base of all our winemakers and winemakers as regards indigenous varieties and all those wines that come to the market through these indigenous varieties. And instead of helping our winemakers, winemakers and winemakers, mostly from the region of Dalmatia where I come from because now imagine that 30 kilometers is completely our coast where we can be given absolutely and sold all the wine quantities on the market, we simply don't help them with this law, but we leave everything as it will be, we will see it in the next years when the reports 2018/19,20. the total area will decrease, imports will increase, their own production will decrease. There will be no radical, rapid turn and then let's not talk about why our young people from the rural area of Croatia, it is 85% of Croatia's area of emigration, why they go to Ireland, why complete families leave, and from wine they can still live on. You have an example specifically in our neighborhood of a guy who studied here in Zagreb dentistry, came back to Vrgorac, raised the indigenous plantations of the wine vine, pushed through the wines alone, without anyone's help and remained there, will start a family, we help as much as the city do, but I do not see certain measures specifically by the Ministry of Agriculture and certain means where local self-government can finance support in agriculture, specifically in winemaking. So I really think that this law, as much as you say 12 million kunas of discharge through various administrations, when you divide it into 3729 farmers who are in the wine register who have recorded wine production, it comes out to you about 3,000 kunas of help under the OPG that is producing wine. If it's a reform to help with 3,000 kunas to some OPG, then I really don't know what to tell people whether to stay or simply go from Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97607	You have three replicas. The first is Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97608	Thank you very much, Mr. Pranic. It's clear to everyone, I think it's clear to the ministry's colleagues that nothing radical about this law will change, and these stories about discharges, as you yourself said, if you help someone with 1000, 2 kunas, the annual discharges will certainly not increase their competitiveness, nor help him do what he should do, which is to increase production and place his products. What you said in your debate is one of the key problems. So our ministry is as if it's in his interest to, and probably the EU, and it's in the interest that European money is spent solely on machinery, on new machines that come from imports again. I would say the EU gives money, big money for agriculture that passes through our ministry and then return to those producers that are foreigners, who sell us the machinery. It's basically the wrong policy of our ministry that doesn't look at the interest of our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97609	Thank you, too. Is that the answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97610	Mr. Maras absolutely understands you here in your replica and I don't understand that the particular ministry can have 5 official drivers, and it can't question some fund of 50 million or I don't know, something small, at least for events, 10 million kuna to help winemakers and winemakers. We always rely on European money. But if we have a strategic one branch in agriculture that is based on another strategic tourism branch, then it is not our budget that cannot single out our own national resources that would help all winemakers, winemakers and winemakers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97611	The second line has a Mr. Marko Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97612	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Pranic, I'd like to agree with you that we should think about some help that should be given to small winemakers who unfortunately do well and give up the production of vineyards, from the production of wine, here I can say that in Zagorje we unfortunately have more and more abandoned areas where there were once vineyards, and I have to say that the quality of wine has risen greatly. Partly the reason is that, here we have in the past few years had several more serious natural disasters than fighting, frost, this gentleman is one of the few where we have not witnessed these elemental disasters and people have suffered great damage. I am aware that the state in its budget cannot compensate for these millions of damages. However, we have not even established any model of co-financing of insurance, where we will not only large winemakers, who will of course do it because of this exclusively living, but also the small ones in some way give them the opportunity to ensure and continue to deal with winemaking and winemaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97613	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97614	Comrade Vesligaj, we come from similar mountainous mountainous areas of Croatia and when there are no countries for elemental damage, we have seen that there is not much for mountainous mountainous areas, nor for assisted areas. We are looking specifically at this law, there is nothing more significant from national resources to help winemakers and winemakers, what kind of policy is this towards the rural territory of Croatia? It's a policy simply to tell people, get your own way in Ireland, as you can. We, the state, can't help you. It may help you to be in Zagreb, to be in Split to be in Osijek, Rijeka, we have set up a state of urbanization, urban environments. As far as rural areas are concerned, when you look at these sets of laws, which come to Parliament's procedures, and including this law, which should help winemakers, winemakers, because they will not be winemakers and winemakers in the center of Zagreb and in the center of Split, they will be in the rural area, when we see such a law and such inconclusive measures, we do not have to ask ourselves why people leave our parts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97615	The third line has Mrs. Gordana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97616	Ugly to correct you. My dear colleague, you mentioned the insolvency of property legal issues and the inability of applications. Well, of course, it's a basic prerequisite in every application for a competition, and that's what we all need to think about very carefully and to support that, to the greatest extent possible, property legal relations, land books, and so on, it's creating a prerequisite for something concrete to be done. And the repeat of the mantra is also the reason for young people to go, so we have this situation 70-80 years old and still, especially in our neighborhoods, the Dalmatians, where we haven't had the habit of solving property legal relations, I don't think that's what it is, can't be tied to a law like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97617	Thank you very much. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97618	Dear colleagues, I did not want to raise that question in my debate, specifically, in our winery, meaning in the area as... 24 thousand plots, geodetic footage was taken 2007/2008. For seven years, he was standing in a drawer for not moving a land book like... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm not saying how much our farmers lost or, in this area, when they were legalized, they weren't supposed to shoot geodetically, so it was simply standing in ministry drawers, only thanks to former Justice Minister Sprlja, where it was actually launched, means that one investment of 10 million kn is reasonable, but it's simple today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today it's slow and we can't talk today. But I would feel free to do the same thing today, so you can go down to Vrgorec, to Poezer, to the municipality to the part of the town of Ploća, so when you see on the reeds of the unguarded grapes, the leaves of the vines, ask people if they will stay in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97619	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Gordan Maras' turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, at the beginning, I must say, that I have remained a little bit and astounded with the previous debate of my colleagues with the last replica, where Mrs. Peric mentioned that the constant mention of the mantra is being made of young people from Croatia. Regrettably, such bagatelisation of the departure of young people from Croatia and the messages sent in this way from the Croatian Parliament do not contribute to people seeing the perspective in our country, but rather to the contrary, that they move more and more every day, and unfortunately it is a fact, Mrs. Peric, a hundred thousand people have gone away. We do not say that the Wines Act can return these hundreds of thousands to Croatia, but every law that we bring here must be looked at from the perspective of whether people will stay in Croatia, see the perspective here, whether they will be busy, whether they will feel just and whether we will send such a message to them. When we say mantra, it's baguellised and that problem then, apparently to you from HDZ seems negligible and you don't think about it at all. The fact is that people are leaving, hundreds of thousands of people have gone past years never such an exodus, not even in the most difficult times, past centuries and thousands of years in Croatia, so many people from Croatia have left. Never, as it went in 2016, 2017. And that should be thought about when we talk about any law. And when we look at this law, I'm starting to say that I don't think it'll bring any damage, but unfortunately, it won't bring too much benefit. What my colleague Pranic was saying earlier, because a man lives in the middle or a colleague of Veligaj from the Croatian Zagorje, says that small OPGs, wine producers, and even those slightly larger wineries, do not see and feel the support of the Croatian Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. If that's the case, we don't have to debate too much, we don't have to have some discussions between ourselves, because that's what the promoter saw, because as long as there's no support, it's obvious that production is going down. When you look at this dramatic decline from 2015 to 2016, even 20% less production in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, only 10% of the less processed area speaks about how much the government takes care of our vineyards. And it is, in fact, true that it is obvious to someone and corresponds to this increased import of wine and cheap wine, unquality wines that enter the Republic of Croatia. Because when you see imports rising rapidly and now it's at 30 million liters it says that the average price of import wine is the euro per litre of our exporting 3 euros. So 3x cheaper import wine so much and maybe more times less than ours. And the problem is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is unable to find models to help winemakers and to strengthen domestic production. And this is a key issue, and it is not a key issue that is being raised here as something spectacular, and it is not essentially that 12 million kunas are discharging the entire sector, said counterpart Pranic 4 thousand OPGs. So three thousand kunas on average per OPG will certainly not help increased wine production. And on the other hand, the greatest creativity this law shows is the names of the region. So when we see how creative someone in the Ministry of Agriculture has thought to be called the central bank of Croatia. So that's the maximum of creativity that we've seen in this law that they've inserted a hill into the name of one of the regions. And on that side, normally, we can neither expect any spectacular solutions nor can we expect the situation to improve for the next few years. It can only be repaired if the state significantly financially stands behind its producers, if we react to less quality products with certain customs duties and increase the price of import wines, which is why we do not protect our production, which is why it does not show what high quality wine means. Some colleagues have said well, it is an incomparable difference between what we are valorising in Croatia and what some other countries call high-end wines. Yes, after the first bottle you buy and try, you probably won't buy another time, but it's also a particular consumer scam especially for products that don't come from the EU area. We import more than half of the wine spent in the Republic of Croatia from only one country. And that is why it is necessary to protect its production and its limitations and control and higher duties for importers, higher duties for importers, on the other hand to help our producers financially, but not in the way I said earlier and which is mostly done in the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture that everyone has now gone to the machinery and thus we are returning the money that comes from the EU through the products that we buy from Germany and other EU countries. So the Ministry of Agriculture should take care of how the more benefits our producers have and how the more that money stays in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Agriculture has turned into a PR agency where funds, money are being used. And now I'm asking a question here, so if it's so much money withdrawn, if it's so much invested in Croatian agriculture, then why is Mr. Secretary of State less production? For what? So we invest more and more money and less and less money, less and less production we have in Croatia. That's it, no. 1st or someone misplanned or threw money into the blank or, surely, Croatian farmers have absolutely no use for it, i.e. they create some false hope, false security that the withdrawal of that money will make Croatian agriculture flourish. We need to see the money invested to increase production. That's the only measure. Well, it's not the Ministry of Agriculture's flow water heater, so the more it pulls, the more it leaks out that thickens the pipe to get through as much water as possible. It is important for us to have as much production and jobs in the Republic of Croatia as possible of the money withdrawn from the EU, so that would be logical. So the gentlemen who at the Ministry of Agriculture every little shout and boast, I was at a farm fair, just like, I felt like we were in some countries that only live on agriculture, everything's great, there's money, there's funds, but there's no production. Foods and wine in Croatia are becoming less and less every day and every year, less and less employees and people are leaving. It is a shame that vineyards stand abandoned on both Croatian islands and Dalmatia and in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. That state doesn't give any support, it doesn't stand behind these people. And when you buy a mechanism, it does not mean that it will suddenly start to promote, or produce more wine, and that we will benefit more from it. And that's why I can't be for or against this law. So this law is a document that just needs to create the impression that something is happening and I say creativity has stopped in central Croatia. All the honour of those who thought of the hilly, that is, this adjective is the key that will help Croatian winemakers start producing as much wine as possible. If this adjective did not have a bountiful Croatia, the production of wine would probably be much lower. So please give us concrete things, don't entertain us anymore and waste time on something that won't help and create an impression of something being done and basically not doing anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97621	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, but I prefer to welcome the students and students of Eugen Kumičić High School from Opatija with teachers and teachers who are here with us today. Please welcome them with a round of applause. Give it up! Thank you for being here. And now we have three replicas. The first line has Mrs Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97622	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras, the greatest exodus of youth leaving and not so young was between the 50s and the 60s when so-called. The KP allowed them to go after another Tito with their stomachs. That doesn't mean there's no migration now. There's a reason why? Well, young people are looking for opportunities where they can make more money, and they are allowed to be EU members where labour mobility is much greater. Which doesn't mean we don't have the responsibility to create a prerequisite for our youngsters staying here. And I'm the mother of two children from whom one of these works for 2400 kunas of your SOR programme, the underestimating one who treated these same young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97623	Thank you, time. Mr. Maras must want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97624	Thank you very much. Mrs Grozdanna, here you are again about communism, partisans, Ustashas. That's what you're interested in, and unfortunately the fact is devastating for us and our country. During the HDZ party and other Andrej Plenkovic during 2017 and 2018, here are over 150 thousand people left the HDZ government in the year and two years respectively. During the HDZ party and other Andrej Plenkovic. So that's what you unfortunately only understand. You understand that language of returning to the old, and people every day, but they leave every day. And don't think you can relativize it with mantras or anything else. Try to face these people. Go to a bus station and see the people who escort their children into the world. That's what needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97625	Thank you. It's still nice when... It doesn't happen often. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now he's got a replica of Mr. Marco Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97626	Thank you. Here, I'll go back to the subject after all. Here, colleague Maras, I'm glad you noticed this name is very clumsy, central Croatia. I feel the same way, of course, that it's not good. But what surprised me very much in the e-consultation that several means, the winemaker, the producer also here in his comments mentioned that he was not good, and the ministry's response was that through e-consultation they did not get a better suggestion on how to call the wine region. Well, I mean, we live in the 21st century. The Republic of Croatia has great marketing experts, and the PR agencies and the ministry spend money on a variety of things. So was it a problem to hire those experts of the Croatian relevant and to give us good names because wine is like brand wine as one of the strongest... Croatian products should certainly be adequately branded, and this is what they do today, that's what people who have been trained to do. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] I think Croatian winemakers, given the quality they own, and they won awards on world markets, deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97627	Thank you, Mr. Vesligaj, but the answer will be, it cannot be answered by Mrs. Grozdana Peric, Mr. Maras will have to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97628	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vesligaj, you are aware that we have at the Ministry of Agriculture exclusively dealing with how to praise ourselves and explain how we do a great job, we withdraw funds, and therefore I can even imagine Minister Tolusic, a gentleman from Virovitica, as he read this central hilly Croatia, how his heart was suppressed and the tears of joy appeared in his eye, how they found a beautiful name in the Ministry of Agriculture. So that's all he cares about. Let's find the nicest name, so we can promote it, and then then boast about the newspaper that we've done something. But there's really no use in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97629	Thank you, too. Mr. Bojan Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Maras, interesting exposure. Just two very brief remarks. The first is that when you talk about taxing or customsing EU products, I think you should be careful here. So we had different suggestions earlier that weren't I would say quite professional or get fully familiar with how it might work, so then we just need to be very careful, and secondly, I'm not sure that the only reason we can't do it is because we're not doing it, or why we're not able to increase the production that the state didn't fit enough behind our producers or maybe not in the right way. I recently had a chance to see Iowa in the U.S., father and son processing 3.5 thousand acres of corn only with machines, the state only subsidized part of the damage insurance. So there can be more reasons for that. Here, so that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97631	Thank you. Mr. Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97632	There must be more reasons. I was talking about manufacturing outside the EU. Read in the material, more than half of the imports come from a country that is outside the EU, which offers its wines here and on this side I have appealed to see how to protect our production. So, consumption is the same or even rising, tourism is increasing every year. Well, look what the paradox is. In Croatia comes, so it's mantra, every season is record, more and more tourism comes and we get consumption of our wine falling. Does that make any sense to you? Well, that's amazing. So here in Croatia in tourism, here are these children from Opatija who will be many of them tourist workers and do tourism, we work for someone else, Mrs Grozdan. The wine we import sells to foreigners and earns their income and they benefit from our tourism, that's what I'm talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97633	Time, thank you, too. We move on, we continue with individual debates, Mr. Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97634	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The last Wine Act was passed in 2003, since certain amendments have been made and I therefore believe it is very important that the ministry has decided to change this law in order to consolidate European and national rules in the wine sector at the level of a single legal solution. Thus, by this new law, the fees for placing wine on the market are lifted which, with the removal of the stamps, generates a savings of 12 million kunas that are planned to invest in the wine industry and represents a discharge of our winemakers in the amount of about 33% as you said, secretary of state. In addition, it is planned to establish 4 vineyard regions as well as the recognition of 4 regional wine producers organisations and precisely 4 regions are the basis for promotion and enhanced marketing activities of regional winemakers and winemakers. Also, decentralisation of the procedure is proposed... The assessment of wine by wine regions, where regional organisations propose the self-evaluation, and given that the evaluation is carried out by assessors who are best known to the properties of the wine of certain regions and which means that this proposal will not take place, for example, to assess someone from Pelješac, I believe that these models ensure that the quality of the evaluation as well as the quality of the wine itself is raised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The new law and new approach is important and it is necessary, it is seen in these results that you have stated in the law itself and it is good to state and see what is the state and what are the negative trends that we are recording in wine production and the areas under the vineyards. Thus, the area by vineyards from 34 000 ha from 2009 to 23 000 ha today automatically means reducing the production of grapes and consequential wines that have decreased from 1.4 million hectolitres from 2009 to 760,000 hectolitres today. In addition to these negative indicators, the problem certainly lies in the import of wine into the Republic of Croatia and when we look at the correlation between imports and wine exports, there is a sharp increase in wine imports and 13 million liters of wine worth 16.45m euros were imported in 2013 while 2016 amounted to over 30 million litres of over 30m euros. When we talk about exporting our wines, the indicators record relatively standard amounts of quantitative value, we do not record any significant growth but no fall but a certain constant, which is another indication of the necessity of a truly greater engagement in this sector. The indicators are very clear, and our winemakers simply failed to impose on the external markets, the reason is for sure that our wines are in terms of quality of both the higher price class and there is stronger marketing support left to be introduced more strongly on foreign markets at the time we entered the EU. These data are also interesting, when we look at the price data of the wine at which we export and import, so if we look at the above mentioned data, the price of import wines is about 1 euro per litre, I think it is for some wines and less, while the price is almost 3 euros per litre and these indicators certainly create our domestic producers and pressure because they simply cannot compete with these prices. When we consider also the wine register and the centre register, we also have here certain derogations that certainly cast doubt on the credibility of the data on the harvesting and production of wine because obviously one part of that same wine is located in the gray market area. Here the conclusion is imposed in itself and the need for better control of wine is obviously both in production and in sales, precisely with the aim of reducing both the grey market and unfair competition, largely this applies to import wines that are priced and qualityd certainly lower than ours. I believe and believe that the control of wine can also be done through monitoring the traceability of production which would certainly give a much clearer introduction to capacity production and also help better market control now that we lift the stamps. In a conversation with winemakers Slavonia and Baranja, mostly the small ones, I realized that in addition to all these price problems, there is a problem with monitoring all the legislation of the prescribed procedures, new conditions that must be met, etc., and when we talk about them, we need to be aware that in some economies one person determines the work and winemakers and sellers and accountants and marketing expert, therefore with the view that when adopting these new conditions and procedures, it is necessary to make a certain division between small, medium and large winemakers, given the quantity of wine produced and in accordance with these divisions, to arrange simpler perhaps the conditions for these small ones. I think it's high time to raise this level of control and through the traceability of production in order to curb the gray market. Also, the funds made available may not be enough to achieve the desired effects of all of us so that we should work on greater financial investments of this particular marketing and with a stronger branding of Croatia as a wine region, and that is where we should engage not only you but also other ministries and local and regional self-government in order to reach the level we want. Also, this simpler approach for small winemakers would certainly be a kind of incentive and relief in their wine production, and once again I would like to commend these 33% discharges specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97635	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97636	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikulić, you come from one region, so I'm interested in what you say about the law being divided by four regions, with you being Slavonia and Hrvatska Podunavlje. And watch out for Croatia, Istria and Kvarner, Mr. Vice President so whose Istria would be rather than Croatian? Why does Croatia's Istria have to write? Croatia Istria and Kvarner. Well Istria is Croatia from, to Trieste from '45. As far as I know, we don't have any problem with that, and there's no need to write something like that in the law. And I'm curious as to why Dalmatia, for example, didn't put in a stormy Dalmatia. So that would say something that would also probably raise the quality of the law. I'm interested in Mr. Mikulić. How about these excellent descriptive proposals of the region, and are you satisfied with that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97637	Mr. Maras, Trieste is not in Istria, until... Not to Trieste, but not to warn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Answer, please. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97638	Dear colleague Maras, here if you are particularly interested in the Istrian region must stand Croatian because... But I also noticed here that you obviously mind that name Croatian so it's only your problem but I have nothing against these names. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97639	Mr. Maras has a breach of the Rules of Procedure, an article and everything that goes with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In 238, my colleague Mikulić, in his desire to prove himself before tomorrow's big protest, where HVIDRA fell apart in Vukovar and the desire for HDZ to send certain messages, however, demeaning other MPs by saying that they are disturbed by something written as Croatian. It doesn't bother anyone, and I'd like to ask you to warn your representative in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97641	Time. There is no reason for any warning and besides, one part of Istria is in Croatia, one part of Istria in Slovenia and one part of Istria in Italy, so maybe that was the reason, I don't know. Mrs. Goddess Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97642	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, dear colleague Mikulić, at the very beginning, you made a statement, or you said the discharge was for the wine sector. It's about $12 million. And I'm glad that you started to argue with that because actually most of these discussions that were being held there were investment, which brings this law. But I'm sure if you ask every winemaker or winemaker that he knows what that means. This means that they will not pay an administrative fee for the application for a solution for placing wine on the market but when applying. Is it 35 kuna if it is a wine without a geographical indication or 250 kuna if it is a wine with such a label. That he will not pay for the decision issued by the Bureau for, or the center for, the village and agriculture, that he will not pay for the stamps he needs. So he'll keep the money and he'll be able to use it for other purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97643	Time. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97644	Well, here's my colleague, many here today have said that there are no concrete solutions to this bill, but the figures are the same as 33% of the amount of discharge that nobody here can ignore, but here we have witnessed before and before we've always been to go in some wrong direction, so some people want to point this debate in some wrong direction today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97645	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates. Mr. Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97646	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, with his associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This new wine law is certainly something, is certainly an act that brings improvement for both winemaking and winemaking in the Republic of Croatia. Surely the law cannot solve all the accumulated problems that have been accumulated so far in this production but it is also not the situation in winemaking and winemaking or as bad as it wants to be shown. By entering the EU, we must accept the rules of the game that are so prescribed, and we are now transposing it into our legislation by this law. And who will be able to adapt to that will survive on the market, who unfortunately will not do business. Surely there are many more, many ways to help local winemakers and winemakers, and surely it is one production that we must not preserve, but we must do everything in our power not to reduce it but to increase it. The problem is, the acute problem is importing wines that are cheap. As we can see, they're moving about one euro per litre, while they're on exports, we're reaching about 3 euros right now, we're also 3.5 in some years. But it's not bad at all, it's just saying that we've increased the quality of wine that we have quality wines, vineyards that deal with production on larger surfaces, unfortunately, those smaller winemakers simply disappear from the market because their production simply can't be profitable and therefore I call on the winemakers to get as much together as possible, to perform together in the markets and this division in the regions, about the names of the region I've already spoken of, not in this way, as Mr Maras says, but simply and with the need to accurately define and cover the whole of Croatia in the names of the region. And the precise definition of talking about Croatia's Podunavlje and Croatia Istria is necessary because the Podunavlje exists in other countries, too, Istria extends through other countries and this is not some special emphasis on Croatia, even though I have nothing against it, but simply to define it, to talk about Croatia's Istria and Croatia's Podunavlje. I would also like to say a few words about the disease of golden jaundice, the vine vine which, especially in the area where I come from, means that the Bilogorska region, the winery, has become a growing problem, and we know that the problem is also in other parts of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97647	Please excuse me, sir, please a little quiet, you can't hear. Please. If anyone has to talk, we'll call you outside when there's gonna be a vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97648	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I have an ungrateful role, that I came to the debate right at the time when people are gathering for the vote, but I'm going to fill these three minutes to 12 o'clock, so that we can go quietly to the vote. I was talking about this, about the disease of the golden jaundice of the vine or the phytoplasmosis carried by the American cricket, and I agree with a lot of those who have already spoken today, that the ministry must simply engage more strongly in preventing the transmission of that disease, helping the winemakers to remove the infected vineyards, because there is no other solution. There is no cure to prevent this disease, except for the prevention of vector transmission, and I expect the ministry to find a way and means to help. I welcome this measure to disburse grape and wine producers for 12 million kn and it will certainly give positive effects. In any case, I expect that the law itself will be taught, as soon as possible, by many rules, without which this law simply cannot live. So making the rules and defining through the rules of many things will also explain some things and give clear instructions to all wine producers how they should act without breaking the law. I agree with Mrs. Makar, I don't think you should see it as an obligation to report possible harvests, or, for it's just an administrative obstacle to more wine producers, and it doesn't serve anything in my opinion, because no one can give an accurate assessment of the harvest and assess what weather conditions will be in that period from summer to the moment of harvesting, so I suggest that it be removed from the law. I also welcome the fact that the inspection view is as strict as possible and that the wine found in the shops is controlled, whether it really corresponds to its quality, here I am referring primarily to import wines, the quality declared and origin from where it comes from, and also to the production control of the producers themselves, because the information that is produced by 5.3 tonnes per hectare simply says that it is not accurate or that we are producing very high quality grapes with small yields and therefore we produce terrible quality wines or simple this statistics is not accurate. In one word, I support the adoption of this law, and I hope that most of these remarks, which were made in these discussions, will be appreciated by the ministry until the second reading, and that in the second reading we will have an even better proposal of law, which will then be acceptable to most producers and to all others in this sector of winemaking and winemaking. Here, Mr. President, I was right. I'll finish at exactly 12:00. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97649	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask only a little silence, that speakers may conclude these discussions on this law. Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97650	Thank you very much, President. I'm giving up the debate so we can vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97651	A fellow Pernar on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, final, 5 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97652	Dear ladies and gentlemen, you probably all remember the EU propaganda when they dragged us into the EU and then convinced us all that once we joined the EU that things would go better, that they would profit, among other things, by winemakers. If I may ask the chairman just to be quiet because I find it difficult to emphasize myself with a mass here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97653	I agree with my colleague Pernar, I ask you to be a little quiet, take your seats, another five minutes of debate, then we'll vote, but please be a little quieter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97654	Ugl. I asked Minister Tolusic how much wine was produced in Croatia in 2012 that means the last year before EU entry and how much wine is produced last year. I'll give you an answer, the answer is shocking because it says this, it says this in 2012 In 2012, 1,29 million hectolitres of wine were produced in Croatia, and in 2017 only 726 000 hectolitres were produced after 5 years of EU membership. [[Intruder President: My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you three times to be a little quieter, colleague Miljanic, please.]] In other words, there was a decline in wine production of approximately 40%. For many grape producers, that means a breakdown. I know it doesn't matter to you, gentlemen of HDZ and SDP, that I know that you have more important stories at this point for conversation, but winemakers, or winemakers, it doesn't matter because those who have no one to sell their grapes or can't do it at the right price, and they took credit for building their crops will be in big trouble. I urge you to do something about it because you are responsible for what happened, responsible for why? So because you told the winemakers that when they join the EU they will receive a new swing, and now it seems that by joining the EU they have actually received a new blow from which it is a question of how they will recover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97655	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Wine Act, first reading of P.Z.E. Number 430. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Wine and Others is accepted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for, 13 abstentions and 10 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97659	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 39th session held on 3 October, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which was submitted to this Committee by Advocate Milorad Batinić on 28 September 2018. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system by majority vote, 8 votes for and one abstention gave the following opinion. The representatives, participating in the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, must in particular make sure that they do not disrespect or insult the president or other representatives by their behaviour. In a situation where a representative injures the congenital business norm which regulates the above, the chair may impose appropriate sanctions. In the case described above, the request shall, in particular, be taken into account... 9th session of the Croatian Parliament of 27 September this year, the Committee is of the opinion that MP Krešo Beljak did not violate Article 238(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97660	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee and in accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without discussion. So I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Representative Milorad Batinić, please vote. I find that with 91 votes for and 6 abstentions, the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has been accepted. Opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, on the basis of a request for an opinion on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Branimir Bunjc. I ask the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Željko Reinera, to further explain his opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97662	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at its 42nd session held on 29 October 2018 discussed the request for an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure submitted by Dr. Done at Brussels, 26 October 2018. The committee unanimously, 7 votes in favour, gives the following opinion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, among other things, set the time for the address of representatives from members of the Club of Representatives at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. Items 5, 6 and 7 of these business provisions clearly state that the right to the agenda at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament is lost by a representative of the Club of Representatives who is not in the Chamber when called to speak on behalf of the Club. It is also prescribed that members of this Club can speak on this topic of the agenda, and be replicated, but as the representative of this Club cannot again report for the word on behalf of the Club in the so-called final presentation, after all the representatives have completed their presentation, given the above, the Committee is of the opinion that the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have not been violated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97663	Thank you. In accordance with Article 236. The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System shall be decided without discussion, so I am voting on the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of an opinion on the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Branimir Bunjc. Please, let's vote. I find that with 77 votes in favour, and one abstention, the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system is accepted. And we are now going to choose and appoint and resolve, so I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision. I suggest that all of a sudden we unify the debate and then vote, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97665	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 105(1) and Article 161(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs shall propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament on the discharge of a member and the selection of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee member Milanka Opačić is proposed and Krešo Beljak is proposed as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Maria Puh, is proposed and Tomislav Saucha is proposed as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament, Milanka Opačić, is proposed and Josko Klisovic is proposed as a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament Bojan Glavasevic is proposed and Arsen Bauk is proposed as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament, Maria Puh, be resolved and Stjepan Curaj is proposed as vice-president of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Mate Čičko is proposed and Marija Puh is proposed for a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament. The President of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament, Michael Zmajlovic, is hereby proposed and proposed to the Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament on 1 November. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament Ivan Vilibor Sinčić be resolved on 1 November 2018 and Drazen Barisic, and that Mihael Zmajlović be proposed as members of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection of the Croatian Parliament with a date from 1 November and Milorad Batinić. It is proposed that members of the Committee on Education of Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament be resolved, Dr. Gorana Dodiga, Bojana Glavasevic and Marija Puh, and for members of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, Sunčana Glavak, Marija Alfirev and Stjepan Curaj are proposed. Decision is proposed for a member of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Damir Tomic, and for members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament, Alen Prelec is proposed. The President of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament, Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, is proposed, and Michael Zmajlović is proposed as chairman of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. A resolution is proposed for members of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament of Trpimir Goluža. It is proposed to resolve the members of the State Commission for the Assessment of damages from the natural disasters of Miljenko Rakić and Sanja Krnić Bastac is proposed as a member of the Committee of the State Commission for the Assessment of Damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97666	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97667	I'm not sure if Mr. Sanader has read this appointment of the Committee on Gender Equality since 1 November. Okay. [[/Intruder: Yes, it is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97668	Here's a colleague of Mrak-Taritash asking for a warning for a colleague of Bauk's, but I won't give him a warning. Then we will vote unitedly on all these proposals, please join the vote, please. I find that, unanimously, with 92 votes, we've made decisions as proposed by the board. I don't have an application for free speech in clubs, so if no one's answering, then I'm closing the session. We continue on Wednesday 17 October by proposing the Law on Court Taxes, first reading. Thanks and I'll see you around. Session interrupted at 13.55 p.m. We are now going to the final vote, it is the election, appointment and resolution, I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoint and Administrative Affairs, Ante Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97670	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 105(1), subparagraphs 1 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs proposes a decision to the Croatian Parliament on the discharge of the members of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Goran Dodiga, a member of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, is proposed by Željka Josic. It is proposed that members of the National Council be resolved to monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption strategy Gordan Žmuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-12-0.u97671	Okay, I'm opening up a debate. If no one answers, I close the debate, I suggest that we both vote united, so I vote on both decisions proposed by our colleague Sanader. I find that most of the votes, 92 for and 6 abstentions, both decisions have been made as proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. This brings us to the end of the vote, and now we have free debates and then we continue on Wednesday, October 24th, with the proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate. Honorable parliamentary deputies, respected parliamentary deputies, good morning, we're on our way, it's Wednesday, with free debates. We've got eight applications for now. The first is as an independent, respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic, please.
