ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82423	Thank you very much. Good morning, I see you've already heard from a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, ask for a break related to the upcoming item of the agenda relating to the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act, so if you allow me 2 minutes to explain the request. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we all know, after the pension reform has been implemented, pensions are paid from three pillars in the Republic of Croatia. The first pillar is that classic pillar of generation solidarity. However, the second and third pillars are pillars based on individualised and capitalised savings by paying out pensions. What does that mean? This means that companies whose trust is the management of pension funds on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia either voluntarily or compulsoryly invest money that citizens save for their pension in securities. Part of these securities are bonds but the other part is a large part of the shares listed on regulated markets, mainly on the regulated market of the Republic of Croatia. What we all need to know when we talk about regulated markets is that they are arranged because they respect certain regulations. One of the most important rules in each regulated capital market is the ban on dealing and using privileged information. And privileged information is that information that should not be available to all investors until one moment when they become available to all. What is trading and abuse of that information? When, for example, Deputy Prime Minister, learns about the financial data in Agrokor's business and then gives them to Intercapital, Texa, Alteri, etc. That is why we believe that the pensions of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are compromised and we want 10 minutes so that within the club we can consult on how we will be asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82425	Okay. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Before I give the next item, I would remind you once again of what was said yesterday, and that is to ask MPs and MPs to remove laptops, materials, etc. from the bench in the assembly, so that the assembly can prepare itself for the meeting of the parliamentary committee of the Central European Initiative's parliamentary dimension on Monday 14 May. Here you go, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82427	Dear Representative or Honorable Chairman, I do not know when the free speech is planned today but it does not comply with the Rules of Procedure at 1 o'clock because we in the Rules of Procedure have the fact that it says that free speech is allowed on Fridays after the vote. We do not have a vote today, and I ask that it be made clear to me whether at this time I can give a free speech because the Rules of Procedure are not defined at which time that free speech is held when there is no vote because you are listed only on Fridays after the vote. We don't have a vote today, so is this a free appraisal of the chairman in what way it is defined and can I at this point give a free speech?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82428	Thus, we had the issue already last time and it was agreed that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system would take the position and then be a rule. The fact is, last time, it was so that it was held at 1 o'clock, no matter what the vote was, so we would do it today, and that's how it was planned to do it today, right? Please, if the debate ends earlier, of course, then we'll do it right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82429	We can't. It's some kind of free judgment. It must be known at what time And who defined it to be at 1 o'clock? [[In one hour, here, I told you.]] But based on what? [[Intruder Reiner: Yesterday the President of the Parliament said so.]] On what basis is that defined? ... But no, on what basis is defined at 1 o'clock, why can't I at this point have a free speech? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, we can't normally, the Rules of Procedure say that on Fridays after the vote, you made a Rules of Procedure that is undefined, I'm asking that at this point I have a free speech if you didn't define it the right way in the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Reiner: And the general vote is, it always starts at 12 o'clock.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82430	Comrade Grmoy, yesterday the President of the Parliament said very clearly. If you think this is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to address the question of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. However, I really ask you to do so and then to definitely clarify by interpreting the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. At this hour, of course, it is as the President of the Parliament said, and as scheduled, so at 1 o'clock, there will be free speech. We will now move to the first point, which is: - Proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The Act on the addendum to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act (the National Journal), No. 79/09 and 114/11) The proposer is the Legislative Committee on the basis of Article 210(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, the chairman of the Legislative Committee, colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82431	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. I'm going to brief on this proposal. At its 41st session held on 12 December 2017, the Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 3. Law on the addition of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act "National Journal", No. 79/09 and 114/11, which were submitted to the President of the Parliament by representatives of counterparts Peđa Grbin and counterpart Silvano Hrelja by act of 19 October 2017. The provision of Article 3 reads: The right to add to a pension under this law does not belong to the users whose pension is determined under more favourable conditions and/or in a more favourable manner according to the specific rules on pension insurance of the beneficiaries of the highest pension laid down under the Law on the highest pension, the users of the basic pension and the beneficiaries of the family pension which has been established by the pension rules applicable until 31 December 1998.’ The Committee considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 16 November 2017, which is estimated not to have the need to give a credible interpretation of that article. The Committee did not consider the opinion of the home working body of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of 29 November 2017 as it has not been submitted within the deadline. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, if the home working body fails to deliver an opinion on the prescribed time limit, will be deemed to be in agreement with the proposal for a credible interpretation. After the debate was held, the Legislative Committee found most of the votes that the proposal for a credible interpretation had not been established and proposed to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The Act on the addendum to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act provides for a clear and unequivocal provision of a provision which does not belong to the right of users to add to the pension under the Law on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act, NN No. 90/09/11 and 114/11, and the way in which basic pensions are determined is prescribed by the provision of the Article. 91. Retirement Act NN No. 157/13, 33/15, 93/15 and 120/16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82432	Thank you very much. I am opening the debate and, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be the first to speak to the respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82433	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here, for starters, I'd like to say that this initiative we welcome, of course, at the club, is about to correct one injustice. In fact, we might be able to say this vividly that our entire system or pension reforms were actually done on the principle of good expectations with great problems that we later tried to correct. So I'm going to say the painting, imagine the car that the oatmeal went to, so to make it even, we got flat tires, one of our tires broke, and then we went to put on a spare, so we lost the screws, so we could drive from each point we took off one of the screws, so we have three to drive away. Now the situation has come that we don't have much space anymore. People retire, and they're suspended in a certain law. Here, colleagues, colleagues of Hrelja and colleagues of the coat of arms tried to point out that at least in the proportional part that they were paying to that so-called. reforms, small pension reforms could damage people who will retire this year, for years and years to come. Therefore, pensioners from the second pillar need to be entitled to a proportional part of the pension allowance and to be able to choose better pensions at the time of retirement. That's how I realized this initiative. We see from the Committee's opinion that the Committee did not want to give a credible interpretation. This is about Article 3. Retirement Act and Art. 91st of the Pension Insurance Act itself, and I don't think the Committee has done well, that's my personal opinion, but what goes beyond actually the Committee's jurisdiction is certainly the Minister of Labour. The Prime Minister said when he represented him, you'll see he's good. Well, I expect him to show that he's a good minister. This question can and must be resolved because I say everything we expected from the second pillar, the individual capitalised savings did not come true. We have a pension somewhere, I think at this point at least 10% of GDP is leaving for retirement. It's a large amount of money, we haven't been able to make those growths. I, although pension funds have achieved certain profits, have not achieved the growth that we should have, and that is how the entire future of the pension system is actually questionable because if this continues in the future, we will have more and more problems. Less and less pensions than wages. Of course, and that concerns the largest number of Croatian citizens. These are those with average or below average salaries in the Republic of Croatia that at least stand out in that second pension column are according to the data and since 2002-2010 those who were actually able to choose between these two models, those quarter have decided on the second pillar, and these are people who have higher salaries, and then they stand out more and can expect more. So, we can't have the pension system patched up anymore. We really need to think about the model, how we are going to solve these problems. There were proposals, even at the beginning of the second pillar, it was thought to increase to 10% in the second pension column. For a number of reasons, this could not have happened, among other things, because of the crisis. But what the waves point out is that pensioners in the Republic of '90s have been damaged multiple times, and in the smaller part they've only been compensated. And we expect the minister to take this issue seriously and solve it because it is about people whose existence is seriously threatened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82434	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ante Babic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82435	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, our representatives in the Croatian Parliament of colleagues Pedja Grbin and Silvano Hrelja have submitted a proposal for a credible interpretation of the article. 3. The law on the addition to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, which states in fact: The right to a pension allowance under this Act does not belong to users whose pension is determined under more favourable conditions and/or in a more favourable way by specific rules on pension insurance of the users of the highest pension laid down under the Higher Pensions Act, basic pension beneficiaries and family pension beneficiaries who are determined by the pensions that were made according to the pension rules that were actually in force until 31.12.1998. Among other things, for reasons of seeking a credible interpretation state that all persons of art. 91. The Pension Insurance Act considers only users of the basic pension, not users of two of which is only the second part of the basic pension. They thus do not critically interpret the cited provisions of the law as leading to the different treatment of insurance companies who have exercised their right to pension under the same conditions that could not possibly have been an intensities of the legislation and this is the reason why they seek credible interpretation. It also states that there is no need to provide additional funding from the state budget. I must admit that this proposal to give me a credible interpretation of Article 3. On the one hand, the law on the addition of pensions to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act has greatly intrigued me from the legal point of view, and on the other hand I am re-emerged by the situation that this regulation is also subject to interpretation. You know when there's something left unspeakable or it's later fortified. That is why, although the government gave its opinion once again with HZMO legal experts, I wanted confirmation of this proposal. In view of the fact that this proposal would, if established, represent the need to provide additional resources in the state budget for that purpose and that is unequivocal. We have also analysed some of the rules relating to that proposal which follows, first of all, I believe that it should start from a certain fixed basic pension defined in Article 8 of point 9. of the valid Pension Insurance Act, which says that basic pensions and monetary income from pension insurance acquired under certain conditions by insurance undertakings that were secured from 1 January 2002 in compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, so insurance companies under 40 years from 1 January 2002 are necessarily insured in the second pillar, insurance companies between 40 and 50 years of age were able to voluntarily access the second pillar where, as you know for the second pillar, 5% of contributions, and for the first pension rate 15% of salary contributions. It should be noted that, according to point 7 of the same article, pension is defined as old-age, early retirement, disability pension, temporary disability and family pensions as monetary income from pension insurance. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Retirement Insurance Act prescribed by the law is compulsory and is referred to in point 7 of the basic pension. It can therefore be concluded that it is a special law arising from the insurance of risks in the case of age, disability and death of users in the second pillar, which is prescribed by Article 91(1), which determines the age and early retirement of members of the first and second pillars, that they are part of a single pension which is therefore the basic pension paid to those users by the institution itself, which further supports paragraph 2 of that article, which is the pension of the insurance company which is members of only the second pillar of the contract pension. In addition, for second-degree pensioners, the insurance company pays according to the contractual relationship another part of the pension, but that part refers only to the pension from the application of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings. at the insurance standing for which the users were secured in the second pillar after 1 January 2002 with 5% participation in the contributions. However, I believe that this is not about the wrong application of the provision, but rather about the decision of Section 10 under the name of the basic pension, which includes the provisions of Article 91 to 93, and points out that it is about the basic pension and when the pension is determined for the contribution paid in the first paragraph is determined by both parts. However, it should also be said that Article 3. The law on the addition of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act also states that the beneficiaries of the basic pension do not have the right to add to the pension, but it is not clear to the applicants whether it is only users referred to in Article 91(2) or all users or those whose pensions include the share of basic pensions. Therefore, the question is whether users with one share and another share should increase the part of the pension relating to the internship from 31 December 2001. In this regard, I would like to point out that we have also explored in more detail the intensities of the legislator, which is stated in the opinion regarding Article 3. The law on the addendum to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, so we found those documents from PZ 744 in the 5th meeting of the Croatian Parliament when it was held at the 26th session with an explanation under Articles 1 and 3. The proposal for a law supplementing pensions under the Pension Insurance Act with the Final Proposal for a Law is said to exclude users of the basic pension referred to in Article 83. The Retirement Insurance Act, which was valid until 2007 or the time of adoption of that law when, as far as I have checked, there was no notional fixed basic pension, but in a similar way, it prescribed the determination of pension. However, that very argument states that only pensions to be determined under Articles 74 to 81 and with the application of Article 184 would be increased. Now that you read that article, paragraph 83. The Pension Insurance Act can then be read that it is precisely that part of the pension that needs to be increased, given that it is clearly referred to in that provision in a way that determines that part of the pension according to Articles 74 to 81. Now it is not clear to me how both Mr Grbin and Hrelj said that if this credible interpretation were accepted, there would be no need for additional resources to be involved in the state budget. It should also be said that the Committee on Legislatives did not consider the opinion of the Committee, and I believe that, on behalf of fellow Members, Jelkovac explained it, so it did not consider the opinion of the Committee on Labour and Pension System because it was not submitted within the time limit laid down in Article 209. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, if the parent committee does not deliver an opinion within the prescribed time limit, then they will be deemed to be in agreement with the proposal for a credible interpretation. The Legislative Committee has therefore considered the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 16.11.2017, so I will only say a few things about it, which says that the pension supplement does not belong to the users whose pension is determined according to more favourable conditions. It also refers to Article 91 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Pension Insurance Act, which defines the basic pension and says that the Pension Insurance Act has set out precisely how basic pensions are determined. The Government also considers that the principle of the same standard shows that it is not two types of pensions, but also Article 91 of the ZMO prescribed a way of determining the basic pension which has two components, i.e. for insurance undertakings secured in both compulsory pension pillars, that is, two components that make up the whole. A basic pension. In addition, the Law on the very addition to pensions, which were carried out under the Pension Insurance Act, was in fact a circle of persons who were excluded from its application. The intensity of this law was to equalise the level of pensions, i.e. to reduce the difference in the amount of pensions achieved for the same retirement period, i.e. under the same conditions, which is estimated to be no need to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The law on the addition of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act and on the basis of this is proposed to the President of the Croatian Parliament to decide not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The law on the addition of pensions to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, which was, in fact, clearly explained by the applicant as chairman of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82436	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Silvano Hrelja will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82437	Dear Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed motionaries of the decision not to accept. We, therefore, wanted to solve the problem in an elegant way, and it really does not take for the year for which we proposed, money should not be provided, funds in the state budget, because for 14 pensions no one can predict whether it will be enough, more or less in the state budget. That is why we did not write that for the year in which we proposed credible interpretation it is necessary to increase the amounts in the budget and that is realistic, because if the budget is defined to 14 pensions, I cannot possibly believe it and for practical reasons it is not and will never be on so many pensions, it will never be a negligible amount in the total expenditure of pension insurance. We wanted to solve the injustice as soon as it came about because we had our first insurance company born in '62. the years which, under the circumstances, worked 30 years on a job with an internship, an increased duration of time, so they were engineers and glasskeepers who for each year were insurance interns, so they were recognised for every 12 months, 18 months of insurance internships, so on. A well-infected job experience that we all understand. So they gained at least at the age of 50, so their limit of 65 years was reduced by age retirement to 55 years, because according to the legal rules every 3 years under the benefited period, the age limit for retirement is reduced by a year. In 30 years, they have collected 45 years of work, and they are the first, so 14 people are the first of our citizens who have no choice, here, colleague Žagar has no choice, here must use the second pillar because they were younger than 40 years old on 1.1.2002. Of course, on the years of payments, just the I pillar, they don't have 27% and they're not on the principle of equal contributions and equal rights, they're in a subordinate situation. Second, they have solid savings in the second pillar of nearly 400,000 kunas because they are well - paid jobs. However, monthly payments are relatively low. You know that when someone retires in 65 and collects 330,000 kuna in their account, they will be entitled to 1,000 kuna in life. However, there are only 570 to 600 kuna. Why? Because according to the actuarial tables, their retirement age is 10 years longer, and in that part, the amount they have saved in the capitalised savings, regardless of the level of capitalisation, does not yield results as it will give to those who leave at 65. We proposed, instead of amending and supplementing the law, a credible interpretation because that would mean paying them in a year of difference in 5.6 months, how much they already use pensions, and that wouldn't be a big amount. If this were to be resolved then we have in some way enough time to address this problem legally in the next two years, because only two years from now will it start mandatory, to retire to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will meet the conditions that were under 40 years old in 2002, which will qualify for early retirement. So these people don't have that much. You know, one day I traveled to Zagreb from Pula, I listen to the radio and Mr. Jadran Marinkovic from Radio Split wonders that what kind of laws we have, what kind of state we are, because our sailors in small coastal sailing do not want to retire because they will be damaged. So seamen who have conditions, they have 45 years because they also have 12, 18, a benefactory internship in small coastal navigation do not want to retire, take place for young trained sailors who have no place to work because we have this problem because they do not want to be damaged by 2 titles. They do not have an allowance of 27% per year in the first pension column, i.e. intergenerational solidarity. And if they start using capitalised individual capitalised savings from the second pillar, then because of the length of the income, that amount will be lower. So the only thing that's damaged with both basics is that their advantage is to get young people retired, which would mean that they have to come up with a job and an additional source of income to compensate for these damages and I don't think that's what the pension system is for. So that's what we wanted to do, so the incentive is I think it's extremely fair and the solution is quite elegant. And if we're right about what we're saying because I have to challenge the claim that everything they're receiving is, or that they're going to receive pensioners from two retirement pillars that it's going to be all basic pensions, it's simply not true. Peace in the intergenerational solidarity system is an age, early age, age pension for long-term internships, retirement pensions due to employer bankruptcy, family and disability. In the second pension pillar, all these pensions are made into basic pensions, which means that for future pensioners they will have to be arranged as a proportionate pension for years in the first pillar and for years in the second pillar. And not to have two types of basic pension that fits into one, it's just not true. And secondly, we have basic pension payments for these 14 people and still, in HZMO statistics, we don't have the basic pension category as much as we have, or pensioners who receive a basic pension and what it amounts to. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Appendix Act may be observed independently on the basis of what my colleague Peja and I have proposed but it is best to observe it in the context of the provisions of Article 91(1). The Pension Insurance Act, whose title is the basic pension. It is prescribed that an insurance covered by compulsory pension insurance on the basis of an individual capitalised savings that has reached an internship in the period until the application of compulsory pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, i.e. an internship until 2002, an age pension and early retirement pension, i.e. the resulting and family and disability insurance is determined in a way that the part of the pension that belongs to him for the pension period completed until that day determines that he was only in the system on the basis of generational solidarity. And part of the pension after 2002, which belongs to him for the retirement period of that day, is defined as a basic pension. So there's no inaccuracies here. And look, of course, that we, therefore, are to blame the full claim made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the said provision of the Pension Insurance Act is precisely prescribed in which the basic pension is determined for insurance undertakings secured in the first and second pension pillar, i.e. that the basic pension has two parts. It's nowhere, but nowhere from what I read to you in Article 91 does it come out that the basic pension has two parts. Then, in statistical data, all these pensions that are being conducted as I listed them as basic pensions, and they're not because they're types of pensions from intergenerational solidarity. We for intergenerational solidarity because we had a transitional period from 1999 to 2010 that, from the best 10 years, the entire work experience enters the pension account, we created huge differences among the new pensioners ourselves because the rule that you are going to retire was that your pension is smaller because you are entering a growing number of years of standing in the balance. This, therefore, is a privilege only to the one who, from the first to the last day of work, was at the same workplace, which has not progressed at all, whose salary has not been increased in proportion to the last day of work, he has received the prize. But everyone else who made progress during work they were still damaged but we found a compromise called depending on the years when someone retired from 4 to 27%. With everyone receiving 27% from 2009 onwards. In 2011, this supplement no longer exists in the solution, but the solution automatically increases pensions from years of internships based on intergenerational solidarity by 27% and it no longer exists in the solution as such, because while it was a supplement, that part of the pension was not taxable, you know it well. We've always worked in HSU and against ourselves, we've struggled to get the supplement into the basics, when it entered the base then we got beat up because people started paying taxes, but I think it's right that it entered the base because more once the solution entered, no one can rule out. We now have insurance companies I and II. It's coming. In the government's view, they can't use 27% if they decide to use a pension from II for their years in column I. It stands but if they return the money to the state budget and decide on a more favourable right, then these are generations that were between 40 and 50 years old in 2002, which voluntarily entered the pension system, i.e. they entered II. Retirement column, if that nonsens, means if we decide to go back to column I, we get 27 years for all years of internship. So we hunt down the details, but I think we're right when we ask that the pensioners get at least this part, 27% of the year when they were paying 20% of the contributions when they all did. Not that part from II. It's coming. The other part will remain smaller because the man is going to retire early and the savings will give him less results. If it goes later, we'll give better results. So here I am at the end. Let's get this over with. We won't stop here. With what we are proposing, or by adopting this decision, everyone in this assembly who is under 56 years of age, for years of standing in the I. pension column for 20 percent, there will be less pensions for 27% for that year and we are only asking for the 27% increase, so here you go, respect the government's opinion and vote against your own personal interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82438	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative of Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82439	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in normal circumstances, I would now welcome representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but today I cannot do so because representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are not here because they probably think that the issue of pensions for Croatian citizens is not important enough to be here and to discuss it, to present their opinions and then because the Rules of Procedure allows parliamentary representatives to do so, and answer the questions of parliamentary representatives to further explain the things they have said in their opinion and which do not stand. Even though this proposal for credible interpretation was initiated by my colleague, Hrelj and I, when I listened to him, I realized that the two of us disagreed on two things, so I'm going to mention the first one. A colleague named Hrelj said that Article 3 can be observed in several ways and also in a way that can also be observed through Article 91. And I disagree with my colleague Hrelja because I feel that the article cannot be observed without Article 91. Why? Because in this law, the credible interpretation we've been looking for find no concepts that matter to its understanding. He calls for the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act and without withdrawing the parallel and reading the Pension Insurance Act, we cannot apply this law and we cannot define without the Pension Insurance Act to whom that pension supplement belongs 27%. And that's the key. For what? Because we here have one distinct injustice. And I will sum up injustice in a very simple way to make it understandable to everyone. Just because of the year of birth, only because of the year of birth to certain citizens of the Republic of Croatia, one right belongs to the other and does not belong to the other. In a specific case, all those born before 1962 are entitled to an allowance of 27% to a pension achieved exclusively, and we speak exclusively on the basis of intergenerational solidarity. Born after that, if they started working before 2002, that right doesn't belong. For all those who know anything about constitutional law, for all they know anything about human rights, it's very clear to them that this is about something called age-based discrimination. And age-based discrimination is prohibited in the Croatian legal order as is any other discrimination. Especially when, as in this case, there is no valid justification in law, Constitution and practice. The next thing I won't fully agree with my colleague Hreja is when he says we have pensioners I, II. and III. That is, the pillar I and II said. It's coming. And I'll tell him no, we have pensioners I, II. and III. Orders not based on how much they worked, not on how much they paid in pension funds, but only on how they were born and that's the problem we're trying to address. To be perfectly clear what we've been looking for and what we've proposed and what we've claimed to be right with this credible interpretation of ours, it's very simple. For all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who were born after 1962, who started working before 2002, we propose because we believe that this stems from the provisions of these two laws that we are talking about, that these laws have to be interpreted in such a way that for that retirement period that was achieved only in time when the system of intergenerational solidarity was in place, so without individualised capitalised savings, this period of intergenerational solidarity paid off an allowance of 27%. The one who worked for a year will be paid 27% for that year. The one who's 20 years old, those 20 years old. And that's it. Because that's exactly how we feel about this law. No longer, I'll finish the next one. We referred this proposal to the procedure in October 2017, my colleague Hrelja and I. More or less at the time and the SDP's Club of Representatives has offered a solution to this problem which is evident. What did the government of the Republic of Croatia do in the meantime? Nothing, nothing. The government has not offered any solution, and every day, regardless of what we have to date, only 14 people who have retired in this way will increase every day. In this year it's going to be 30 people, next year it's going to be a hundred. Already in 2020, we can expect thousands of people who are going to retire this way and who will be damaged in this way. That is why we appeal to the ruling that as soon as possible, if they do not want to accept this proposal that we have sent my colleague Hrelja and I to the procedure, if they do not want it to then guide their systematic solution. We don't care if he's proposed by the government if it's okay, we'll back him up. And finally, since it is evident that because this is in the final line a proposal from the Legislative Committee that this proposal for credible interpretation is not accepted, the SDP Representatives' Club will vote against the Proposal for a Legislative Committee, and my colleague Hrelja and I will use our right and we will submit a proposal for an assessment of constitutionality to the Constitutional Court. 3. The law to determine whether such age-based discrimination is permitted in the Croatian legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82440	Thank you very much. Before we move to an individual debate, welcome the students of the Kamen-Shine Split elementary school who are at our gallery upstairs. Give it up! And now, in an individual debate, we will first hear the respected representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82441	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From the opinions I have read several times, it seems to me that there is a complete lack of understanding of the functioning of the pension system in the Republic of Croatia, as the Government has shown, which gave a negative opinion on the Law amending the Law on the Supplement to Pensions. Because a deep misunderstanding of pension reform is something that leads to the fact that in the Republic of Croatia we have pensioners who are pensioners two different, two different levels. Ones who were born until 1962 and others who were born afterwards. Which is not fair, it's not fair and if the government already couldn't and didn't want to solve it for its own political reasons because obviously she's incompetent and indecisive and can't come up with a solution to a problem that's going to get bigger and bigger, then it's supposed to be solved here in this respectable home. Because the job of Parliamentarians is that the problems of citizens who are visible, and this is the problem that screams and is more visible every day, they solve any legislative proposals, either by this credible interpretation of the Law that passed this House. And apparently the party discipline is much stronger than what's called daily life and what's going to happen to part of the parliamentary deputies when they retire because I remind you again, probably the parliamentary deputies know that the parliamentary pensions are gone, that they're going to go into retirement under the general rule. So, pensions from the first and second pension pillars. Therefore, gentlemen, you are working against yourself with this negative opinion. Not just against these people who have now retired, but against themselves, against their own interests. You'll retire one day. When you retire, your pension will be 27% less than... Yes, for years of internship, but for those who retired only from the first retirement stake. [[You can't hear it.]] And that's the problem. A problem the government hasn't solved. The government, Minister Pavic, is a guilty person in one good ministry that affects a large part of the population, so anything other than school and preschool children is incapable of handling it on the other hand, apparently Prime Minister Plenkovic is afraid to decide not to violate his image. This credible interpretation, but if the party did not allow you to vote the Retirement Address Act could have been a lifeline that could have solved the problem of the undecided Prime Minister Plenkovic and the incompetent Minister Pavic. Because it might seem to you that it's small, that it's 20, 30 people now, but it's something that's behind those 20, 30 people extremely painful. They have 500 kuna less pensions than his colleague who's retired before. And what happens to us is what HRELI's colleague said that people won't retire, wait for the government to solve it, and the government doesn't have a clue how they're going to solve it. First, Minister Pavic said that the first pillar pension supplement would be different because pensions from the first and second pillars cannot be greater than those of the first pillar. So what then do pension reform if we can't do so if that's not the result of the pension reform? So the result of the pension reform should be that our pensions from the first and second pillars are greater than our first pensions. And now according to the latest information, at least according to the media, Minister Pavic is now returning. It came from something to his head and he says here we're going to introduce a pension supplement, but we're going to introduce it at the end of the year when a new law is passed, etc., etc. And no one cares about those 30 people who are retired now. But these are the voters of the HDZ gentlemen, perhaps some of them are your voters. But there will be more and more because next year there will be women who will be able to leave early retirement. After that, in 2020-2022, a large number of pensioners will be coming to retirement and that is what the government obviously does not care about because it does not offer any solution. This credible interpretation could be one way out for everyone, both for the position and for the opposition, we are trying to point out to the government that it is time to start solving problems, and also for you from a position that is due to the inability of Minister Pavic, who has not yet solved this problem since January 2017, this is not a problem since January 2018, these 30 people have had 500 kuna for a year and a half. If this doesn't work out, and it doesn't seem to have any intention of getting rid of it because the government simply doesn't want to, doesn't know or can't, then we can try again in this House to offer solutions because the credible interpretation will be rejected, but here it will be six months since we proposed the Retirement Act, we'll propose it again and we'll propose it over and over again until it's settled. And it's got to get rid of it. The peace system cannot go on unless it is resolved and that is the government's obligation, the obligation of all of us in the Parliament. And I am sorry that the party's discipline is so firm that also the parliamentary deputies who will raise their hands for this credible interpretation work directly against themselves, against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, against those who are now retired and have a small pension. I appeal to the government and Minister Pavic to get rid of it, and it is very simple, just to change the article in the Law on Contributions or to accept this credible interpretation. Both are solutions that can then be solved for all other generations. The most just thing is that all those who retire from the first and second pension pillars have the right to add to a pension paid out of the first pillar of 27%. If not, we will have poor pensioners in the future, we will have pensioners who will have pensions below the poverty line, and the pension system may be more stable. He'll approach that fable where the owner taught the donkey to starve, so after 40 days he learned to starve, but then the donkey died. That's how it's going to be with this if the government and this House don't make changes to the law, the new law, whatever you want, but gentlemen solve the problem. I'm sorry that this one here by now seeing this credible interpretation won't get the council majority, but it will be the sin of those who raise their hands for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82442	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82443	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, Mrs. Gristle. For you, I have one question, and the question is very simple, and I believe that you will be able to answer it metrically in view of your experience in the area of pension insurance, and that is whether it is fair that someone is only because they were born in 1961 has the right to add 27%, and someone because he was born in 1962 does not or does not ask you, do you think that HZMO practice is correct or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82444	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82445	Thank you very much. Dear fellow coat of arms. Well, that is deeply discriminatory, deeply unfair, not human, whatever we want because age must not be a reason for discrimination in Croatian society. And on the other hand, insurance companies who were born in '62. They had to enter the second pension column by law, so they could not choose whether they would be in the first or second retirement meeting and that should be corrected. I fully agree, and I will sign it with you, that if the Government, and obviously it does not intend to settle it in due course, to lift it up, so let us see the constitutionality of this article of the law and then the Constitutional Court tells us what we all claim to be unconstitutional and that it should be resolved. Why it was passed when the law was passed, it should be asked by those who had passed the law back then, but what we must do now is resolve it and remove that discrimination from the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82446	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82447	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Mrsic, of course it is visible from the plane that it is unconstitutional. In 1999, when the first mini pension reform was adopted, pensions were found to be less for a particular group of pensioners, due to the extension of the accounting deadline. Then these supplements are introduced from 4 to 27%. So, because of the mini pension reform. In a case, they patched the hole in the second pillar of those who had a small period of individualised capital savings. So it's a case game. And now the government's explanation that this isn't a bureaucratic explanation, that it can't solve because they have a basic pension that counts from I. and II. The pillar, it's not just logical, and that's why we think it's actually an explanation, that this solution is unconstitutional, and it certainly needs to be made possible for people who were born after '61. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82448	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82449	In the first row, there was also a pay phone about the basic pension, where the basic pension is thought to be a pension from the I pension column. No, the basic pension is I and II. Retirement column, it's a pension. It consists of two parts. The injustice that was done in '99. when it passed from the 10 best years to full-time employment, it led to discrimination between new and old pensioners and it was corrected by the add-on. And then again, it's happening to us again. It repeats the same story as '99. Yeah, since the pensioners are in II. The pension column does not have the right to add 27% to the pension from the I pension pillar, we will again have pensioners first and second order. This has been corrected by the pension allowance, and it is corrected here so that we will include it in these pensions from I. and II. Retirement pillar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82450	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82451	Thank you, Vice President. Your colleague Mrsic said this was about a lack of understanding of the proposal or pension reform. I say it's not an misunderstanding, it's a deliberate circumvention of the truth because everyone here in the assembly knows that the proposal is good and that injustice has been done to one group of pensioners just because they were born after 1962. It is a glare in front of the truth that already pensioners find it difficult to live with pensions below 40% of the average salary in the Republic, that many of them do not have the ability to pay even more, let alone the other quality of life they certainly deserve. And my suggestion is that all those who are against this proposal take those 500 kunas out of that pocket and give these pensioners as long as the government doesn't make a better solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82452	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82453	Well, thank you very much. What is evident from the government's reasoning and the statement by Minister Pavic is a complete misunderstanding of pension reform. Because if it is said that a pension allowance will still be introduced, but in a way that equalises the pension from I. and II together with a potential pension or hypothetical pension from the I. pension pillar, then there is a complete misunderstanding of the pension system. Here's the thing: The government has to deal with citizens' problems. Apparently, the government doesn't seem to be worth the effort of 30 people, people in the ministry to solve this problem because they obviously don't think it's a large number of voters, so they'll forget it, but I'm warning you. These 30 people are 30 fates, 30 families, and the government takes away 500 kunas each month, and that's a fact that no one can escape from.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82454	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82455	Dear fellow Mrsic. I admit that your bill in the act that they adopted it was a good, even more comprehensive than what we propose, but just so you know that we proposed a credible interpretation because of our poor experience when we introduced a brand-new retirement category for a long-term internship when due to recession, due to our kind of monitoring by Brussels, we excluded those who had 40 years of internships from earlier periods and they remained retired. So taught by such life stories, I decided to react along with my colleague to solve the problem as soon as it came into existence, and I think this is a very elegant way to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82456	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82457	Dear colleague Hrelja. You did what you could because obviously the government doesn't want to solve this problem and that this is one of the ways and mechanisms that Parliament can correct the illogicalness of the government. And this is completely blinded to citizens' problems, completely blinded to problems in the pension system, and yes, we've introduced pensions for long-term internships, so those who are 61 years old and 40 years old, 60 41, who can retire without a pension, but unfortunately we haven't been able to sign off on it for generations before which they've had a full-time pension because these people have done their full-time job, and the system has penalized them because they're not 65 years old. That's settled, there's a lot of illogicalness in the pension system. Very soon in this House we will have a bill of law, an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act, which will try to solve these illogicalities because it is time for things to be settled.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82458	Thank you, Agent Mrsic. And the last replica, colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82459	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Mrssic, you, Mr. Hrelja and Mr. Grbin spoke well of this topic. Unfortunately, we know the ruling won't accept it, but we understand that at this point HDZ has no time to deal with pensioners. They're just about to get interesting before the election. Now they're dealing with the withdrawal of money from Agrokor, the privatisation of Petrokemia, the closure of the refinery in Sisak and the work they've been doing for 20 and a few years. In those 20 years, pensioners became poor. When you sit outside in the city on the bench and sit down and watch and see them digging through containers, collecting bottles and mostly very, very badly living. In rural areas in the country even worse because agricultural assets are so small that they are also negligible, they cannot live on them, and reforms in this system, correcting injustice, that HDZ is not interested today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82460	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82461	Thank you very much. Well, apparently, the government is dealing with some other problems, and it's not dealing with this. It's not about citizens' problems, it's about the survival of the government in the Ban Courts and trying to spin some things in the media, but it's about to be written down. It remains written in this assembly, but what it is, you can see that the citizens see it. Citizens see that the government does not solve problems, that the government does not implement reforms and that in Croatia the situation is better because the economy in Europe is on the rise, and then drags the Croatian economy. The fact is that if we do not make changes, important changes will make that Croatia will go back into recession and will lag behind Europe again. Now is the time when reforms are being made, and the government is being swept into a good tourist season, into budget surplus, but it won't be forever and we'll be in a phase when we regret these times.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82462	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82463	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. In my individual debate, I will look back at the government's opinion in my opinion, the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth sentence says: the sequence of the said Government of the Republic of Croatia considers it to be from the manipulation of the norm, that the circulation of the norm shows that it is not two types of pension. But what about two kinds of pensions? One from the period when 20% of the contributions were paid, and the other when 15 were paid, and 5% of the contributions went into individual capitalised savings, so that's a mistake. It's like he's an old man. 91st prescribed way of determining the basic pension, which is not true. Article 91 provides for a way of determining pensions, not basic pensions, because the basic pension is only a characteristic of pensions from two pension pillars which have two components for insurance undertakings secured in both pension pillars. False, which make up the whole i.e. A basic pension. Not that. It's basic, it's retirement. These are two components, but not basic pensions, but two components of retirement because I'm sorry, we're talking today about those who went to old age, who went into retirement last year. In two years, our workers will go to early retirement. Penalization, is the initial retirement plan planned? It's because they have a short period of savings, but the pension is only scheduled for early retirement. So, what component? For the one where someone singled out only in the first retirement column. So this isn't really responsible to write it like this without getting into the essence. In addition, paragraph 7 of the Act, in addition to the pension supplemented by the Pension Insurance Act, lists a circle of persons who are excluded from its application and do not belong to, among other things, the users of the basic pension. We agree with that, but only for part of the basic pension, not for this previous part. That Law does not distinguish users whose part of the pension is defined as basic pensions from those whose pension is fully defined as basic. So we think it's an art. 3. The law on the addendum to pensions under the Pension Insurance Act has clearly excluded the beneficiaries of the basic pension, which makes it impossible to interpret that provision in such a way that the pension allowance belongs to a part of the pension made for the pension until 1 January 2002. Oh, no, you don't. If one who voluntarily entered the second pillar decides to return to the first pillar and return the savings to the state budget, then it belongs to him. Where the case is established by law, but it belongs to him. Is it arbitrary interpretation only of the Pension Insurance Office or on the basis of which it belongs to 27% for the entire work experience because it has returned its savings to the state budget. And those people were 120,000. Already some nearly 30 thousand returned to the first pillar, some 100ths remained and used the second pillar and that cycle will be returned to the first pension column for nine years until this entire pool of 120 thousand present insurance companies, or most of them still not exhausted by the insurance company. Furthermore, in the view of the Government, it states: namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that insurance companies of the first and second pillars were, among other things, excluded from the application of the Law on the add-on to pensions achieved under the Pension Insurance Act, since the intensity of that Act was to equalise pension levels, i.e. a reduction in pension rates achieved for an equal retirement period, i.e. under the same conditions for the beneficiaries who made pensions exclusively under the Pension Insurance Act in relation to the users who made pensions according to the earlier rules. Users benefiting from both compulsory pension rates i.e. in the Generational Solidarity and Mandatory Capitalised Savings System, they cannot be in the same position as the beneficiaries who made their pension only in the Generation Solidarity System because they exercise the right to two basic pensions and pensions from the second pillar paid by a pension insurance company based on a contract concluded by the insurance company. So we didn't even ask them to be in exactly the same conditions because they add years of deposits to another pension column we didn't ask for this credible interpretation. We also asked that the supplement belonged to the proportional part only for payments of the Intergenerational Solidarity Fund only during the time they paid 20% of the contributions, not during the time when they paid 15% of the contributions, their employers of course, and 5% of the individual capitalised savings. But there's a different way of doing things. In fact, we have one part of the pension beneficiaries of 164,000 who are paid abroad, because citizens of countries in the area of Italy, Germany, French European countries used to work here for 5, 10, 15 years and obtaining the conditions for retirement in countries where they live they establish the right foundation of a social agreement with the Republic of Croatia to receive a pension for those years of work here. There are 164,000 of them, and now this part of our pensioner, and the citizen of Germany or Austria, regardless of whether he is there receiving more pensions from the so-called so-called. factory registers, and that's just like our second pillar of individual capitalised savings. He achieves these ten years to assume what his pension for an internship in Croatia is going to get 27%, not only if the payments are so small that he is covered by the lowest pension. But if he had as much decent pay as he would then he would get a 27% supplement regardless of whether he was a second or third pensioner somewhere in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and elsewhere. Now Switzerland has entered this circle of countries. So I see that we have different approaches, and that's why this is an elegant solution, to solve the problem from the beginning, to see that we have two more years to see what the start of two retirements is actually going to be, and it's not going to be big. Are we going to have to intervene with some let's tell the social anchors that we guarantee the equality of the lowest pension only from the first pillar and with the equality of pensions from both pillars because workers and those living with such low wages have the right to absolutely have the right to social or existential security. The fact that the state allows such low wages and payments below the table is its problem, but citizens must have a certain social security at the time of age. That's why there's the lowest pension. Unfortunately, there are 240,000 of our citizens in it, and this shows all the waste of the world of work in the last 27 years, all the collapse of industry and the loss of an early place, because about 800,000 new pensioners almost 30%, so those in 1.1.1999 almost 30% end up in the lowest pension. And can't have an average pension growing when new pensioners on a continuous basis, regardless of the adjustments, bring fewer and less pensions into the system because of the failure to pay their contributions. No pension from either pillars if the minimum wage is as high as there is no large pension with low wages. We have to organise our work world differently and fight for well-paid jobs and build on excess values, excess of their knowledge in our products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82464	Thank you, fellow HRELI. We have two replicas at his exhibition, but before the replica we welcome representatives of the City of Ljubuški municipality together with the owners from the areas that are presently with us. Nice to meet you. We continue with replicas, we actually start with replicas. [[Applause]] He's my first colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82465	I guess you and I will one hundred times repeat a fact that must get out of this assembly so people understand where the problem is. Those who were born in '62. The year will have a quarter lower pension than those born in '61. A woman born in '62. the year which had an average pension and will leave at 36.5 years of early retirement in 2019 will have a 22% lower pension than a colleague born in 1961. In the same workplace, with the same internship, with the same pay. Well, it's inconceivable that in a system for the same conditions you have different pensions. Or men they will retire in 2022 will also have a pension of one quarter lower than those born in '61. And that's not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82466	Thank you. Answer, here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82467	Comrade Mrsic, we have one problem that the government does not see, which we have a solution for. And you're talking about a problem that's gonna come up in two years, but you haven't said yet. That lady, if she's going into early retirement other than losing these 27%, there's also a penalization. There's also a small savings in the second pension column. Then someone here is going to scream, tear down the second pension post, tear it all down. Guys, game rules are bad. Let's change the rules of the game. What is proposed is neither expensive nor a budget impact at the moment, but when we create new poor people, and regardless of pension reform, it will come because with early pensions, that automation comes, and then we will hunt for the head that will be the pressure on the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82468	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82469	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Hrelja, you are reading the government's explanation. The allowance was paid to pensions exclusively on the basis of intergenerational solidarity payments, so 20% by 1999 and that is the purpose of the add-on. So you're also asking that supplement to be paid for the same, but proportional to the part that... I don't see the logic of that no trap. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If these things don't work out, then the pension system will soon look like most of the county roads in the Republic of Croatia, rag to rag, patch to patch. So you're asking that proportionally as much as a man was paying at that time when 20% was being paid, and he doesn't even have a choice anymore, you said that yourself, after '61. who were born to be paid so proportionally for that amount supplement. And we don't see what's in there, we just don't see what's going on here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82470	Thank you. Replication response, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82471	I don't see what's going on here either. Everything here is clear as day. And we even have a clear understanding that the Labour Committee has quietly given consent. However, the proposer of this decision that we will vote on is the Committee on Legislatives. Of course, according to our Rules of Procedure. The fact that the parent committee gave the silent consent or agreed to a credible interpretation, unfortunately, does not mean anything. But it is obvious that we all have bad habits in Croatian society, so it is reflected in the executive power that problems are put under the carpet, and they are not solved when they are created. If they had been resolved and the systems were evaluated, then they should not have waited until 2007 to introduce the supplement because it was known from the full of eight years that each year later they were going to retire, which is deeply unfair, which is a major injustice in the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82472	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82473	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Hrelja, here you are trying to correct an injustice in the sea of injustice, this is one drop in correcting injustice and what is tragic, and also comically, we know that by ruling normally you will not accept it as you do not accept any proposal for opposition. The sad and funny thing at the same time is that we as an opposition support what we think the rulings have suggested well, and they don't want to support anything but a small injustice that tries to correct itself than here, they add more to that scale which unfortunately turns this Croatia into a valley of tears and then let that valley be bigger and let the tears become as much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82474	Answer, here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82475	Thank you, colleague Lenart, but this drop will be a stream in two years, and in five years it will be a stronger stream, and in 10 years it will be a strong river. So we have some experience in life. I have six decades behind me, and if nothing has taught me the experience, then teach me how to solve the problem while it's time, because then maybe after that, you'll just have to solve it harder, and even when you do, you'll damage some people because no one, or substitute for this credible interpretation, can only make a proposal to amend and supplement the Law with feedback. You understand what I'm saying? So it could be the only decent substitute for this credible interpretation, to solve the problem when it started to emerge. Everything else will be damaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82476	Thank you, colleague Hrelja, for your answer. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82477	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Today we are talking about a subject that is very burdensome by Croatian society and I think that in the next period, the next period will become even more burdensome and we know why. The main reason is that a bad demographic picture, or long-term, will not be those who can charge the pension system or can make money so that those who deserve it have pensions. So when we talk about this problem at all, the key problem is demographics, but I would now put a little bit of a link between my debate with the pension system and the justice of the entire system. Here we've heard, here's the relationship between men and women, whether it's just or unfair, pensions that are sightlessly low, some that are terribly large. But what about those who raise, for example, 10 children or 5 children and spend their time, their resources, their money to raise and children and he retires one day as he who doesn't have any children, or one child or two children, and they will eventually have the same pension. However, ten children of this first one will fill 10 times the budget of this second one. This is one question that wasn't discussed, it wasn't thought. And I think there would have to be some other institute that precisely those people who are open to birth, who, I'll say, and the meaning of life, to reward them in some other way and even bigger pensions because they contributed that even those who gave up giving birth, even though we understand each other, there are those who can't have children, we have to have that in mind, but we have to reward these, not these sanction, definitely, but these we have to reward. Because if they weren't there, no one could fill the pension system. So when we talk about justice, injustice, and this is one thing, I will not say injustice, but one situation that must be solved, which must be taken into account that all those who have invested their resources, their money, their time, their love in raising children, in raising a family, must be rewarded in some way because there would be no state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82478	Thank you. We have three replicas at the presentation of our colleagues, Hrvoj Zekanovic. First is colleague Zeljko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82479	Dear colleague Zekanovic, I came to you for a replica, and I couldn't do this to the others because I would get post-traumatic stress from these people. So it's clear to everyone in a country where you have 1.15 employees, one in retirement that this system is unsustainable and that without public pensions for GDP, as far as he'll be, we don't know, but he'll have to be, that there's no saving the pension system at all,... And a spike whose people hide their unhappiness and ignorance. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, we won't be able to do it without investment, without suppressing the gray economy, without paying taxes, those people who don't pay taxes, and what about people outside, diaspora? They come here, they get double taxation. What about pensions, by the age of 90, dear... Where's your money up to ten billion dollars, where's that left? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Southpaw, don't talk about it. You had there in Vinkovci, here's a doctor sitting here, could you from Vinkovec dialysis in Tuzlo what about that former system? The speakers speak in the same voice. [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]] You're doing the same thing again. [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you colleague Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82480	Thank you, thank you. Your time is up. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82481	Dear colleague Glasnovic, I disagree with you. So much is the legacy of the former system, and that legacy is not good, and it is because of this system today that the situation is what people used to do regardless of work, regardless of the time they retire to earn a pension, and they don't need to earn it, some don't deserve it. And right, I'm going to say that we as a society and need this one, I'm going to tell the spiritual restoration in the end to make one catharsis, or more, to make all the connections, the mental relationships as you like to say, with that system actually break down. And the fact that the state has to pump millions and millions of kuna into the pension system to survive, that is, unfortunately, only the question of when the system will collapse, or when it will no longer be able to endure it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82482	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82483	The last replica in this wheel, my third. Mr. Zekanovicu, the pension system is the foundation of the social state and the pension system will never fail while the state is. So leave the disastrous statements somewhere else. You went well, but you ended up with another discrimination in the system which is not fair because the system cannot discriminate in that way, but what the system can do and what needs to be done, that women who are giving birth, their pensions are not less because during that period the maternity care receives less pay, etc. We also suggested to the ruling, you raised your hand against making it right in the Pension Insurance Act, that this injustice be corrected. So during pregnancy and after childbirth, contributions are calculated in a way that they do not have fewer pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82484	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82485	My colleague Mrssic and you raised your hand for everything and everything. But I agree with this measure that women should not be damaged because they were born. We do, however, have, for example. The Institute of Beneficiary Jobs. We rewarded someone for doing hard work, right? We have this institute. Why don't we have an institute reward for the one who raised and gave birth to ten children? Why not? So it's the Institute of Rewards. Just like we're rewarding soldiers or cops or firefighters with an unfettered internship, let's reward mothers who give birth to children with slightly bigger pensions or better conditions of ours so they can retire a little early.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82486	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure is the replica of my colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82487	Dear colleague Zekanovic. We must always observe the pension insurance system, what he is not, as long as he writes insurance, that means that the exit to some must negotiate the right that workers create for decades, not one day. So they don't pay 15% now or 20% before the money in some savings, they create their own level of rights, and that part will have to be respected as long as the pension insurance system is. When the social system is then there will be a method of equal abdominals, but this you encouraged me to replicate because there is a possibility, there is a recommendation of the Council of Europe to take care of the elderly, the sick, the children and through the pension system. We therefore need to make innovations in our pension system and can be part of demographic problems and thus be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82488	Thank you, colleagues. Last individual debate, and an apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82489	Just one answer short. I didn't know it, and I'm glad it exists. You said a Council of Europe recommendation, so here it is, and I'm glad I got involved in the debate and heard something. I hope that my colleagues have remembered that, so let what I have suggested be introduced or considered through some future legislative proposal because the matter is logical. If we have those who will pay into the pension system, then the pension system will work, if it doesn't, very hard. My colleague Mrsic said it's not a catastrophic situation, but I don't want to create some atmosphere that's a disaster and an unexplainable situation in the country for no reason, but it really is. People are poor, people have extremely low pensions and the question is, I'll say the moment when the system will collapse.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82490	Thank you. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82491	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Dear MPs and what is most important is the respected pensioners you are looking at here today at this not very simple moment where it is shown that unfortunately in our country some are blocking how to organise a group that will earn tens of millions of kunas at the annual level of Mrs Dalic and Mr Plenkovic's consultants, rather than whether to provide the pensioners with more pensions than they are today or whether our pensioners will live better. And on this side, it is amazing that here today we are still watching Prime Minister Plenkovic's struggle for Minister Dalic and her survival and release millions of kunas that she has provided through and through the law and after consulting services to her friends, instead of watching Prime Minister Plenkovic's struggle to make our pensioners live a better life yesterday. And that would be good, and that would show that our prime minister takes care of them and that he cares about how the pensioners live. And at this point, this ratio of employees and pensioners is extremely unfavourable for, of course, the employees of Croatia because very few people work, and very few people unfortunately have unworthy small pensions and on this side very hard to live. So at this point we have almost a million and 200 thousand pensioners, the average pensions are nothing. Just a data that should now be told Prime Minister Plenkovic as he considers at a meeting in the Croatian government how to preserve Martin Dalic that 95,000 people live with a pension of less than 500 kuna, 231 kuna average pension. It is necessary to tell Mr Plenkovic, while at this point uncompromisingly defending the wealthy in the Croatian government, consultants who took tens of millions of kunas that 87,000 almost people have an average pension of 500 to 1000 kuna, means 799 kuna and 306,000 people, respectively, have a pension of less than 1,500 kuna, 1,500 kuna. So do you know for what 1,500 kunas he earns who made it possible for him in Agrokor, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mrs. Dalic Texo Management that he earns from 250,000 a month means 8 a day a man earns at two o'clock a man when he gets to work in the morning, unfortunately for how much he gets 305,000 of our pensioners. And then I wonder here justifiably who we're worried about? Should Prime Minister Plenkovic take responsibility and make a certain step and increase the average pensions and give people some more money so that they can live quality? Well, my people, especially those who now look at us through small screens get a pension increase of 5.6.7 kuna per month, so what is it? What are these people going to live on, and are you in a position to ask yourself, do you even care, or is it the only thing that we care about right now how to survive this crisis and how the mandate ends? And it's obviously not a subject that's interested in ruling the majority, as I said 305,000 or if you want almost 500,000 people who have less pensions than 2,000 kunas, so every day people have to live with 65 kunas, 65 kunas every day. And here we are talking about how Martina Dalic has secured through the work of her friends in consulting companies one 12 million kuna, the other slightly less, the third something more, etc., etc. And until we turn that logic around, or people who really have nothing to live on will be in focus first so far won't be well. I hope that as much of the forest as has been created today around one notor fact, the simple fact that Martina Dalic is no longer allowed to be in the government of the Republic of Croatia, I am deeply convinced that the representatives of the HDZ here and I know that we would be replicating that they do not think so, but since they are not replicating means they agree with that. So since we all feel that we will also feel that Prime Minister Plenkovic will feel that he will make the right move today, although he deserves this now, I would say new elections or that people who absolutely have no more trust, primarily these pensioners who are watching us, have absolutely no confidence in the existing government anymore, to say simply enough is enough to go through with it, let's see who gets the new trust and whether people say, and who knows how different it would be. Look, this sure as hell wouldn't happen. People wouldn't take this kind of money as it happens regularly when HDZ comes into position. Well, someone told me today here, during Sanader, it took a man four and five years to relax. So these started to solve it 4.5 months after the mandate started. Sanader only in the second term waved when, if you remember well when it worked like that. And now for four months, here's a group around HDZ figured out how to take and how to secure incredibly luxuriant contracts and how to make 12 million kunas, and on the other hand, nobody's talking about pensioners, but here are a few opposition MPs who are fighting to make them a better position than they had until yesterday. And on that side, let's all imagine how to change that mind set obviously now prevailing in the government, how to preserve ourselves, and on the other hand, how to help people who live hard and almost impossible from what they deserve during their work and during, I would say, and some and 40 years, and now they have embarrassingly small pensions and I simply can't live out of it. And it even makes me a little uncomfortable when I see these penalties for people who aren't present at the Parliament, says 1,500 kunas can be lost if 10 times they don't show up at the Parliament, now I see 305,000 people, 1500 kuna is their maximum pension, and the average is far below that. So we need to imagine about it and it should be a thread of leadership and it should be something that we here in the Parliament, and I hope that finally comes as Prime Minister Plenkovic is told to head now and in Croatia to government, and that he will not listen unspeakably and defend those who have sinned against some normal principles of conduct and governance in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82492	We have two replicas at the presentation of our colleagues, Maras. The first one's a colleague of Vlaovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82493	Thank you, Vice President. You told your colleague Maras that about 95,000 pensioners live with a pension of 500, 600 kuna. It's terrible to hear and unfair that pensioners, especially those who have retired from agriculture, craftsmen have such small pensions. The greater injustice, the vast majority of our citizens had no opportunity to get a job and have no pension and it is the right time, since we have a surplus in the state budget to consider introducing a national pension that, according to the HSS proposal, should not be below the poverty threshold of Eurostat, which is around 1800 kuna today. But no, that's not what you're talking about, that's not what you're worried about. The concern is that individuals through their counselling make millions of dollars for a few months of counseling. And those who have worked for years, invested in the pension system, we will punish them with 500 kuna less pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82494	Answer, come in, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82495	The average pension in Croatia today is insufficient for people to live, and what is worst of all I said, up to 1500 305 000, up to 2000 half a million, means every other pensioner has a pension less, each other has a pension of less than 2000 kuna. I agree with you, I don't even know where Prime Minister Plenkovic's cheek came from today to defend Minister Dalic so unspeakably, it's amazing to me. I need to go out on the road and look these people in the eye and tell them that, I'm going to defend one that made it possible for my own people to make millions of kunas, and about you, not that I'm not going to propose a national pension, so it's not going to happen almost anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82496	Next replica. My colleague Željko Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82497	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you were talking about how this government doesn't take care of its pensioners. She cares not at all about Croatian citizens, but about a narrow circle of interesting lobbys, which are assisted specifically by the Deputy Prime Minister. But I came forward because we're talking about pensions and another example of carelessness for Croatian citizens, and on tomorrow's day, nurses and technicians are refusing to provide emergency medical staff with an unfettered job. He doesn't want to secure the benefits of an extremely stressful, difficult profession where you can imagine a 64-year-old medical technician running into a break-in and pulling out a wounded man, he'll probably need to send another team to help a medical technician who's going to get hurt trying to help others. So the government doesn't want to secure an unfettered job internship for emergency medical staff and I believe that we must insist on that, too, from this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82498	Answer, come in, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82499	Thank you very much, colleague Jovanovic. Well, it's not just a nonsense. I'm telling you that even now people with now-of-the-canner work experience, it's obvious that the government's intensities to reduce the number of professions, yes, we've seen it on the inscriptions, to make one reform where people will go from two years to two years into retirement, from 2033 and to further capture another 300, 400 000 of our citizens who have already planned when they're going to retire. They say, in HDZ, says Prime Minister Plenkovic no, you will stay two longer, and many of them, as you said, will work on jobs that simply cannot work, not until 65, but will work until 67, so they will be extended to 2 years by these technicians you were just talking about here. So on that side, we have a completely executed government as far as those most needed and who should be cared for most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82500	Thank you, fellow Marasu. We're done with individual debates. Now we have two debates on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first one again is a colleague of Gordan Maras on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82501	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. I appeal to everyone, since we are not too much here today because there is no voting now at noon, but there will be a vote, tell your colleagues and colleagues that this point is very important to allow us to talk about issues that are important, which include over a million of our fellow citizens who will be even more tomorrow, given the demographic movements and we need to unite around these topics, and not argue and just listen to what the government will tell us or what the prime minister will tell us or what the president of the HDZ will tell us. So, on this side, the Croatian Parliament unfortunately lost a role that I see quite often symbolically in the lobby of the Croatian Parliament where the sky is painted above the Croatian Parliament and it suggests symbolically only the sky is above the Croatian Parliament. I would like it back, that symbolism and that decision, that we make decisions here in favour of our citizens, not to be the prime minister's biggest concern today whether Martina Dalic survives or doesn't, but rather whether we provide 100, 200 or 500 kuna bigger and more pensions for our pensioners. To think about it. Because if he won't think about it, we'll propose such a law and we'll vote him. So we are totally, I would say, neglected and lost in the Croatian Parliament the orientation of what is important. So, there is no discussion at all about these important topics, a little of this interest, and usually when we discuss such topics, very few representatives are present and there is no great interest in the debate. When discussing what is obvious, which is that Martina Dalic needs to leave the government and that there has been an unprecedented immoral activity, possibly with serious criminal acts, then what is obviously everyone arguing about, HDZ defends, opposition attacks, but it's obvious. That should have been settled by now. It is clear to all of us in Croatia that Mrs. Martina Dalic cannot remain a minister and that this seriously compromises the government and I believe that she may even end up with extraordinary elections. So that's very possible because nowhere in a normal civilized world would this go without such a situation to go to extraordinary elections. No matter who that pass to, who not past the people have lost confidence in the government of Andrej Plenkovic, and we all need to know that together. In order to solve the problems of the pensioners and what we are talking about here today, we must change the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82502	Thank you, fellow Marasu. And the next debate ends on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, counterpart Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82503	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Contrary to the opinion of my colleagues, I think that this topic in these hours and a half has caused strong attention and understanding of the people here in the Parliament of the Croatian Parliament because, if anything else, we have listened carefully and cut down the Law. Is that enough, I believe it isn't, but here's the thing about some of the more important topics of this, let's say, solid discussion and solid attention. What is important in the end to say, finally on behalf of the Club, is that we proposed credible interpretation by colleague Peja Grbin and I in good faith that we could solve the problem of emerging in time, a problem that was not predictable in 2002 because no one counted so early on the insurance internship with an increased duration to go into full retirement and no one predicted in 2002 that such dramatic differences would be between the pensioners due to the increase, or in their pensions, due to the increase in the accounting period for the calculation of the pension, so we were forced to equate it with an add-on of 4 to 27% that was later put into retirement. So we offered an elegant solution. The government, or the Committee on Legislatives and the Government, has been negative about this initiative. It is up to you to decide with full conscience all parliamentary representatives whether you will judge all today under 56 in the Republic of Croatia who are lucky to work and who will eventually have the chance to retire. Whether to contribute to a 20% intergenerational solidarity rate for the years of payments will have a 27% supplement or not. Not only do you decide on the fate of all citizens, but your rights as well, as Parliamentarians have since 2011, when they retire ordinary pensioners, pensioners who use their pension under general rules, not under privileged conditions. So the majority here, most of them under 56, will only have part of the internship in generation solidarity and this decision will leave them without, or by accepting this credible interpretation, being able to have 27% in accordance with article. 91. The Law on Pension Insurance and the Law on Appendixion, because this is a more precise interpretation, and in the event of refusal, according to the Legislative Committee's decision of this authentic interpretation, will be left without it and parliamentary representatives under 56 years of age, but what is much worse, all future pensioners present insurance companies in the Republic of Croatia under 56 who have ever had one year and one month of payment with the first pension pillar, the pillar of generation solidarity. Of course, this does not apply to those who had a first job or who had a job after January 1, 2002, because only then did they start to work, they do not have a payment in the first pension column. Therefore, my people are to offer this cold and argumentatively, my colleague Peja has announced, we will do this, we will ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of these provisions and the law on the addition, but in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act, we will see the fight continues. Unfortunately, we missed a very elegant solution to stop the leak while one drop is, and sometimes it's a big and strong river of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82504	Thank you. This concluded the debate on the proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The law on the addition of pensions under the Pension Insurance Act, and we will vote on the terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82505	Proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The law on the addition to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act is proposed by the Legislative Committee, the debate is concluded. I am voting on the proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The law on the pension add-on to the Pension Insurance Act, please vote. I find that most votes, 77 for and 2 abstentions, have decided not to give a credible interpretation of Article 3. The law on the addendum to peace, as proposed by the Committee on Legislatives, according to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82506	We continue with: - Proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 42(3). Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament ("National Journal", No. 116/99, 109/00. - authentic interpretation, 53/03, 167/03. – decision not to give a credible interpretation, 44/06. - Law on the National Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia, 19/07, 20/09/09. – authentic interpretation, 145/10, 24/11. – Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion, 93/11. - decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and 120/11. – purified text, 19/15, 104/15. - decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia). The proposer shall be the Legislative Committee on the basis of Article 210(3). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There is no colleague of Mira Bulj, no colleague of Ivan Vilibor Sincic. The next debate is counterpart Marko Simic between the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82507	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In the month of March we had a proposal to supplement and amend the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, during this change we discussed also a credible interpretation of whether the authentic interpreters should have room in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and whether the Croatian Parliament is authorized to give such interpretations at all. Here we see today that we have even two points on the agenda and that we are discussing credible interpretations. As for when we observe credible interpretation through the prism of some space and powers of parliamentary representatives and the Croatian Parliament, it should be said that the Constitutional Court in its decisions in 2004 and 2007 clearly gave some guidance and expressed its view on this interpretation, particularly in terms of feedback, indulging in the principle of government division and the very power of the Croatian Parliament itself to actually bring credible interpretations. It should be noted that from the 1990s to 2016 there were 30 credible interpretations, 18 times the Croatian Parliament made a decision to give an interpretation, 12 about not giving an interpretation. Today in this second item of the agenda relating to the submission of a credible interpretation of the Law of Elections in the Croatian Assembly of Article 42(3). The Committee on Legislatives, we, as the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, feel that the Committee on Legislative Law has decided in a perfectly correct and sound manner and suggested that there is no basis for giving credible interpretation in this case. As a club, we feel that the provision of the law is absolutely clear and that such credible interpretation is really not the place for this article of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82508	Thank you. We don't have a replica. Individual debate, colleague of the Podlonjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82509	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Unfortunately, this point passes in an extremely brief debate in which even on behalf of the draft Committee on Legislatives, the president has not taken the floor, and in fact it is an important issue that has been on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament for more than a year. And when I was preparing for exposure these days, I had to remember exactly what happened more than a year ago in February and March last year when we discussed this issue. Namely, what's this about? If someone were to look at this material that is attached to not giving a credible opinion, they would not understand what the matter is and what the problem is in this matter. In fact, in 2016, our colleague, Branimir Glavas, put his mandate on hold, instead of him from the joint coalition list of the two parties, his HDSSB party proposed candidate Josip Salapic for replacement, the Mandate-Immunity Commission accepted it, the Croatian Parliament accepted at its session and the debate was neither on the issue. However, it proved very quickly that there was a certain problematic situation in the replacement. Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission put in place Mr Salapic, who was appointed by the party, without looking at the list of candidates of the two parties, to see that the two candidates on the list had a preferential number of votes of more than 10%, based on which they should have had an advantage in determining the replacement of Mr Glavas, who put the mandate on hold. And there was a problem, and therefore the Mandate-Immunity Commission asked not to give or to give a credible opinion, that it had not been wrong and that it should not have respected the preferential votes for those candidates and that it had acted properly by respecting the party's proposal set by the deputy representative. And that raises the question of giving, or not giving, a credible opinion. As a parent working body, the Committee on the Constitution should first discuss this and refer its opinion to the Committee on Legislatives. The Committee on the Constitution discussed this in February of last year, at a time when I was still president of the Committee and in the debate, I pointed out that under the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, it is indisputable that when determining the replacement of MPs, it was first and foremost necessary to determine whether candidates who meet the condition of analog application of the preferential vote provisions, i.e. preferential votes, were present on that list. The analogue application meant that if there are candidates who have received more than 10% of the preferential votes in the election compared to the number of votes received by the candidate list, they have the advantage of determining a deputy representative who puts his mandate on hold or whose term of office ends on some other basis. In the discussion of the Committee on the Constitution, however, other MPs made no decision, since it was lost to the quorum and how familiar I am with my colleagues from the HDZ Club asked for a certain pause to determine their position on the matter. Later, the Committee on Legislatives, then the president, if I am not mistaken, found in March that he would not give a credible opinion to the mandated immunity commission and that he was standing unanimously on the Committee on Legislatives that the application of the provisions on preferential votes should be respected when determining the replacement of MPs. This means that the mandated immunity commission was wrong when it determined a replacement for a colleague, Glavas, who put his mandate on hold. However, since the item was not on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament all the past months, after 6 months in May last year, counterpart Glavas submitted a request for an end to the term of office, returned to the Croatian Parliament, a colleague then stopped his mandate, and in fact the story ended. But the fact is that over 6 months, we had in the Croatian Assembly of MPs who were not allowed to become a representative under the provisions of the Law on Elections of Representatives and according to a decision proposed by the Committee on Legislatives to the Croatian Parliament. This, of course, means just one more thing at this point, that this error can be corrected, not only by giving a credible opinion, but by not by giving this particular case the reasons for the application of the provisions on preferential votes when it comes to replacing candidates on the list, but by making it the best and the most correct way to amend the law in those provisions. The law is quite imprecise, a law that was made precisely in terms of determining replacements for a candidate who puts his mandate at rest, and then you have different situations to deal with the lists of one party, the lists of coalition parties, the independent list, so there are different combinations that offer different solutions. And we at MOST Club, considering this situation from last year in the law that we propose and which is on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, have proposed amendments to this article and have carefully prescribed a replacement for MPs who put their mandate on hold or who cease to hold on some other basis in such situations to respect the preferential votes received by candidates who are on the list, of course, with the current legal condition that they have at least 10% of these preferential votes. So the fact is, now that we're discussing this issue is that it's past time, but in any case, it would be good to put on the agenda the bill we've proposed because we think that the best and the right way to amend or supplement the law is, rather than a credible opinion that survived as an institute and after the last amendments to the Rules of Procedure. And this case also shows that until the end, both in application and in the practice of the law, it did not evoke the preferential vote and the respect of preferential votes because it is clear that the preferential votes are respected when it comes to determining the outcome of the election at the threshold that has now been set at 30%, but apparently when the candidate is replaced the wrong procedure and it is only good that future amendments to the law will take place, with the application of a credible opinion, when the Croatian Parliament makes a decision based on the proposed decision of the Committee on Law, these preferential votes will be respected in replacing any future exchanges of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82510	Thank you. At your presentation we have one replica, but before the replica we welcome students and students of Bjelovar Medical School. Give it up! Thank you. We're moving on. Comrade Glasnović, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82511	Dear colleague Podolnjak, I heard from your statement that it was some kind of procedural error in the matter of staffing in the Croatian Parliament. Okay, we're getting lost in those woods... Contradiction everywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have hundreds of regulations in the legislation, one that no one can understand, not all Hindu gods and Catholic saints. One quick question for you. Could they be in the Republic of Croatia in judicial bodies, the legislative bodies of people who are former UDBA associates whose files are in Belgrade, who worked for KOS. Here's a code name Vrbik, he's a constitutional judge today. The people who robbed state-owned companies, they're here. Some of them are SDP, now they're constitutional judges. What are we talking about? If we don't solve it... and staff policies, how can we lay down new laws? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the core of the problem in the Republic of Croatia that there's never been an academic, human lustration, let alone academic lustration. And that's where we take care of Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82512	Thank you. Answer, there you go, fellow Downhill.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82513	Thank you, dear colleague Glasnović. Today, the Law on Elections of Representatives provides for exactly who cannot be a representative in the Croatian Parliament and how his mandate ends. But I would like to say that the Law that we have proposed, which has not been discussed as a final proposal for a year, provides for the addition of the Law that persons convicted of certain crimes against which there are, so a final verdict would not be able to act as advocates in the Croatian Parliament or to be candidates, but that provision that we have incorporated into the Law on Local Elections is not still part of the Law on Elections of Representatives, and we again appeal that it is all legislation that would settle this issue of who may be the candidate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82514	Thank you, comrade Podolnjak. And on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, final colleague Bauk Arsen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The club of SDP representatives agrees that there is no need for credible interpretation of something which is clearly clear and unequivocal and agrees that it was also a mistake, and since we confirmed it in the Croatian Assembly, then there is no point in... The responsibility that we did not notice when we replaced Glavas with the state secretary present here today, Mr. Salapic, and that the error was so quietly corrected after 6 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the consequences of this lack of credible interpretation of the Law can only be reduced to one sentence, which is that the parliamentary majority depends on the timing of the Supreme Court's decision in the second instance in the case of Glavas, because if Mr Glavas is confirmed a first-degree verdict, he will cease to be a representative and enter Mr Šišljagic, and then you will have to negotiate with him whether he will be part of the parliamentary majority or not, and in that sense, the Supreme Court is also the key of the parliamentary majority, not wanting to reconsider his decision, but it would be good for him to make it so that he does not hang over this parliamentary majority that colleagues from the paramentary majority can sleep peacefully if they are not already dissolved in this case, Ms Dalic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82516	I thank my colleague, Buku. That's how we conclude the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82517	Proposal for a decision on the non-reliable interpretation of Art. Article 4 Law on election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, NN No. 116/99 109/00 authentic interpretation 53/03 167/03. Decision not to give a credible interpretation 44/06 of the Law on the State Election Commission of the Republic of Croatia 19/07 20/09 of the authentic interpretation 145/10 24/11 of the Law on the financing of political activities, election promotion 93/11 of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and 120/11 of the consolidated text 19/15 104/15 of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on Legislatives, the debate is closed. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The rules of procedure for making this decision require a semi-half majority of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal for that decision, please vote. I find that most of the votes 77 for and 2 abstentions were made in the text as proposed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82518	The following exact agenda is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading of P.Z. No. 326 Proposers are the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and the Club of Representatives of the HSS on the basis of Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The government also delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Comrade Goran Aleksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82519	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On the agenda today is the first part of so-called. An anti-executive package that has been prepared in the last month or two and supported by the Live Wall and SNAGA Club, the MOST Club and the HSS Club. Why did I call it an anti-executive package? I'm not against the performance, I've never been against the performance, but the performance in which they are now carried out is extremely rigorous, extremely harmful, evidence is the number of blocked citizens, evidence is the money mass that is blocked in the future. So the total debts of blocked citizens are huge, and they are huge because of the rigorous executive system that favors primarily the believers, lawyers and public notaries. It's possible to change, it should have changed yesterday, it should have changed in the last amendments to the executive law in one part, but there was no hearing to change it in a way that was optimal. So it's not the goal of what I'm proposing to prevent the believers from getting their debts back, their claims to actually get back, it's the goal of reducing the executive costs and reducing the tightening interest. So this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations is going towards reducing the part relating to tight interest. There are two provisions that want to change. One provision would reduce the tight interest in such a way that it must not exceed the principal of the debt in total. And the second provision goes in the direction that the payment of claims is changed the way it is now prescribed. It is now prescribed that when demanding certain debts, the cost is first charged, then the interest is charged and the principal is ultimately charged. The proposal is that this, in order of turn, be charged first by the principal, then the cost, and only at the end, the interest tightened. I have experience from the Franak Association where I often take part in consultations and in the stands of the Franak Association where other than people affected by the illegal operations of banks come people who just because of this illegal business of banks have come into excessive debt, their loans have been cancelled. And because of these cancelled loans, a complete loan comes in for payment, a complete remainder of the debt. So someone who's an example. The debt of 500 thousand kuna, which should be paid in the next 20 years due to irregular debt payments, is immediately charged to a total of 500 thousand kuna. I'm setting this up as an example. And now that this man can really have a hard time paying his debts on those 500 thousand kunas, there's a tight interest coming in, and there's some expense if some extra lawyers get hired, there's a expense coming in, and in that case, first the charge is charged, so there's a tight interest charge, and then the principal is charged. And what's going on with these people? They come and say I pay every month some amount, 2,000, 3,000 kuna, but my debt is always the same, my debt is not reduced. And it doesn't shrink him exactly because he keeps paying off a tight interest first of all. And he pays off a tight interest and pays off a tight interest and can't make it to the capital. If we change the order of payment of claims, such a debtor could finally start paying off the principal. Now, the government's argument that opposes this proposal is not real to me, it's not even true, but they simply rejected the proposal primarily because the proposal came from the opposition, although I like to say to myself that I am no opposition but I am trying to be constructive and to propose solutions that should be acceptable to everyone here in the assembly. However, this does not happen because of the tradition that the opposition, the opposition, the government is the government and there is no cooperation where quality shifts could be made. And then the explanation of why it is not accepted that the tightening interest must not exceed the height of the principal is that it will thus prevent the believer from charging the interest. An explanation of why order would not go the other way but as the claims now go similar to the reasons for tight interest that cannot exceed the principal size. When the government says the tightening interest cannot be prescribed in a way that does not cross the size of the principal, it calls for an EU directive that says it is not allowed. But the government is wrong. I will not say that the government is lying, because the government may not have had one decision from the EU court in its knowledge. The EU court, last year, made a decision under the code C 256/15. This ruling C 256/15 speaks of a case on Slovenia where the previous question is whether the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Slovenian Law on Mandatory Relations, in accordance with EU law in the part in which it is prescribed that the tightening interest should not exceed the size of the principal. So the Slovenians have the Law on Mandatory Relations, which requires what I propose, which is what we propose, the Living Wall Club and the SNAGA Club, the MOST Club and the HSS Club. So Slovenians have it so prescribed and it was so prescribed during the time we lived in socialism. In democracy, it's out of the way even though I don't think socialism is something outside of democracy. Democracy and socialism are not terms that can be compared. The concepts of democracy and totalitarianism or authoritarianism are compared, and the concepts of democracy and socialism are not compared because these are not comparable concepts, the concepts of socialism and capitalism are compared. But in this socialism, however, it was prescribed that the principal, the tightening interest, should not exceed the size of the principal. The Slovenians also inherited this principle, and in their Law on Mandatory Relations, it continues to say that the tightening interest must not go beyond the size of the principal and the EU Court in one process to the previous question of whether the provision of the Slovenian law is in accordance with EU law, it is short and clear that this provision is not contrary to EU law. Since this provision is not the opposite of EU law, then the Government is wrong when it calls for an EU directive, because the EU Court is above that directive. When the EU Court says something is in line with the EU's law, it means it is neither contrary to the directive. It's very simple, it's math. I often say it's real math. The right is indeed mathematics and one who does not understand mathematics should not be engaged in law. It's my humble opinion. So much so that the tightening interest cannot exceed the size of the principal and that it is contrary to the EU directive. So it is not the opposite of the EU directive, it is not the opposite of EU law and there is no reason not to prescribe it. There's no reason, the reason can be just a drop of someone else's government, anywhere that won't allow it. The second provision that speaks of changing the order of payment of claims also has no obstacle to regulation as proposed. However, on the Justice Committee, I received a statement and that remark is acceptable to me, my colleague Miljenic said it was wrong for the chief to be in front of the cost, and that is realistic and logically true, and I agree with that. And that's why between the two readings if this goes to the second reading, and I know it won't pass, there's no way it's going to pass, but I have to say, if it goes to the second reading of this proposal, we're going to change the order for the final proposal, and in the final proposal it won't say that the principal goes first, so the cost is going to say that the cost goes first and then the principal. Why? Because it is true that a believer must not be burdened with the cost, it is true, and that order should be different, so the proposal will be amended if my colleagues from the clubs agree with me and "he will have to" because it is realistic and logical, so that the proposal will be changed for the final proposal in a way that will write the first expense then the principal and only at the end of the interest. Again, the government's argument that it prevents the believer from getting his interest or making interest does not hold water. Why? If we have some kind of debt chief 100, it doesn't matter what 100. These 100 are charged with a tight interest. The annual high interest rate for consumers is about 7.09%. If the consumer returns 10 after a year, the tight interest has increased to 7.09 because 100, 7.09% of 100 is equal to 7.09. So if the debtor returns 10 at the end of the period of one year, he's already due on this proposal as I suggest, 90+7,09 and it's not exactly true that the believer won't earn a tight interest, he'll earn it but the tight interest won't be counted on 100 but will be calculated on 90. According to the current method of payment, we have a situation that if someone returns 10 that will be due 100, -7.09, excuse me 100 minus the difference between what it makes and the rest of what is charged. If 10 is what is returned, 7.09 of it is returned with a tight interest. Let's round to 7, so 10 minus 7 is equal to 3, which means 3 of the principals are returned. And according to the current payment of claims, the debtor who paid off 10 after a year will be 97, will still be charged a tight interest on those 97. If a proposal departing from these 3 clubs were accepted, then the debtor would, after paying off 10, be in debt 90 + 7,09, press interest. And on these 90, you'd be charged again with a tight interest. And in the end, the believer would get a whole debt and a tight interest. The explanation that the believer will go to court for this and demand that he be paid for some damage, doesn't hold water. There's no harm done because he's gonna get that tight interest. If he didn't get that tight interest in the end, then there would be damage. So, I said, I'm ready to change order in a way that first goes the cost, then goes the principal and eventually squeezes the interest, that's real. And it should also be explained to those people who don't understand that it's not about annuities. So in the annuities there's no charge first interest, first principal. Anuity is one complete whole. Anunities are predetermined. Whoever pays off the loan, he has predetermined to pay off a loan in annuities or wars, and here it is known precisely in the annuity and in the war how much interest is, how much is the principal's amount. And the man who is late with the charge of the annuity will be cancelled from his credit will receive a full payment loan, so that doesn't apply to that order of claims because annuities are charged in the set. And if the anuities don't charge in the set, in time, the believer will cancel the loan. And only when the believer cancels the loan, when the full amount of credit comes on the charge, does she start talking about this order of claims that I'm talking about in this proposal that we're discussing today. I wouldn't be too long, I think that I've said enough, I just have to say that this is the first part of the anti-executive package, and I'm stressing the anti-executive is not in the sense that it's against the exercise, but in the sense that the cost of spending is reduced and the second part is the part relating to the amendments to the executive law which is related to this amendment of the Law on Mandatory Relations, because it also speaks of reducing costs and this cost reduction directly affects and then in this situation where we are talking about the order of collection where if we cut costs and that fee will be much more effective. I argue that if this proposal is accepted but also a proposal to amend the Implementing Law, it will be drastically reduced within 2, 3, 4 years or at least slowed down the growth of debt of debtors that are under way and in blockades. And that's the real anti-executive package, and these are the right anti-executive measures, which will reduce the costs of the implementation while these measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia temporarily make things easier for someone but, below all, they will not help them, because after all these people eventually reduce some of their executive costs at some point in time when they come into force, if they come into effect at all, it will only be temporary, but in a few months these people will get into trouble again, while what we are proposing from the 3 clubs in the long term can solve the problem maybe for 50% of people who are under wraps and blocks, and maybe more. Here's thank you for listening to me, so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82520	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have two replicas. You're looking for something? ... Like a replica or something? ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Here you go. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82521	Mr. Vice President, because of a dramatic statement by a member of the Living Wall Club that they are no opposition, please a 10-minute break to consult on continuing participation in the debate on the basis of their proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82522	Unfortunately, I can't give you a break because SDP had a break from his colleagues in the morning... Well, yes, my right to respect the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is only my right to be here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] What? ... If they want to, we'll continue, here's your turn, here's my colleague Bauk. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82523	Since Mr. Vice President didn't approve of my break, then I didn't have time to consult with my clubmates to continue the debate, so I'm giving up the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82524	Okay. Next replica, I hope you've managed to consult a colleague, Tomislav Sagar, on behalf of the club, so you can start with a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82525	Thank you, Vice President. I just wanted to say to my dear colleague, Alexic, thank you for this comprehensive explanation. And what I have concluded, this law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Here were two laws that, despite their abuses, achieved certain and positive results, that is the Law on Pre-bank settlements, I say despite their abuses and the Law on Systemically Important Companies, that is so-called. lex Agrocor. Because in both cases, it was going to save jobs. It was primarily the thought of a legislator to solve the problem of people who are employed in these companies, on the side now I say mobsters who used it. But here the same logic is 325 000 people, their fates are to be discussed here, to be solved, you offer a reasonable solution, so 3 clubs offer a reasonable solution to finally, at least to ease this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82526	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82527	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you see, the situation with the accomplished and blocked citizens is indeed dramatic. As long as there's nothing dramatic here in Parliament, but there's sensations every once in a while. These sensations prevent us from doing the right thing, and because of these sensations, we have an amended Rules of Procedure that no longer allows the normal debate as we had, only because we were doing dramatics, sensations and nonsense around the Croatian Parliament. If we were all together, both the government and the opposition, working together to solve problems such as this problem we are talking about today, we might be much better quality to help Croatian citizens get out of the problems they are in, but we seem to be only here because of our own interest, because of our own political tribe, it refers to both opposition and power, and I think that this is not good. We need to put all our will and strength together for the benefit of Croatian citizens, and these changes are precisely in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82528	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Mara Jelkovac, president of the Legislative Committee, has no colleagues from Orsat. Does the government want a representative? He doesn't want to, okay. That's how I open the discussion. The first is the registered Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a colleague of Hrvoje Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think that fellow Alexic explained the whole story well and that there is nothing special to add. However, I would a little touch what my colleague Alexic was saying about what the order of payments actually works in reality and how it would change if the order of payments changed, so we are talking about situations when loans were cancelled and the total amount came to be charged. I've arranged it for you like this, so if you can track it, if anyone's interested. So there's one bottom line of debt above that you're actually entering indemnity debt, maybe even for life, unless you get on Eurojackpot or something. Let's just say it's a person who's been out of a job for a year, and after that year, she's re-employed at the salary of 4000 kuna. According to the Executive Act, a quarter of the salary is paid below, and three quarters are protected. So you have a situation like this, someone who has a salary of 4000 kunas, pays 1000 kuna a month, or is tightened by it. If the debt that came to him, I took this example of 190.000 kuna, it may go a little less, but there's a limit to the irreparability of the debt. With 1000 kuna per month, this person pays off, or is paid a yearly fee of 12,000 kuna, or is charged to that debt of 9840 kuna, because 2160 kuna goes to the fees of FINA for each transaction, i.e. FINA is paid for each 180 kuna transaction, regardless of whether it costs 1000 kuna, 500 kuna or 300 kuna. If 300 kunas are tightened with the tip, the FINA of those 300 kunas takes 180 kunas in compensation and now imagine what that would look like. But here, on this example of the salary of 4000 kuna and 1000 kuna tightening, after one year, the debt on which the heavy interest is calculated falls to 180 160 kuna. When the amount of the bill is resuscitated at 7.09%, you see this person is in debt 192 933 kuna which is almost 3000 kuna more than the amount that was at the beginning of the payment. And so every year. So people like that who are busy in this situation, they're blocked for life, they can't get out of the blockade at all. Except for what I said, if they win the lottery. I think it is important that in the Croatian Parliament, meaning the highest legislative body in the country, we finally find that the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian society are exposed to a problem that has escalated to such extent that in the context of recent events we can freely call it a system problem. It is certainly about the problem of over-indebted citizens and other private rights persons who are manifested in Croatia in the worst possible form and have devastating and devastating consequences for society but also for the economy and demographic trends. This problem in numbers tells us about 325 000, now slightly more blocked citizens who owe more than 43 billion kuna in total. Correct me if I'm wrong, but at the total height of these unpaid or unpaid liabilities of our fellow citizens, we're talking about a problem the size of a Agrokor. And I think it's about time we all got a good idea of that. If the problem of completed and blocked citizens is observed in this context, it is easy to conclude by analogy that the emergency situation requires extraordinary solutions or extraordinary measures, and it is the right time for us to give our citizens trust, here 15, to tackle the problem and to resolve this proud node of overindebtedness that limits both social and economic and overall progress of our society. Here's a little depression, since there's Mr. Salapic. It might be okay if now in this consultation of the public is about this 3 law that you've let out, considering that in some way, when someone is playing the blockade, automatically or one way or another, it means protecting the amount that's protected under the Executive Act because many people, when it comes to the execution or when they're sitting down, they don't know it at all, and then the whole pay for that month is taken off the bill, they come to the ATM or to the bank and they see that they don't have any more swears in the account. I'm telling you this because people like that come into a new problem that month because they can't pay for electricity, water or any other direction and it opens up new blockades. So I think maybe if you could consider putting it into these measures that you let out. It seems that these simple facts these days have finally reached our government, which has long sought to escape from solving this problem that has been very effectively ignored by it, all by justifying itself that this problem is not since yesterday and that I agree with that claim, indeed the problem has not since yesterday, its appearance and escalation coincided with a major economic crisis which has become brutally heavy in Croatia around 2008. At that time, some ministers closed their eyes to the coming recession or reduced its proportions. As time has shown, the recession on small Croatia has been derailed with ruthless ferocity and because of the impotentity or potential of our governments in implementing reforms, it has lasted longer than in one EU member state. In the meantime, our political elites formed a crazy system of law enforcement, in which at the same time three executive laws were in force. So the former HDZ government introduced the public enforcement system to be abolished by the SDP by a law that came into force before it was proposed. In this whirlwind of the legal uncertainty of the legislator, the emotional secession of our political elites from our fellow citizens' daily problems, it was clear who would get hurt, and these are the weakest. If we had all this in mind, instead of listening to the government's grief today that they have to catch up with the problem they didn't create, it would be fairer for the government to go out to the Croatian public and all our citizens and admit that you created this cabbage, meaning not this government just but the last few governments, to apologize for all the troubles and troubles you've afforded the people and to solve the problem quickly and without delay. There have been various solutions in the public for a long time, there have been serious and constructive solutions, and there have been enough of these solutions to listen to, meaning hearing little and what communicates, say the President of the Republic or the Association Blocked various civil initiatives, etc., and some media and this means that it agrees in a meaningful law that will also implement as one problem and the issue of blocked citizens as another problem, solve quickly, efficiently and cheaply. What we have been able to read so far from what has been released outside and what is announced to be released to the Executive Act is that the Executive Law will be new, this newer, better, more beautiful, by model, to the Austrian model but will be incorporated into the existing system. So FINA, public notebooks and other parasites in that order will still remain, perhaps with slightly smaller fees. We have to say that it was convenient for me to see two ministers when they represented those three new laws, two ministers, one by one, saying that they would try to influence the fact that FINA would reduce the fees, and next to it is the minister who prescribed those fees. So he's not prescribing the fine fees he's charging. Unlike you, we are constantly seeking solutions to the problems of completed and blocked citizens and communicate them as we know them. Last year, we were all aware that it was only one transitional and temporary solution aimed at somehow facilitating the position of people who were exposed to long-term tasks until a whole-term solution even in a reduced range without amendments proposed by the Most, this law has caused some positive effects. But in the Most, as well as the rest of the opposition, I agree with my colleague, Alexic, that in fact we should all do so together, we should not be divided into opposition and power by such at least questions. We will continue to potentify this issue, open it at every step of the way we can among citizens, and in the stands, and round tables etc. The problem was recognized, however, by some media, so it finally had to be recognized by the government and that's also good. At the end of the day, I would like to tell you this one thing that's been spinning on my head for the last few days, which is that in these advanced countries scientists, politicians have been thinking lately about how many jobs will reflect the progress of artificial intelligence, robotics, automation, etc. and how countries will deal with the problem in which machines take over people's jobs. We already have, I don't know, autonomous trucks driving from one end of Europe to another without drivers, etc. During that time, while this advanced world is dealing with such problems, we in Croatia are not able to solve 325 000 blocked and one such situation, and one of these questions arises, in fact, if Croatia is one day also a country where automation, artificial intelligence and robots will take up many jobs, will we be a country where 4 million will be blocked? Because there won't be work for people. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82530	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82531	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. A similar proposal was discussed Wednesday by the SDP. I'll brief on this proposal in front of the HDZ Club. In this regard, the proposed Act amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations proposes that the tightening interest cease to run once they reach the height of the principal debt. This solution is not acceptable to us at the HDZ club because it is the opposite purpose of interest and because of the legal nature of interest, and also because of the legal framework which is sufficiently protected from the payment of excessive interest. The heavy interest rate is a predetermined fee resulting from the debt delay in fulfilling a certain monetary obligation and running until it is met. In the Croatian legal system, there is a limited level of the rate of tight interest, and it is also obliged to protect it by principle by prohibiting the billing of interest on the amount of outstanding interest. The proposed solution would encourage creditors to carry out the damage suffered by the debtor's delay in litigation pursuant to Article 30(2). The PDO would lead to an increase in the number of disputes and additional burden on courts. The proposal to change the order of calculation in a way that first smells the principal so costs and only at the end of interest is also not acceptable because the costs directly burden the believer, regardless of whether he will succeed in settling interest and principal. In addition, this would mean that the settlement of the principal, interest on the principal's amount, cease to flow while the debtor would continue to use the trustee's money with unsettled rent of interest on the amount owed. That amount due to the ban on the billing of interest on the amount of outstanding interest, interest is also not running. The proposed Article 2 of the proposed amendments and additions to the law is written in such a way as to apply to all debtors, and it is not acceptable to relate to obligations arising from trade contracts and contracts between the trader and the person of public law, as they are expected to meet their obligations within the deadlines, to which they are bound by the special regulation of the Financial Business Act and the pre-departure agreement. Consumers, i.e. our citizens, are already particularly protected because the rate of legal tightening interest on them is lower than the rate of legal tightening interest provided for in the trade contracts and contracts between the trader and the person of public law. Article 3 of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law also proposed that the provisions apply to legal matters agreed before the law itself enters into force, which is constitutionally questionable from the point of view of breach of legal certainty. For all of these reasons, we cannot accept the proposed amendment and addition of the Law, but I would also like to say that we believe that the new Executive Act, which is in preparation, will certainly contribute to a better position for all blocked in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82532	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which they will speak a respected representative of the Goddess Makar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82533	My colleagues and colleagues, yeah, that's where it ends up. Okay, I didn't notice. Here, we now have one similar law that we discussed two days ago. In fact, we all agree that the problem blocked in the Republic of Croatia is a big problem. But also the fact that each situation is an individual situation. And that there are different blocks, so I'm not going to talk about it, but I'm going to look more at this relationship between the creditors and the debtors, that's this contractual relationship because it's a relationship where they willingly enter and negotiate terms. The fact is that debtors are often in a more unfavourable position because they must accept the conditions offered to them and not be able to change them. But we also had situations where the debtors were far more protected from the credentials and the believers had no rights whatsoever, so it tried to make it even by law that first of all those rights were even. In terms of reason, we've heard that it's actually about math. That it's pure mathematics, if you don't understand. Life, however, is not mathematics. Each situation is a fate and should be seen and above all I know and I have knowledge that anyone who has come into any difficulty, especially with banks, where large amounts are involved, perhaps in card houses somewhat less, that they have tried to arrange some methods of payment, that they have tried because the believer's aim is to collect the same. It's not the believer's goal to destroy the debtor, and now I'm going to sell your claims for 20% of the value, so what I get, I get. No, and in such cases it is important whether the debtor properly presented his situation, whether he negotiated further in a settlement that he could objectively execute. I know it's very difficult when you're without any income to make a deal and take some kind of commitment. However, a moratorium could also be agreed on the repayment of loans. I know it wasn't even a tight interest after that, but there was a deal between tight and regular interest, but often too much obligation for the debtor is a fact. Perhaps this law has tried to make this kind of change see what further reduction of the tight interest is. Is it there, because I've tried a little bit to see what other countries have. No EU Member State, regardless of this verdict, has done so in the way proposed by this Law regulated this area of mandatory relations. Slovenia, which you have called here, is the concept of tight interest defined in art. 374. The Mandatory Relations Act, their bond code, which regulates that the debtor, except for the principal, owes and tightens interest when so provided by law or, if so, agreed by the believer and debtor. It means that a believer and a debtor can make a different arrangement, not by law or by lower, which is often not the case with us. If the debtor is late in carrying out the monetary obligation, he shall, in accordance with Art. 378th, st.1. This law, apart from the principal, owes and tightens interest and they are obliged to settle just as regulated by us, so first tighten interest then the principal. They are also prohibited from accounting interest on interest, as is the case with us, and that is why this is the reason why it is not done in a different way, in order to reach them, but unpaid interest is not accounted for by tight interest. So, you're not allowed to add a tight interest to an unpaid amount of interest, so if that's done, it's zero. Therefore, as we had reason not to accept the Law in such a form, especially where it is proposed and the costs applied first, to charge the costs first, we know that the costs are later not yet agreed, but those costs must be paid by the believer, that they are often not proportionate to debt especially when it comes to smaller debts not to banks, perhaps to card houses, but to teleperators and other companies, and that is the fact. But that the law in that form is not acceptable. Here, and the first-reading counsel club won't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82534	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by a respected representative, Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82535	Thank you. In short, I will just say that what is now being explained in the Slovenian Law on Mandatory Relations, but those parts that I have not even mentioned. I said that in the Slovenian law it was prescribed that the tightening interest cannot exceed the size of the principal. This is in the Law on Mandatory Relations in Slovenia, and this has been confirmed by the EU Court of Justice that it is not contrary to EU law. The second thing you mentioned was not me at all, as to the Slovenian law, not a single word I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82536	Thank you. Then we will continue with the next Club of Representatives and this is the SDP on behalf of which will speak respected representative Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82537	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. So two days ago, we had a debate on Wednesday and our proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Relations. Then we very, very clearly explained everything about this proposal. And here is how before us today the law of the club SNAGA, the Living Wall, is in a similar way solving the mentioned problem, very briefly, the SDP club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82538	Thank you very much. We are now moving on to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82539	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is one topic, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Mandatory Relations, and this is when you read another amendment and addition of the law, but actually one very, very serious topic. We are witnesses in Croatia and we see how many are blocked, how much our fellow citizens are struggling with the next fact. So how did someone get into this situation? As many people as there are there are fates. Someone came in because they reinvested, someone came in because they wanted something more than they could, someone came in for a simple reason that some basic elemental stuff had to be solved. And now it remains in something that can be called debt slavery. It can't be brought into a situation to pay off the principal, it pays off the interest all the time, pays off the costs, pays off everything else, and that friend of his will also transfer to his successors, and that's the thing that everyone, whether we're sitting in this assembly on the left, on the right, or in the center, we can agree on. We can agree that this should be resolved, we can agree that this is one of the key problems that we need to solve in Croatia, and that all consent stops. We had a chance to discuss one law proposed by the SDP club, so now we have another model. And whether or not model A is either model B or model C, the opposition thus orders and says, my people are the problem, the problem we need to solve. We need to help our citizens, take the model of Slovenia, take the model of any country, propose our model but is the problem we need to solve. And then what do we have? We've got a ruling one. It's like in that village story, the old lady's combing. And now we have a ruling who no matter what we suggest and the way we propose they keep talking their way. So the message in this way why the opposition proposes to change the first, change the second, and change the third, and change the fourth, for the simple reason that the citizens say my people, do something. We're in a situation that's dramatic, in a hopeless situation, we don't know what to do anymore, give us a hand and do something. These changes proposed by the opposition are actually an invitation to the rulings to make something, suggest something. If it's for the benefit of the citizens, we'll accept it and there's no need to watch who was first, who was smarter, who put it better. We need to take a look at the ultimate interest. If we're done, the number of blockeds we can reduce in any way, that's our obligation, that's our task, that's ours, that's ours, that's our citizens chose us not to count how many of us we sit here or listen to where we're worldly differences, we've been chosen by citizens for reasons you do something and help something. This, too, was an opportunity for you, and when the SDP club explained it, the same thing when a colleague Alexic said, we agree that there should be some other option and some other variant just do something. And unfortunately, we're aware of the following facts, it's not even too late, look how many of us there are, we're talking, we're talking about something, and it's going to be next week when there's enough hands to vote and they're going to bounce like they said from the ruling clubs, and they're going to say no to this proposal. And then we will come with some other proposal and we will come with some third proposal and some other proposal will refuse and some third proposal will refuse. And while we're here discussing interest growth, number, problem, growing further, the problem of those who are now in trouble will only be bigger and some others will be just smaller. The model and the key to the story is different, someone started because they reinvested, but someone went because they didn't have a choice. He has no choice today, and today he's paying for something and he's going to pay for it. So these demands that came from the opposition side is cry out, is wish, is message, is scream. My people, we've come to a certain point and we have to do something. Since the proposal did not come from the ruling, proposals come from the opposition. We won't be stubborn and we won't tell our proposal was the best possible, suggest something, we'll support it. But they also have some things on the side of the opposition that could be supported, not supported. Don't be stubborn, stubborn in the end everyone will be stubborn and we won't know why. The task is to help the citizens, if we can help the citizens through one small amendment of the law, it is our obligation and our task, and nobody prevents anyone from doing one whole package, one whole solution. But while we're doing the whole thing, things go where they don't need them. I always like to express myself vividly. It's like a situation you have a house, a roof leaks out, and you're not cutting the roof, you're waiting for a complete reconstruction of the house. At the end when you reach the complete reconstruction of the house – there is no house. This is a cry for something to be made. Take these suggestions, make them different, suggest, but do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82540	Thank you. We have two replicas, one respected representative of Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82541	Thank you. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I have already said several times that the problem is that we do not actually have a legislative authority because there is an equal legislative authority. So, the MPs of the majority sit here just to push the button for or against depending on what the government wants. And that's our big problem. Here, they're not here to hear the arguments at all, and they're supposed to be here to hear the arguments I'm talking about. Even colleague Jelkovac, who heard the arguments and who I told before she said that I was ready to change the order, that the costs go first, and then the principal, she didn't hear it at all, but she just read what she wrote in advance and didn't look back at what I said at all. So, you don't listen to what's being said and you don't care what anybody's saying, because they all have a pre-founded position, and that's the position of the government of the Republic of Croatia and counterpart Salapic, if he wasn't in the government, he would support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82542	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82543	Thank you very much. My colleague Alexic, so I think otherwise, and I am convinced that this country can only go forward when one government or one variant continues where the other left off and all that's good, what's done goes on and what's bad, it's bad, maybe if the rest worked differently. That's not how we do it. I've heard the argument in this assembly countless times, and neither have you, so why haven't you. So that's the rhetoric we need to stop with. Likewise myself, we at the GLAS Club have no problem supporting the law and voting for the law for which we consider it good, that it is reasonable, that it is in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It's just like that I'm waiting for one step. Ruler should show that size and say, you suggested something good, we'll support it. I'd like to know when that day will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82544	The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82545	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, I'd just like to expand what you said. So this is just one of a series of opposition proposals to solve a really important problem and all solutions have been rejected. Well, I can't believe we didn't suggest anything meaningful and good. On the other hand, we haven't been able to support what most people suggest, which I think is good or is the best solution we have. This reminds me of that situation, you like to be picturesque, so now I'm gonna be. There were two women in the village fighting, and eventually they forgot why they were fighting, but they're in a fight. So, we can be constructive together, on our part, I don't think the construction is wrong because all the opposition clubs proposed a series of legal solutions, and most of them systematically refused. If they offered solutions, I wouldn't say anything, but they don't offer them. We offer them, and they won't accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82546	The answer of Honorable Representative Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82547	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic. What you said was actually a fact. The fact is, we're offering some solutions. I understand if it's something secular, so one is buried on one side, the other on the other side and I understand that. But this is about helping the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and we all agree that we should help. However, it is not at all considered in the context of this view, something they have suggested is good, let's see, maybe we can modify it a little bit and accept it. That would be acceptable to us, too. So it's unacceptable not to solve the problem and that's what we point to. I've got problems I can get rid of. We had, we voted yesterday on the OIB Act, which was the idea of helping a thousand children who were adopted, the way they should be dealt with. If the government had said, the way you suggested it wasn't good, but we're going to suggest it, we would have given up on our own and supported it, but unfortunately we didn't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82548	Thank you very much. The next individual debate should be a respected representative of Gordan Maras. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And by doing that, I'm going to conclude a debate on this point. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We'll now take one break from eight minutes to 13.00 hours. At 13.00 a.m., those clubs that applied will be their positions, so we'll see you in eight minutes, and otherwise, on Wednesday, we'll begin work at 09.30 p.m. and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on the European Partnership, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading, P.Z. Number 235, and of course you'll get the plan during the day for the whole week and here we are in seven minutes. It's 12.53 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-11-0.u82549	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading of P.Z. No. 326 is proposed by the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club, the Independent Lists Bridge Club and the HSS Representatives' Club. The debate is concluded in accordance with the proposal of parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, no proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory Relations, let us vote, please. I find that most of the votes, 73 for and 1 abstention and 5 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Let's go to the last debate, Club of Representatives of the SDSS esteemed colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
