ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am asking for a recess to consult at the club on the statistical report, because I think it is necessary in Croatia to include in this report the corruption index in view of the pragmatic capitalism that experienced yesterday its true eruption in the national and university library. So the partners were in the National and University Library yesterday, Mrs. Dalic, Mr. Borg, i.e. a group of borgs, and under the auspices of HDZ yesterday organized a presentation and yesterday was a national day of corruption and partner capitalism, and the common denominator is the euro, i.e. the dollar. So that's all they care about and we have to consult about it. Because it is a shame that in Croatia, Mrs. Dalic, who made it possible for her friends and Mr. Plenkovic to draw 10 million kunas from Agrokor and earn money in such a way that they still explain to us yesterday as if they were the saviors of Croatia. It is a shame, Croatian citizens do not support it. That's what I think, corruption at its strongest, and we all have to stand up to it together. And I'm going to tell Mrs. Dalic here that she didn't do the job, because yesterday Mr. Jandrokovic wasn't there, and he knows best who could come back and who would come back, so I think it's also a signal to Mrs. Dalic that she didn't do the right thing and that she did the wrong thing, that it's corruption and that Croatian citizens won't forget it. It's embarrassing, and we want to consult about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101266	I'll let you take a break to 11.48 or 11.50, that's better. THE PURPOSE
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101267	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.50 HOURS]] The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yes, the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zdravko Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101268	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This report, which we have today, is the Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2017, and it is also the last report to be carried out for the period covered by the multiannual programme or document of the DZSS called the Programme of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2013 to 2017. In addition to providing information on the activities carried out, this report contains a review of the most significant development activities and a review of the most interesting results of statistical research. Perhaps, in the opening and most important words, modernization has been achieved in terms of the creation of the report itself and the procedural methods done by the DZSS, and 20 % savings were achieved compared to the burden of taxpayers who, according to previous statistical reports or other activities in connection with these activities. The modernisation that, of course, continues to run full time is if we look from the point of view at the cost of material or paper, achieved that we once had 11 million pages, now it was reduced to 200,000 pages a year, it became all informative. Therefore, by virtue of the Law on State Statistics, the DZS itself in cooperation with other holders or authorised bodies of official statistics, draws up a draft proposal for a conclusion, it is discussed and accepted on the Statistical Council which would have been adopted unanimously on 8 May. Only the report puts a special emphasis on the integration of the statistical systems of the Republic of Croatia into the European statistical system and on enabling the comparability of the statistics of the Republic of Croatia with the data of EU member states. This is also understandable because we are a member of the EU and, in that sense, the DZSS budget itself is done at 80-20, in terms of 80 per burden of state budget funds, 20 per EU burden. Therefore, according to the Law on Official Statistics, the annual implementation plan is prescribed to conduct three types of research, the first is a statistical survey based on direct data collection, then statistical research, which is obtained from administrative sources or methods of observation and monitoring, as well as final development activities, lists and other more extensive statistical research. The following best European practice relating to the annual reporting of national statistical offices, the 2017 report consists of two parts, the first part, except for the introduction describing statistical areas briefly, contains a presentation of those surveys where improvements have been made. For example. improving methodology, revision, introducing new or modifying existing research to comply with national or European standards. In this sense, in the report itself, we have 6 areas that are covered this time, from where we look at demographics and social statistics through macroeconomic statistics and business statistics and statistics on agriculture, forestry, fisheries, statistics on several areas and ultimately support the statistical output. In addition, there is a demonstration of the results of the projects or development activities carried out in 2017 to which the report relates. The second part of the report shall contain a review table with a list of all planned activities in statistical areas including confirmation of each survey or a brief explanation in the event that the survey has not been carried out in full or in accordance with the definition of the deadlines set out in the annual implementation plan. As already mentioned, DZSS as the main institution or distributor and coordinator of official statistics under the Law on official statistics and statistical activities programmes, with defined and other holders of official statistics, is, in this case, the Croatian Agency for Environment and Nature, the Croatian Regulatory Agency for Network Activities, CNB, HZJZ, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb, responsible for official statistics’ activities, this report and the annual implementation plan of statistical activities for 2017 covered a total of 281 statistical activities. Looking at the type of research, 167 research was based on direct data collection, 69 based on administrative data sources, 45 development activities. So of these total 281 planned... In 2018, the implementation of 47 statistical activities of other carriers was planned, or when we look to HZJZ 20, CNB 13, Ministry of Finance 11 and other 3, while the DZS itself planned to carry out 234 statistical activities and conducted 231 and only 3, respectively, as planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These three that have not been conducted have been surveyed on labour costs, an annual survey on employment and wages and methodologies and the calculation of the evaluation of long-term assets of the Republic of Croatia. This survey is carried out in multi-annual dynamics and of course continues to be carried out and what I mentioned is already included in the annual statistical implementation plan for 2018. Otherwise for the implementation of statistical activities in 2017 The State Statistics Institute planned 97.2m kunas spent 86.3m kuna, an index of 88.9% compared to the year before. As regards the financing of other projects in terms of EU projects, they are financed from EU funds, EU funds or the European Social Fund and other refunds, they totalled 9.4 million kuna in 2017. That's it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101269	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101270	Thank you Vice-President, Your Honor, I have only one question, namely, we know that the census is a huge and expensive project and throughout history it is a rule that every 10 years and every 10 years in the Republic of Croatia, some countries like Canada think they have a slightly shorter deadline of 5 years. Given that information or information technology is developing, given all available new, new ways of covering the list, do you think that in the future it can be reduced to another shorter deadline because we are daily exposed to the great departure of citizens of this country to other countries, and in the end these data are important to us because of the adoption of fair laws, one of these laws is also a law which is intended to be introduced and this is a property tax, I think that these data could be useful to us but every 10 years today (not) is a very long period. Thank you very much. - I don't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101271	Answer of the Honored Secretary of State
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101272	Thank you very much for asking the honourable Mr. Representative. Of course, preparations for the census are already ongoing, they are also contained in this report, the very way of implementation that was in a way that people walked all over the Republic and filled out questionnaires wanted to be informed, as I mentioned in the introduction, that number of 11 million pages of reports they had at the annual level now shrinked to 200 thousand, so everything passed through the information. Our goal and our desire to do this already in this list in 2021, in this very sense, like pills, is to fill in such questionnaires and to achieve what Estonia has achieved in its part, means to inform the entire state in some way in the future that there will be no need to make a census at all, but we will know from the database from the meaning of the queens born or dead exactly what our residents are and their number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101273	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101274	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm interested in one thing from your report that's when we talk about human resources or human resources. Namely, as stated here in your Report in accordance with Chapter 18, we were obliged to increase our capacity when we join the EU, we then merged all the county administrations and got about 200, a little less new employees. And now I'm looking at something that's less the same for all the ministries and state bodies. We have an indicative number of necessary civil servants and tenants, therefore, some systematization that says that it is systematized in your case 723 persons or perpetrators, and really employed in 514 now says this in the context of the question, is this systematization really necessary when almost a third of the people are not working and everything is obviously working and again how it is compared to our obligations that we said we still employ 90 people because we have now come to retail 100 people less than we had when we had to hire 90 more people because of the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101275	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected Secretary of State Zrinisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101276	Thank you very much for your question. So, as you yourself know the systematicisation and the actual number of people in general is not always one-on-one, it is always planned on the basis of future activities that a service will carry out, in this case a fellow director mentions that, this is that the number of systematiced officials based on estimates in relation to other Member States and the activities that await us. Of course, it's not good given this statistic that the last 10 years have not been held back, but 100 people are less, which means they're going to have to work on that part, which is why one of these activities that I mentioned and transferred in 2018 could not be completed because of human factors. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101277	Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the respected representative Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101278	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State Zrinasic, Director Kristoff, Honored colleagues and colleagues. First of all, thank the Secretary of State for the very content report, and at the very beginning, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives Club will support the report in question, which is very comprehensive and we hold that such statistics and research are needed, quality and good. Here, in the opening statement, we heard that the annual implementation plan planned to implement a total of 281 statistical activities where the State Statistics Office as the main institution, coordinator and disseminator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia regularly carried out the largest number of surveys and planned to carry out 234 statistical activities, i.e. the same number of activities as the previous 2016, while a total of 231 activities were successfully carried out. Analyzing from the perspective of the entire statistical system of the Republic of Croatia, the number of planned statistical activities was reduced from 292 in 2016 to 281 activities in 2017, of which 276 activities were carried out. The derogation in the implementation of the overall financial plan, which is 88% of the total planned funding, concerns most of the projects financed from EU funds, mainly planned material expenditures. What should certainly be pointed out is that due to the lack of resources, the State Statistics Institute did not carry out several statistical activities in 2017. Three, more specifically. However, it is included in the annual implementation statistical activities and their implementation planned in accordance with the defined deadlines. The following should be taken into account both long-term and increasingly insufficient... long-term unsustainable and become a limiting factor in meeting the commitments undertaken by the EU's Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, in active participation in the European statistical system, taking into account the fact that more and more demands are being made before the European and Croatian statistical systems, through the extension of existing obligations arising from the EU legal framework in the field of official statistics. Following everything mentioned as I said at the outset, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the report in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101279	Thank you very much. Next, we're now moving on to individual debates, there should be a colleague of Ivan Pernar, he's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected colleague of Gordan Maras, gone. He's losing his right to speak. I will then conclude the debate on this point and we will vote when the conditions are met, probably tomorrow about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101280	Reports on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2017, the applicant of the Report is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion. The report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in 2017. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 76 FOR and 1 FOR COUNTRY, and 1 against the vote, have concluded that it was proposed by the parent parliamentary committee. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Please calm down so we can keep working. It's up to you: - Proposal for a decision to set up the Agrokor Research Commission. Proposers shall be 16 MPs and representatives under Article. The 5th and 6th laws on investigative committees. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to further explain the proposal, on behalf of the promoter, the respected colleague, Nikola Grmoy, will speak, please. ... What did you say? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101282	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. You are presented with a proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Agrokor Investigation Commission. Before presenting the important elements of the proposal in short lines, I would like, in particular, to make the public sense of timing, Mr. Gordan Jandroković, president of the Croatian Parliament, who obviously recognized not only the importance of this topic, but also the moment to put this proposal to the debate in this House. The also obvious outstanding sense of timing and the unequivocally elevated donor urge of Hanza Media's company, supported former Deputy Prime Minister Martine Dalic's memoirs and donated today, to us and to all the Croatian public, in Mrs Dalic's unnamed vision of the part of the topics related to the proposal for a decision. Speaking of timing, it is important to stress that this debate is happening at the moment when the practical issue of the day of handover of Ivica Todorovic is due to the trial in the Republic of Croatia, which is much more important than just a few days of handling the power of the religious settlement in the process of the extraordinary administration over the Agrokor concert. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these few introductory sentences are just a small reminder of the successive circumstances in which this debate takes place. Speaking here on behalf of the promoter, there is no intention of going further or deeper into these circumstances, nor with everything that has happened around Agrokor until today. We already talked about it when we also had a proposal for the original decision but also all the discussions that were here in the Croatian Parliament. Of course, I have no intention of talking about what we have witnessed and what we are witnessing now. We have also said this through statements today to the media, and it is, of course, related to the preparation, adoption and application of laws on the smoothing of extraordinary administrations in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. The reason for this is primarily the fact that the subject of today's debate, although it will probably be, is not Agrokor, but also the Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration. The topic of this debate today is limited to what makes the motion for a decision. The topic is therefore whether the Croatian Parliament will support the proposal for a decision and set up an investigative committee for Agrokor or not. All arguments for the establishment of an investigative committee are contained in the very proposal for a decision, i.e. in particular in the competences which, with the proposal, give to the investigating committee. So we propose that the investigative committee should investigate and determine, first all the circumstances that preceded the accession of the law on the procedure of the extraordinary administration in trading societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, including the financing of Agrokor from public elections, action, and the possible applicability of a concerted Agrokor, through the adoption of regulations or in any other way. Secondly, who is and when and how and why has made a decision on the model of solving problems in Agrokor? The third circumstances of the formation of a group that became known to the public as a borg group in the so-called "Borg". the hotmail affair and the role of state officials in it. Four, when that so-called. The borg group made the law, five, which of the state officials was familiar with the work of the borg group and whether or not in an unlawful way influenced the work of the draft law. Sixth, who's the author of the bill that was sent to the legislative procedure. We examine the circumstances of the election of restructuring advisers Alix Partners and its subcontractors, the eighth to examine the action of the extraordinary commissioners and his deputies in the extraordinary administration procedure. Ninth, examine the operation of the temporary and possible permanent retirement council in the extraordinary administration procedure, the tenth, to examine the circumstances of the conclusion of a contract on so-called “retirement” Roll up the loan and define its content and any other circumstances related to or from the impact on the preparation of the adoption and implementation of the law. As this was evident in the formulation of the proposal for a decision, it was careful and sought to define in the broadest possible way the responsibility of the future investigation committee. And thus enables, without any obstacle, full insight into all those circumstances leading to the creation of Agrokor, the way in which it operates and functioning in the social, political and economic system of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular all relevant circumstances relating to the preparation, adoption and application of the law on extraordinary administration. As I believe that no particular argument should be given to the importance of this proposal for a decision, it is my duty to point out that there is a public interest in the action of the proposed investigative committee because it is a concert, which is due to its activity, size and impact on the economy of the Republic of Croatia on the systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia. Also, legitimate business, the institution of the Republic of Croatia and individual state officials from the institutions of the Republic of Croatia and individual state officials have a major impact on the rule of law, the state of the economy and the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and publicly available information points to doubts as to how to conduct the extraordinary administration procedure in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of the extraordinary administration procedure over Agrokor d.d. and the conduct of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia related to Agrokor d.d. and the extraordinary administration procedure. In relation to the composition of the proposed Commission of Investigation, the proposal only means that it is made by 9 MPs and MPs and those who have already been members of each other's research committee on Agrokor whose work has ceased under circumstances that you all know well and therefore do not need to be particularly exposed here. The reasons for such a proposal are that it is a matter of extensive matter and essentially very short notice, so it is proposed for practical reasons to appoint representatives who are already part of the knowledge of this extensive matter in the Commission of Investigation. I do not think I should particularly point out that all possible amendments to the proposal for a decision in the section setting out the responsibility of the Research Commission as well as in the section of which the composition of the investigation committee is determined and which amendments can, of course, improve this proposal for a decision. In conclusion, I'm obliged to specify the following. First, as all the MPs who make up the Club of Representatives of MOST, I will use this time to say briefly that the Club of Representatives of the Most will, of course, support the adoption of this decision. And second, when we submitted this proposal, we were aware and of course we are aware of it and now that although we do not have any intention whatsoever to underestimate the representatives and representatives of the opposition, making or not making the proposed decision on the establishment of the Agrokor Research Commission depends primarily on the will and votes of the ruling majority. So colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority despite these statements that we could hear today, we expect you to support this motion for a decision with your votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101283	We have three replicas for the opening presentation of our colleagues. The first is the honorable colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101284	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. If we look at the title of the book of Mrs. Dalic, it is clear that she thinks that with the passing of lex Agrokor it has come to the end of the partner capitalism in Croatia. I can't agree with him. Ortac capitalism has gained new momentum with the passing of lex Agrokora. You just need to read a little bit, just a little bit to remember, see Knighthead, see Šavoric who represented the temporary management and her famous email address etc.. Fortunately, I am among those who are among the first if not the first to point out all the problems in the adoption of Lex Agrokor, who have repeatedly, but for a year and a half, also pointed to conflicts of interest. I fall among those who have reported Mr. Plenkovic's Prime Minister for this, but I have only one small problem here. I will vote for this decision, but I would like to hear from you what was the role of MOST in all this. Because not only do I know that you were very supportive of Lex Agrokor, but it was you who suggested Mr. Bricell for example as a counsellor in law-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101285	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101286	A fellow coat of arms, so the role of MOST is quite clear in this story. It's Martina Dalic and these ruling and this machine you're talking about that changed the story now. We are no longer the ones who knew everything, we are now the diletaries who came with their solutions, which means that we are not, as you claim, mentally supported that model, it was the model Martina Dalic that was implemented. After MOST's exit from the government, those people got their first payouts. And the roll-up loan you're talking about and the Knighthead Fund and all that stuff actually went through their culmination after we left the government. And that's why we should have left the government. But we don't run away from our responsibilities. So we were part of the government that was supposed to solve this problem. We had other solutions, these solutions didn't go through, we had other proposals from the coat of arms to the government commissioners, it was Mr. Samodol but then we were told that this man was dangerous to run this project because he would, because it was said that he would file criminal charges showing what our relationship was to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101287	Second replica, dear colleague Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101288	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Grumo, you are also the last time with a change and a decision on the electoral commission, and now you have said that the President of the Parliament has chosen timing which is incorrect because of the public because you know that all the clubs of the representatives also receive a schedule a week before the session itself or the agenda of the points. And you're saying that neither the topic is Agrokor, nor the Lex Agrokor, but that it's actually 11 points that are in the motion of your decision. However, in all the 11 points you listed are actually directly attached to your colleague, Boza Petrova, while he was president of the Croatian Parliament. Well, didn't you strategically decide that there is no Lord Petrov present at this session today and that he can't discuss this. Why isn't he here for this debate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101289	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101290	Mr. Bozo Petrov is in the Croatian Parliament at meetings, I expect him to show up here, so he comes after the meetings. And as for everything and the role means God of Petrov, we don't run away from that role. We didn't want to be offended by a young man who, after leaving the government, talks about what was going on but we wanted to solve this crisis through the institutions of this country. And the first witness I personally proposed to the Agrokor Commission is Bozo Petrov. So we're not running away from anything and you're twice, and this is no coincidence that today the President of the Parliament put this point in place, because this is one elaborate media political operation that aims to conclude the story of Agrokor, we don't run away from that story, we were part of it, but obviously this click that met yesterday, these comrades who showed us who the government of Croatia, we didn't answer, and that's why we had to be expelled from the government. And I guess everyone in Croatia knows that today. That's what you know about a good colleague... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101291	Thank you. Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101292	Thank you, Mr. President. You said that the representatives of the ruling majority depended on whether this commission will be established, and I am convinced that it will be established because obviously after yesterday's media advances by their leaders that they are very concerned about the truth coming out because now that all the actors of this story have gathered yesterday, and Mr Škegro and Ramljak and Šavoric and all of them together at the promotion of Mrs Dalic's book, and the Prime Minister with almost all of the Government, I think that at least that's how we get the impression, that we have been wrong all along and that the question of who is now more crazy and who was right and who represented the real thing, and by them we were obviously wrong, and therefore I think that this commission is very much in the interest that this committee is being established and that through the work of the committee may convince us, or most important Croatian public, that we are all crazy and that we are all of which I think that they are not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101293	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101294	Well, fellow Djujic, that's how it should be, but unfortunately, it seems from the statements we could hear today, that's not how it's going to be. So they convince us that a great job has been done, that there is no stain, although President Jandrokovic says otherwise, he says that this is not a black-and-white story and that a shadow has been thrown into this process, and I had the chance to hear his statement now, so he probably wasn't at the promotion of this book yesterday, so it looks like they don't agree on it either, and that maybe that's why he won't vote this decision. But the truth is that you personally and here, the president of your side, you have severely criticized these things, and after that, that he had to leave both Mr. Ramljak and the Deputy Prime Minister and, besides, the president of your party has been saddened by Mr. Ramljak for bringing these things out, these are facts and from that the ruling cannot escape and have responded to these attacks from the opposition to the writing of the media by changing those two people, and now everything seems to be fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101295	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the replicas so we're going to have a debate, the first is the SDP's Club of Representatives and Honorable counterpart Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101296	... Today there is a continuation of this saga of concealing the withdrawal of money from Agrokor and unfortunately today in front of this pay phone I can freely say that we were right. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We were right when we warned that the law was written behind closed doors. We were right when we warned that it was written after secret meetings in the government. We were right when the consultation on the law itself was thrown out everyone who could testify later on and we were right when we claimed that later based on that law a group of so-called. The Borg group later charged extensively through advisory services. Every day, there's more and more evidence of that. And yesterday, in a sponsored ironing of the image of former Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic, today's writer who intended to present a book and this criminal-fantastic genre, tried to gather the entire group of Borg at a celebration where they actually tried to legalise their status and iron out the image in public by dividing the book into 45 000 copies in a way that they tried to convince people that everything they did was right and that what they were pulling out the money was simply not true but the public saw it, people know that every day and that's something that they couldn't escape. What is quite certain is that this celebration of the Borg group, cost Croatia 27 years of stagnation, there we had the opportunity yesterday to see a variety of characters, from those who participated in criminal conversion and privatisation to those main actors who were directly involved in this process of extracting money from Agrokor. What happened? They filled their pockets, they got rich and the workers in Konzum still work for 2900. And that's the bottom line, that's the sad truth about the whole process. the restructuring of Agrokor. Who about? Dudes about friendly capitalism. The last e-mails that came out a week ago and the ones that came out today actually confirm that there was a direct match on the scene, adapting the law so that by a vulture's fund, the bonds that were worth 20 could be charged by 100, so who wouldn't want a job like that, who wouldn't want to do business like that? And that's what made it possible for people to get rich and take Agrokor. What is extremely important to say and to remind that, according to Croatian laws, trading privileged information and guessing is a criminal offence. The only person who does not seem to understand it in Croatia is the state's chief attorney who does nothing on this issue, he has not even honored to question the secret meeting actors in the government, he has not been able to invite Petrov or Plenkovic or Bozinovic to an informed conversation. It has not been authorised to inform itself of the events for which there is evidence through the correspondence of e-mails that a particular group and group have been favored. And it's actually a real question why he wasn't at the presentation of the new writer Martina Dalic's book yesterday and the question for him, is it always up to date whether he's the chief state attorney of HDZ or the chief state attorney of the Republic of Croatia? What is clear is that Plenkovic, Prime Minister Plenkovic, has replaced Martin Dalic and Ramljak precisely because of the withdrawal of money for advisory services. And not only that, he even invited counselors to return the money. If it's not an act of recognition, I don't know what it is. Is it possible that that part was forgotten somewhere, whether the state's chief attorney missed mentioning what this is about, that's what the key question is, and that every day more evidence is coming, now it's quite clear why the State's Attorney had to be removed from Dinko Cwitan. Dinko Cvitan, who is now walking three bodyguards who are protecting, who received threatening messages from Medjugorje from different locations in Croatia, Dinko Cvitan who left without a letter of explanation to get a new chief state attorney. I'll remind the ruling, that you can't act like this is the state you run as a cartel organization, you can't do that. I would remind you that Plenkovic and HDZ have removed Dinko Cvitan from the post of chief state attorney, have removed Dalia Oreshkovic from the post of head of the Committee for Conflict of Interest, now you are also trying to remove the investigative commission on Agrokor, directly stifling the truth, my question is why do you mind the truth? Why do you bother if you're clean? If you have cheeks? If it's all right to determine the facts of this case, why does it bother you? Why don't you want an investigative committee? Why don't you want an investigation committee that's about to deal with the Borg group because the Borg group isn't currently under investigation, right, if I'm not mistaken? All the criminal charges filed by the Living Wall were rejected, so if the truth bothers you, why do you do it, why do you do it to Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101297	Second debate, Club of HDZ Representatives, esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101298	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The Croatian Parliament here at the plenary session seven times discusses Agrokor or better, seven times the agenda point is dedicated to Agrokor without saying that in a number of other debates there was a law on extraordinary administration and all aspects of the crisis in Agrokor. For the first time, we discussed this when we were faced with a major crisis in Agrokor and when the government acted in accordance with the Constitution, making sure that it was a company of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia and proposed a Law on the procedure of an extraordinary administration in commercial societies of systemic importance. All 20 days after the law was passed here in the Parliament, we had the opportunity to discuss Agrokor again and on the basis of a request to raise the issue of trust with Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance. The third time in the Assembly we discussed all aspects of the crisis in Agrokor and the events around Agrokor on 12 July last year when we discussed and decided on the establishment of the Investigation Commission for Agrokor the fact that, at that time, as the ruling majority or better said as HDZ, we accepted and made a decision on the Research Commission, it says that under the law, we are prepared to support the establishment of an investigative commission that would deal with all aspects of the crisis in Agrokor, which was precisely the case when we discussed this decision and later adopted it in October of last year. We discussed the fourth time on the agenda of November 11th last year when the proposal to launch a trust issue to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where, in the most part, this request, or a proposal to launch trust, referred to all the circumstances that occurred in the Agrokora system. We discussed six times when trust was initiated by then Deputy Prime Minister Martini Dalic on April 12th this year. We discussed this seven times on 16 May this year when we did not accept the decision of amendments and additions to the establishment of the Investigation Commission, and this is now the seventh time that we have discussed it. So, in a few, in seven times here in the Parliament we tried, each of us on his own to explain all the circumstances that led to the writing of the Emergency Administration Act and then the implementation of that law, of its implementation. I will introduce that the government was obliged to act at the moment when the Agrokor crisis threatened to spill over to the entire Croatian economic and financial system by law. I would remind all of us that it was a time when Agrokor was in a blockade, when he was blocked with 3 billion kunas, when he threatened to collapse the system that had 70 companies, about 30,000 employees in Croatia alone, even so much in the Agrokora companies in the region, when it threatened to collapse 150 and 70 related companies in which 150 000 employees worked, and that is the company whose income represents around 11% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. And then the government reacted and wrote this law that the Constitutional Court confirmed did not react, that it did not pass that law to act against the constitution. Therefore, we have said this many times here, and I think the law itself has shown that it has been an impeccable intervention of the Croatian government in the economy since the 1990s. That it is thus a testimony to the fact that, without going to a single June cost for taxpayers and that for the state budget, 60 thousand jobs were preserved in the system itself, that micro-small and micro-supply suppliers were fully calmed, so all those who asked Agrokor for more, up to 5 million and 200 thousand kunas were fully settled, that large suppliers were calmed at this point over 60% and, according to the proposal for restructuring, Agrokor would be almost 80% settled. And that with that fact, the law which had not been passed could have led to the breakdown of the Croatian economy, stopped the breakdown, stopped the crisis and allowed the company to continue its business, to keep all employees employed and thus to calm down and stabilise the situation in the concert itself. What is particularly important to point out for this law is that this law has passed the verification of both the Croatian Commercial Court and the High Court of Commerce, that it has passed the control and supervision of the Croatian Constitutional Court, that the High Court of England and Wales accepted it as a law which, in the sense of legislation, carries out the insolvency procedure, that it was also accepted by the Swiss court, that at the end of August this year a similar decision was taken by the court in New York for the United States, that the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council included the law in the list of national laws recognised as insolvency proceedings. So why do I want to say all this intro? I would like to say and show how successful this law has been passed, that the law passed the test and supervision of the extremely well-known, respected European states that have a very rich tradition of justice and justice and justice, and that it thus pointed out that the Government has done the right thing both in accordance with the Constitution and in accordance with the law when it started to pass this law. On the other hand, the SDP offered all that time solutions that were first taken from taking pictures with the head of the acid cabbage, then proposing the bankruptcy law. It has been said here in this assembly that the law is bad, that there are two laws on Croatian, two laws on insolvency, the law on bankruptcy and the law on pre-fashion settlement that can resolve the issue of Agrokor, it just needs to be changed a little bit. Then SDP sent the law to assess constitutionality, then the SDP announced on its press never the amendments to the law here at the Croatian Parliament offering certain changes that should improve the text of the law. As opposed to accepting and proposing investigative committees, we have not even received this amendment to the Law on Extraordinary Administration and Trade Companies of Systemic importance, which would in any way improve the way that the SDP has spoken the proposal for this law. Thus, as the opposition has gone about all possible activities and how to respond to the biggest challenge, any government since the creation of an independent Republic until today when we talk about the economy, we have written in the ruling majority a law which has in the best possible way responded to this great challenge, which is the resolution of the crisis in the largest company in Croatia. The restructuring of Agrokor is one of the biggest restructurings in Europe and the world in recent years, so we have shown that as a country we can deal with such a great challenge. And finally, what's no less important, which is actually the most important thing. During the implementation of the Emergency Administration Act, the company was normally in business, wages were received, suppliers were paid, and parallel with it a settlement was made which was, in fact, the fundamental objective of this law. This settlement, as you know, was adopted on July 4th at the congregation of all believers where over 80% of the believers supported such a solution. Therefore, those who are most interested in this are believers whose money was not at any time in the last 18 months questioned how and how their money was spent. This process did not spend taxpayers' money, no money was spent on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but was solely about the money of the creditors most interested in it. At one point, they begged the opposition not to help them in the way it helps them because the whole process could put them at risk. The trade unions have stood up against the opposition's demands to question how and how advisers bring and bring this deal to an end in the making of a settlement. So when we want to send a message here to protect our money, we have to answer no, they're the ones who protect their money, the believers protect their money, and that must be clear to you. If they were aware of sacrificing 1.1% of their total claims to Agrokor to save, some 100%, some 60% and some 50% of their money. It bothers you gentlemen that 1% went to those who made it possible to keep some small suppliers and micro suppliers 100%, their claims, do you mind? Do you mind if the workers stayed to work in Agrokor, Konzum, in Jamnica and other companies do you mind? And what they have continued to do is not your merit, it is the merit of this law, and it is the merit of those who have prepared a settlement for all in this process to be satisfied and calmed that it is unimaginable for Europe's insolvent affairs. An analysis has been made of how many bankruptcy procedures suppliers, which in this case, in the case of Agrokor, are generally our agricultural producers and small OPGs that are fully settled. If it were to go according to the bankruptcy procedure proposed by the SDP, we would only settle 4% because the High Commercial Court in Croatia carried out an analysis of all bankruptcy proceedings in Croatia. And he found that through bankruptcy, those who were last in the billing chain, which are suppliers, are only 4%. And in this law that you have been contesting since the first day, against which you have been, they have managed 100%, and if anyone has been in favour of this law, then they have exclusively contributed to Croatian suppliers, Croatian companies and, most of all, they have lost or are least compensated in this procedure by bankers and financial institutions. In this procedure, out of 5.7 billion kuna, the total debt of Agrokor, i.e. the claim of creditors 2.7 has been paid by now and of 3 billion unpaid, over 2 points 2 billion and 200 million kuna will never be charged by the banks, will never be charged by the banks or by the funds often called upon in this House. So, I was going to say that the government... , HDZ with all coalition partners, this government passed a law that, in an exceptional way, preserved and preserved the Croatian economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's what I'm gonna end up with, and that's what I'm saying. Through an affair called a hotmailafer, a shadow was thrown into the process, and we were talking about it at the HDZ Representatives' Club. And now I'm gonna say, I'm sorry it happened. And that is why the resignation was given by the first extraordinary commissioner and the biggest sacrifice that a politician could bear is the resignation she gave and whose resignation was accepted by the Prime Minister, who was given by Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic. Because the fact that at a certain point, by an extraordinary commissioner, the elected chief adviser was the subcontractor of the company where the same extraordinary commissioner worked before he became an extraordinary commissioner, according to us in HDZ, was a shadow of this process and we are not running away from it. But that fact cannot in any way dim the success of this project called the Emergency Administration Act. So that's what we're standing on. On the other hand, there were requests and brought by the Living Wall and a criminal application was filed from Free Croatia that the DORH was manifested and said there was no place of criminal responsibility. Therefore, given that this case is subject to judicial proceedings for the financial circumstances which led to the adoption of the Emergency Administration Act, it is brought to the County Court in Zagreb, in accordance with Article 4. The law on investigative committees cannot be established by the commission or, if it is established, we at the HDZ Club will not support such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101299	Let's move on. Now it's the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101300	Dear President of the Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Here is the debate on the establishment of the Agrokor Investigation Commission. It's convenient for you to have the comedy to say the same thing from the beginning to the end. It is convenient for you to have a committee to decide the law and the investigation committee from the beginning to the end, and to point out some controversial moments and controversial details. After Mr Bacic spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, I was convinced that I would conclude that we want an investigative committee, yes, we want this magnificent success to finally be seen through the investigative committee who is what and to end this story and not have a 7th, 8th or 9th follow-up. I've been thinking a lot about how to lead this debate, whether it's serious or maybe a little different. Yesterday, I think it was a great time-out and it was a great time-out after the book. And that it was a great hit to see who was at the book presentation. It's the only title in that book. The title should be “Triumf of Ortac Capitalism” and then everything would be fine. How triumphant ortacic capitalism did what was right. And I think it is deserved for this House to propose a new national holiday on October 29th of the Day of Ortac Capitalism in the Croats. And then we closed the story, and we know what it's about. And it's good that he's behind it and that, therefore, I expected the ruling to say enough, so I can't go seven or eight more times, so you have no idea what you're talking about, let's get this investigative committee and let's see who, and let's finish the story. But obviously that's not how it's gonna be. There are three things that are controversial to us, and those three things have been controversial to us at the very beginning, and they'll be controversial to us all the time. The first thing is the way the law was passed. So we understand that it was a problem, we understand that it had to be solved immediately, we understand that there was no time, we understand that there were experts who knew a lot about it and we understand that it was this short period, but I won't understand why neither the Prime Minister nor the Vice President of the Government came out and said that, we had a short time, we had to do something, we decided on this model, we hired you and we think that's the best thing. That's what no one wants to say today. That's the first thing. The other thing is the subject of bargaining. Is it true that this law was passed to suit one group, whether it was intended, so all these e-mails that did leave doubt. In one small country after all the e-mails we've had the opportunity to see would fly feathers all over the place and we've got a triumph of Ortac capitalism. And the third topic is whether that law is for certain. Has this state decided, or government in this country, to be a mother and a stepmother? Do I, too, have to ask the question here, is it really a deliberate law in a way that only applies to Agrokor and that it's not worth the Oil or any other company in which the state has property because in Agrokor we know it doesn't have property? Equally so let's remind ourselves, which is the president from one hill and the diameter from another hill ordered. They were ordering, the participants of the borg group returned the money. And they forgot, if they forgot on purpose, if they forgot by accident. Has something changed in the meantime? Otherwise, that book is printed in 45 thousand copies, today we got it with a daily newspaper, and it actually calls for the public to be seen on which page it is. I've really had this comedy since the beginning when I'm talking about it, we're talking about a new model of social capitalism. We at the Voice Club have been talking about what's bothering us and what's not good and we're not on any page. books. What exactly gives us comedity to evaluate the book? But indeed, without precedent in Croatian politics, yesterday we were some directly, and some through media, participants, the biggest rehabilitation in the history of the newer Croatian state. And I have to wonder what that's for? Apparently, there's an opportunity to see and hear, sorry why the Deputy Prime Minister should have left because she did a great job, so she's expecting a return or... It's just a matter of duty, of which place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, the media space is always full of how many Mr. Milan Bandic's club has representatives who will be the government's reconstruction. It would be very important for us at the GLAS Club, if this investigative commission were to be established and we finally didn't have an extension of 8 or 9 or 10, but most hands in this assembly will certainly decide on the trail of this, so we will have more, but on the trail of this rounding with Mr Milan Bandic, on the trail of what, in fact, the model of partner capitalism shows to be a failure and in fact is a triumph, it wouldn't surprise me, that, in time, we get a proposal from the Milan Bandic Club, that Mrs. Martin Dalic, be a minister, given her writing opportunities, a single Ministry of Science and Education, it would be great, here to try it here, so here, I expect after this great return and... through the book of three ortacical capitalism, to be seen as a new minister, and indeed, it can be quite serious and modern to rule as it did when it was in another vault. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We at the GLASs Club and HSU will certainly vote for an investigative commission because we think it can end this saga, to see really who is there who he did what he did and worked for, that individual actors are not wanted on certain pages of the book but to see what the word is and to finish that story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101301	Now it is the Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101302	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues today is our topic again, Agrokor, and there will be a topic for a long time. It all began that I remember there somewhere in November 2016 there was a whisper from Jamnica, some problems being monitored, something behind the hill rolling, and then a little bit, a week by week, a month by month, there was a catastrophic crisis like the economists say hasn't been seen since the war. Some of us knew before all of us, before the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, before we were the representatives of the voters, which is how it works, some of them knew from February they had privileged information, and some only found out when the transfer called us over to Banska to complete the meeting and when he swore before all the clubs in the Croatian Parliament that only if the Constitution, laws and the market did not make their own, then they would go to this special law, the Law on Extra-Government, companies of systemic importance for the Republic. Of course, he immediately broke his promise in the movement lane, the National Journal, I think, on the same day, the law was published after it was voted in the Croatian Parliament. Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic are a child of HDZ and one of the first major acquisitions, they would say the first million is an acquisition... Zadar, which made it possible for Mr. Stjepan Tudjman, said Mr. Stier the Great Croat of the Todorovic family, then favored him through all these years in a number of ways, I said one three times here that the County of Zagreb had abolished and returned to the map as Zagreb County, so that he could take the Jamnica, then that credit from the crafts' cooperative and skip one part of it, the benefits, incentives, loans, payments, that he was a favorite of inspection, of all those things with I don't know, HBOR HPB-op is back on 2016 and today 2018 to cover capitalism or to a few, or some would say, congenital capitalism is found in literature or clientelistic capitalism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yesterday, I said that earlier today at the time of the party, the defiled Croatian National, the National University Library, there was an orgy of all those who wanted to divide this society and the state, not those who wanted to save it. Who are the biggest buddies? Which is the definition of partner capitalism in the first place. It's an incestuous scheme of politics on the one hand and business, so business people on the other. So who's the biggest dudes in the last few years? Yes Todorovic has been there for the last decades and many others are here, who hardly have anything to gain in business if they are not connected to one or the other party and that in business with the state or units of local and regional self-government they have not done their own empires, but the last few years before only 17 and 18 the biggest comrades in Croatia are here. Here we go, Beverig Alistar, Branimir Bricell, Herman Greef, and now they're all in line. Imagine, through them, a title that speaks against partner capitalism, and in the background of the text the greatest comrades. Would Mr. Rabjak and Mr. Matic of Teksilmenjment who had been there for some small wages, a company that had had poor incomes, would they have acquired what they had acquired in two years, would they have received these fabulous payments if it hadn't been for policy and business, had they not had friends in politics, Mr. Marić, Minister Dalic, would Mr. Šavoric have been where he was if he hadn't had a friend of Mr. Plenkovic and the people he had with him. Would Intercapital as a brokerage firm be the only or one of the few who, during that period, had profits or were in plus, and had, in its portfolio, the Agrokor stock? Of course you wouldn't, by who exactly are the biggest buddies? Well, it's the kind of guys who fight dudes and dude capitalism. And yesterday he was a triumph of social capitalism in the Republic of Croatia and he continues to march, still leaking compensation from Agrokor. Well, he's not even here to argue about this commission. I'm Lex Agrokor. We were at first diverged in the way we should approach the crisis in Agrokor, we want to go through the bankruptcy law, we want to go over the bankruptcy deal, if we're going to go over some Lex specialis. What has happened has happened, and for a long time we will look at the legal and all other consequences of Agrokor. I wouldn't say that the battle is still won, we'll only know that when one step is made, but what's certainly here is controversial, why? Why did the same people and secretly write the law and the same people chosen as counselors and the same people later received subconsultant jobs. If it were three different groups of people, if everything had been done by law, maybe it wouldn't have, there wouldn't have been so much criticism and sedition, but no, they were the same people. And the State Attorney's Office says, on the basis of our criminal charges, no, there are no arguments that there are links between the first, second, third groups, so it's kind of random, although it's clear to everyone that there are the same names, and in the meantime there's still a handful of other evidence that connects that it was all designed, planned and that there's a causal link. If everything was okay, then why was it said out of the prime minister's mouth and the president to return the money? Why is that said, if everything was okay, if everything was both legal and moral? Why were we talking, and we know from the e-mails, we're going to meet there and there, the least people will see us, if everything was okay and transparent? Because it's not. There was a abuse of position, a systematic lie about writing the law, covering it up, covering it up, from Minister Dalic for months and months we had to draw the truth about how and how the law was written, and why? Because it's a cover-up, it's a well-planned operation, because it's a cover-up and the DORH is completely wrong, so what difference does it make if it's non-transparent, that's the second main thesis. Well, it does matter that some of them had information and shares in time, and others didn't have that information and they had shares, and because of this privileged information, some of them got huge money, and some of them lost everything. Just ask the former shareholders of Agrokor's companies how much their shares are worth today. It's a cover-up situation today, and we've sent a request to the government to give us, therefore, records of who's been entering the government building, the government in all possible ways obstructing, stalling with that data, even refusing to receive mail. Look out, from the Commissioner's office he comes to Mark's square postman or courier, the same day, within a few minutes he comes here giving a shipment to us and to the government. We receive immediately, but the government doesn't, the government only after 7-10 days. It simply refuses to receive mail, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Not some petty fraud out there, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia refuses to receive mail. He's buying himself time. As for the commission that had a short life span, it did several very good and useful things, however, not nearly as close as it needed. Mr. Rohatinski admitted that he was in partner, in partnership with Mr. Kujundzic, Maric and others in time to position themselves on the political scene, the attempt failed and who knows what else would have revealed that the commission had taken place and that all the papers you had ordered had arrived while at least I was there. What should certainly be said here is that we, of course, will support this Investigation Commission, and the establishment of the Investigation Commission, the ruling majority led by the HDZ in its own way interpreted the Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions, that, like that phrase, that clause, the court procedure means when, therefore, it is legally confirmed by the investigation, and we have interpreted it in a way that, when the indictment is legally confirmed. I've got three of our criminal charges here. The last one was just a few days ago, we haven't gotten a response from the DORH yet, of course we haven't yet. It is simply amazing that the Croatian State Attorney's Office does not see or want to see, of course, it is at least clear that it does not want to see everything that has happened here. They say, there is no link between this group that wrote, this one until 12.4. and this one that was counselling when Ramljak chose the 12.4., but there is no link between the two groups, and in testimony to UskoK's what Ramljak says? Ramljak says I'll be in charge of Prime Minister Plenkovic, but only if you give me those people who wrote the law. Only if you give me those first group people and if I make another one with them, then I'll be the Commissioner. And that's what's in his testimony. However, the State Attorney's Office does not see any relationship between the first and the second groups. And between the second and third groups, between that group of counselors and Ramljak and those who are 25. 4. get jobs also do not see any link although every day a new information leaks, e-mails, witness testimonies, etc. So let's say, it's interesting that the contracts were made from, right from the beginning of 10. The 4th are on the payroll with those fabulous amounts. In addition, the law was so made, set up in fact that Ramljak had all the power, all the power, he could choose for himself who would be the chief consultant and who would be the subconsultant. And it is clearly seen from a testimony from the very law that is so concluded that it happens. So of all the companies in the world Ramljak chose 5, his Alix and 4 others, and for each of those 4 he had a flaw why he couldn't do that. So, as Commissioner, I have a job to find the chief consultant, and of all the world, I choose the 5, the one that fits me with which I have a deal and another 4 for which there are flaws to be eliminated. This is seen from the testimony at the end of the day, who was reading, they were published in public. However, there is nothing controversial about the State's Attorney's Office, and there is no argument that it could have been influenced, etc. It doesn't matter, the truth will come out, eventually it'll come out. It's just a small part of everything we've put together in our new criminal report. I have to say, I hope this time a criminal report comes into the hands of someone more honest and capable, that out of even 30 witnesses and these maybe 100 partners here, they're not going to question 4. Come on, at least 10 or 15. They examine witnesses, and they may be of the least importance or some middle importance that they didn't know all over the place, and then they say there's no evidence that this is how it happened. Well, of course, when you didn't turn every stone, you turned it around, maybe every twenty. Of course, there is nothing to conclude and draw conclusions even if you would like to bring it. Finally, I would like to say that this is, therefore, a well-organised, well-designed venture, an operation of partner capitalism with which people from politics, from high policy, have made it possible for their friends, best friends, relatives, former business partners who have known each other since Questus Škegrino from the attempt to privatise Croatia and the privatise, respectively, from the case of INA - MOL and replacements for HEP shares from December 2016. So all that time we can track that same team plus a minus a certain member. They knew well about each other, they waited for their chance to come and they watered at the source. However, only the Agrokors managed to do so. As far as Mr. Plenkovic is concerned, he's his main partner. He's been caught lying multiple times, caught on transparency. That is why we have also submitted applications to the POSIU, the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest initiated by the proceedings. I generally have no confidence in Croatian institutions, especially after the ruling majority in the last year has made large roschas in these institutions. However, I have learned that if you are persistent, if you remind them of what is in the law, if you regularly call them and ask what is wrong with an object that they can do a good job here and there. So we'll keep doing it. It does not and will not be possible for as long as the political system is as it is, because it is just existing from that system and on that system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101303	We're going to the HNS Representatives' Club now. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101304	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. What to say now again with the topic that has really been the subject of all the topics of the last year and a half and more days than the same target of the same distance around. We have a proposal to set up a new commission, where I would just ask a few questions, perhaps more legal-normal or technical, where we in Article 4 of the Law make it clear that: "if a judicial procedure is launched...", we now know everything that means that it will end with the work of the Committee. So, the commission stopped working without being able to establish itself before the deadline of 6 months after it had finished. Obviously, it didn't end before, it stopped. So that's what we're talking about here, some nomotechnical or normative story, and then this article, since some of the questions are consistent with the previous Committee above all when we talk about the circumstances of "prejudicial accession" of the law. We had in the previous commission a point that spoke about which and how and how the process of preparation of Lex Agrokor, i.e. the Law on Extraordinary Administrations, was therefore quite similar. We also have here under point 11 and all the other circumstances regarding the adoption of the law, also here is who is when, how, why made the decision on the problem-solving model. So a lot of things are consistent with that right here in this proposal we've elaborated everything about just passing. And now that we're looking at what's the goal of this, what's the goal of getting, what would the citizens get from this whole thing? We will not talk about the employees, the workers of Agrokor, the very company procedure that has come to a high probability that it will end and legally continue to work on the very purpose of this law and I am deeply hoping for all of us here, for the pleasure of keeping both the workplace and the sustainability of production and the co-operation and all that would cause the failure of such a system. Some say an analysis should be made, there is no analysis in the world of economic or any other that can predict market movements or market movements to such security, to such a measure with such certainty. Otherwise, trading on stock exchanges would become a matter of mathematics, not speculation, not an assessment of how the market would react to bankruptcy at break-up, and perhaps it shouldn't, perhaps no one can say it's something too big, which no one can gamble especially with any fate of our citizens, not 100 thousand of our fellow citizens. We know that we at the HNS were constructive in making that we thought maybe we should go some other way but we took this when it was done and said we were going to do as much as possible of what we had. We have nothing, we have neither participated nor been mentioned as much as I have seen in the book itself or in the adoption, nor beyond, but we have made it possible for that framework to be implemented in one political stability and I will only remind you that only the creditors have given their or her willingness to give consent to the issue of credit when political stability is ensured. So in translation, Agrokor would end up in bankruptcy. This law, as we know, has made it possible for exactly what it is to taste everything, to be financed by private money and by citizens and not by swearing, unfortunately we cannot say what the situation is now in Uljanik. I'd like today to talk about the Uljanic and the billions that will go there if someone remembered some companies from Slavonia that went bankrupt, people were out of a job. State-owned companies, which were no longer able to draw and finance money in order to protect the competition. These people don't work anymore. What do we do with them? Or is fashion industry not as important in Croatia as shipbuilding, why they are more special, they are all special. When we talk about the goal, as I said, I do not see here any other purpose but further political outsmarts, points, possibly a sort of removal of some responsibility by the promoters, where it is seen that we do not have anything to say to the public, and what someone was saying, came out in the media that it was known to us, although I and trust my colleagues Grumoja, as a member of the commission who is really hard, I have no reason to doubt at all that he knew anything more than what he was looking for answers in that commission and did his job with honor, I can also say methodically and with a level and scientific approach, but in particular his colleague did not tell him the way in which the law was passed, which people were involved, the two representatives, the ministry, the judiciary, the judiciary who gave their opinion to that law, then those questions were asked on the commission and by his colleagues that we absolutely didn't get the answers, and we knew that the same thing that the people had to know that the same thing. When we talk about advisors, 500 million kunas or how much already, how ugly does that sound, how ugly for each of us I guess here, for every citizen, what amount of money is that someone can even imagine? It doesn't matter what half of it is probably about the success of the settlement itself.../incomprehensible/... etc., and 100 million is a lot and of course the shadow that threw itself at that whole procedure wasn't good, and that's what we said right away. Political responsibility has already been paid by the former commissioner and former vice president, precisely because there was no criminal responsibility but that level of political responsibility someone had to bear and submitted it. When I look at the private company's side their opinion is most important to me, those whose money it is, are they satisfied/unsatisfactory, happy/unhappi, damaged/undamaged by the amount of the way and the people who did it whether this.../incomprehensible/... approach is good. Does the target justify the means? Does anyone with a private.../incomprehensible/... say who I want to work on something to keep mine or as much of my money to a private person who's being referred to it or some of the ones on the side that come. I'd probably say in private I'd like the best-quality people who know the most about it and I'm willing to pay them to save as much as I have. .../incomprehensible/... question, that it sounds ugly, ugly, and we're not Europe west yet, we're not America, no matter what it is about them and their money and what in the way they work, but we also have to respect their money and their decisions, otherwise it would be that they come and say someone tricked us someone took something out of our pocket and she's already another pair of gloves. When we have, I won't tell the devil's lawyers, but someone else who represents the god-awful interests of all the citizens who aren't in any way damaged then I doubt the intentions of all this. And in my view, I only see the intention of this detachment and further political bickering, and the HNS will not participate in it. Very clear and loudly, we have nothing to do with it either, we have no problem investigating everything, everyone and to establish responsibility and suspicion, but to instrumentalise the working bodies of this assembly with the political purpose of promotion or to say once again washing responsibility for me makes no sense, because I say once again I participated in this commission, many questions were raised there by some people who were there and knew the answers or did not know and they could know they could tell them their colleagues. And now that we're doing the same thing again, I don't know what purpose everything that's stated here is more or less relevant to the lawmaking process itself, but I'm saying, and the circumstances that preceded the accession and the making of this law, the financing of Agrokor, and we know that it's also the subject of the investigation, so we'd have to change this again and always intertwine with something that's in progress, and that's one of those formal reasons why and so on, but not just because we're being honest, not just for these formal reasons because it's overlapping, because we've already had one commission that didn't end, but it's just stopped here, and I don't see that until it's over and so on, we can't get any of the citizens to improve their lives, or anyone who's got a better job, or who's going to know better, who's going to do it. And that's what this whole story is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101305	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, Reformists and Independent Representatives, dear colleague Robert Jankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101306	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, if we stick to the metrics and don't look at the circumstances, the metrics say that we have before us a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee for Agrokor signed by, therefore, our 16 colleagues. I think that these 16 colleagues and all of us are standing here today, and we are sitting here clearly that by launching an investigation procedure against Ivica Todorovic and his suspects, therefore, when this procedure became effective on 20 November 2017, according to the Law on Investigation Commissions, we cannot establish this Committee today and of course our Club will be against this proposal. However, because of the public's interest which is not certain that they have read the proposal, I think it is important to point out that in 11 points which this investigative committee would like to investigate, that they are all contained in the investigation which, therefore, the County Court has previously confirmed, which is, therefore, open, a judicial procedure which is further under our laws dealing with this. Of these 11 points, 6 refers to the very circumstances of lawmaking, which in the Club we consider irrelevant because the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament. We could all change it, we could all suggest different options, we could all participate in the debate and propose concrete solutions. Those who wanted it were involved, whoever suggested it, whoever prepared it, we adopted it here in the Croatian Parliament. In line with that, we are both guilty and responsible for everything that has come out of him. In particular, we consider it necessary to refer to the fact that advisers who are probably the most irritated of the public, there is no doubt about how expensive it is, but according to those who understand it best, they claim that there are several people in Croatia who can deal with it, and all those partners who have come and have actually given their name, their reputations and their brand, claim that it costs so much. What mattered to us in this House a year and a half ago when we discussed the Agrokor Law, it was important, therefore, not to pay it out of the state budget. All we've seen so far is that 99% of all and total costs have been paid by the company itself, which means that all the headlines that I remind us of, and the esteemed viewership of 2017, read by the guys, save us Saint Ante, the trillions from the state budget will go to Agrokor, the children will pay us back, the 70 best companies will collapse, the Croatian economy will collapse, thanks to this Law did not happen. We didn't pay anything or almost nothing from the state budget, we made small suppliers in 100% ratios as here before me those who couldn't get it, of course in such procedures it's realistic that they don't get it all, it's just banks, so if we wanted to send a message that the most important ones, which are probably the immersion of Agrokor quite certainly caused their immersion, they settled 100%, and not least we kept almost all or all of the jobs in the Agrokor concert, here I am, as a baranja, especially important that it continued to function and Belje. So it's hard to actually say something new about the circumstances that brought us into this position. It is absolutely certain that the argument used by us who voted in confidence back in April 2018. Martini Dalic, that all these arguments are current today, however, it is important for the Croatian public to know, therefore, that one crime is being preceded, so one evil intention of law-makers should be formed long before, and in the Croatian Government programme, which we adopted in October 2016 and in the negotiations that preceded us none of us wanted to deal with Agrokor, so Agrokor is something that happened to us and no one could be prepared for it, no one could prepare themselves accordingly for all of this vow that some of my colleagues in front of me were saying. Accordingly, according to all of this, it is clear that we will all be interested in judicial epilogues, obviously or court proceedings, and then the epilogue following the arrival of Ivica Todorovic in Croatia, however, we should stress for all those who may not daily follow all around Agrokor that everything the Croatian Parliament has adopted has resulted in a settlement that has reached measurable, objective measurable and tangible results of the Croatian economy. The deal was confirmed some year ago by the Commercial Court, and about a week ago by the High Commercial Court and the High Commercial Court, and the law itself became part of the European acquis. Clearly, who remembers the events from early 2017 that circumstances dictated the pace, and that we had to bring something to save what we call a Croatian economy. Is this a round of haste, in this round of urgency if we put some of these details under the furnace whether or not they have made mistakes, it is certainly not excluded, but the fact remains that the big picture is good, and that instead of this Research Commission, the real epilogue will be where it is and the place, and these are Croatian courts. Our club, of course, will be against the establishment of this commission for the simple reason that would be contrary, so the Law on Investigation Commissions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101307	It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the HSS, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101308	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the HSS Club, I say that we will support a decision on the adoption of the Agrokor Investigation Commission, because we are primarily interested in all citizens in the Republic of Croatia the truth. Here, if we're in charge, as the president of the HDZ Club says, as an opposition, let the Commission still confirm that we're in charge, that you're right, and that this really isn't a triumph, it's a breakdown of partner capitalism. But we don't think we've come to the right truth and we need this commission. I will remind you that it wasn't all true that it was the main motive for bringing lex Agrokor, and that it wasn't true to those who participated in these processes the only motive, because to remind all of us that only after the pressure of international financial institutions went to solve the Agrokor case. Only after pressure from the public through the media, or pressure from the opposition. We know that financial institutions have found that the financial reports in Agrokor were faked, only then has the alarm started and started to resolve. Both our question and my question from this pay phone repeatedly was how it was possible for such a company to happen to Croatia, to get so hot, and we can even say that we were proud, and I personally had a Croatian company growing on the market in the Republic, buying companies in Slovenia, Serbia, to further develop, we were, and I was personally proud of it. However, anyone who had any follow-up in the economy and general market movements had to be suspicious whether it was really supported by the results of the business with financial opportunities, whether or not the company. And then here it is, finding that the financial reports were faked, and especially when it's me, and I've repeatedly asked here for an answer as to how it's possible to issue notes without a cover, and that no one reacts. And we didn't get an answer on the Committee, or on the board, or here in the assembly how many of these bonds are and on which they amount to what time they reach. And is someone, and is someone going to answer for it? Maybe they will, tomorrow, but today no one is and we still haven't got the answers. And that's one of the reasons we want to know the truth about that part of the issue of bonds without cover. I also asked several times, including on the Committee on Economy who wrote the law, no matter who wrote the law. We were all in favour of saving jobs and saving the general state of the economy in Croatia, because these seventy-eighty companies, the agricultural food processing work is really very important for the economy in Croatia. It was all of us, and it was supposed to be an interest. And why keep it secret, who writes the law, then after a month, after the pressure of the public admits, that, as the former Deputy Prime Minister confessed; yes, I, along with my colleagues, wrote that law and stand behind it. So why didn't he say it out loud, and I asked that too, and we didn't get answers, what it would cost those counselors and who made the decision to make that fee exactly the same. I didn't get an answer, I tried to read from the minutes that we received from the meeting of the interim council of creditors and there for a miracle, from ten or twelve sessions nowhere in the record that discussed how much fees were paid to counselors, when they would be paid and in what amounts. And it's said, that's their money, that's what the credentials have decided, they have the right to manage their means. And I agree, yes, but they still needed to know and need to make a decision about it, and they didn't. Apparently, they kept quiet because, were they ordered to shut up or were, due to some circumstances, that some amount had to be paid off, that at least some amount had been paid off, because it was ultimately not known that it would end up all together, but the real truth is, you can verify for yourself that the interim religious council had not made a decision on it. The only answer we've received since then, the gentleman who led the procedure is: well, she threatened to blow up a nuclear reactor, which you're asking me how much water I've spent to cool off that reactor. Well, of course, it's his right not to answer and not to comment. However, it is not right not to receive representatives of two hundred companies, family companies that had over five million kunas, who sought over three hundred million kunas from Agrokor and were paid everything by 30% and promised to receive them and to try to find a solution for them. He neither received them nor found a solution for them. So not all small suppliers are paid as said here today. Over two hundred of these family companies, who sought over three hundred million kunas, were not paid and I said then, at that time, counselors were paid over 300 million kn. It could also be conditioned to pay off those 200 family companies, which is a question of whether they will be able to do business tomorrow, to survive on the Croatian market. Because they're corners. depended on Agrokor both the entrance and the exit and their claims were charged by various compensations, rarely when they received the financial amount, the financial resources, the transfer to their giro account, but for a year, two days, they ran and begged to be paid, and now they entered the same basket, with banks, with scavenger funds and will wait for the next 4 years... of them 80 million euros, to what extent it should be paid, on the basis of a settlement to get any money or not, and whether it will survive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid a lot of them won't, and it's not good, and it's not fair, and it's because of the truth that they're not paid. The deal is that, achieved, over 80% but still 20% of the companies and the most from the Republic of Croatia remained unsatisfactory and unsatisfactory, went with the lawsuits, the High Court of Commerce confirmed the settlement and thus, according to the diameter, it is a finished story. I'm afraid it's not nearly a story, because what Mr. Ramljak had shyly written in his plan to reconstruct Agrokor, he asked that there would be layoffs and cuts in the number of jobs. No one publicly said that as much as in any company, and now they're going to decide, Russian banks, scavenger funds and others that have over 80%. So the question is whether it will remain production in Belje, Vupik or PIK Vinkovci, if it is found that it does not bring profit to them, so you know what they will do with it or sell or shut down those productions. That's true, and that's what our citizens need to know. That's unfortunately so. And here, we see now that both the oil workers and their trade unions are asking for the story around them to be taken over by Mrs. Dalic, that Horvat is no longer leading this problem because this is taking too long and there is no solution for their agony and unfortunately the Republic of Croatia will have to pay more than 4 billion guarantees state-owned for unfinished business, and the government has given all guarantees. Well, Mrs. Dalic knew how to write the law for Agrokor, along with her associates, she could write the law for the borg group, she knew how to draw 500 million kn for counselors, someone who worked for 3-4 thousand kn cannot even imagine what that amount of money was, and for years she had to work to feed their family, and someone in 10 days or a month or 3 months. Just because he was reading financial reports and giving advice on how to go for 10 million or 75, 10 billion, 10 million or 75 million kuna, millions, millions, is millions. It's hard to imagine, I've never had a million in my hand, and in 10 days, they've made 10 million dollars. See when the payoffs went. According to the financial account after 30 days of work. And therefore, here, I would like to really be in Croatia a breakdown of partner capitalism. However, this book only raises new questions, who was all at the promotion of the book, who was behind it, and it is interesting that Mrs. Dalic quoted in her book a statement of the diameter of Plenkovic, I came and my mission was to change HDZ, that is, Croatia. So I ask you, did it really change Croatia, for the better, that all businesses are equal in front of Croatian laws, and we know that until small craftsmen and entrepreneurs could get loans, Agrokor received more than 60 million kn even though it was already known to be in financial problems. We have a judiciary that rejects charges of opposition to such actions in this process, and on the other hand, some processes are speeding up, or, slowing down by leaking SMS messages or emails. So I ask you whether we are changing Croatia in the right direction, and the best answer is the citizens' response, who say that over 75% does not believe in the system, in the institutions in which Croatia is going. So here, in order for the direction to be better, to fix it, I think that through the work of this committee we can get to the part of the truth, let's make it possible for our fellow citizens, even if it was your triumph. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101309	We're moving on now to an individual debate, first in line, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101310	Thank you very much. Here, I would start from the moment Rohatinski admitted that current Minister Maric and current Minister Kujundzic were sent by Todorovic to force Rohatinski i.e. to persuade him or be pleased, to be a candidate for HDZ's diameter, that is to the question of colleagues of Nikola Grumoja, answered publicly, down on the commission, but it is also the fact that we are not getting any messages out of it, which are all the forces and links, and also, when we talk about the cause of the collapse of the Croatian economy and at the time of arrival, who is guilty, what has been led to. So yesterday on the team we watch cream, elite, comrades in the Republic of Croatia, so there I notice in the main role of Governor Vujčić, whom you have re-elected here, on the day of Croatia – England, in the morning, on the quick board, so I remember asking you not to choose this man. Last year, half-day ago, I filed a criminal report to the State's Attorney's Office for the financial stability council of 10 billion kunas without cover allowed Ivica Todorovic and his Agrokor to be used. It is a direct blow to the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia and monetary. It's a blow to the foundation of the Republic of Croatia. And now Vujcic is the main promoter of partner and fight against people who have led to the system for the entire economic system to be addictive in one man. Yes, the political elites depended on Todorovic, they were not allowed to mention him. Well, Martina Dalicka was the finance minister, she shouldn't have mentioned him, that's what my colleague Schuker knows. Who should have mentioned him in a negative sense when he was a minister? No one dared, you had to paint with him, you had to visit him in court, his basements, Agrolagun, so here's no colleagues from IDS. That system would be nakarad, that system would be what it is, and you'd all be courting people like that. That's a fact. Which took the state's attorney's office on the promoter issue, Vujčića absolutely nothing, he was re-elected for the award. And of course we expect Martina Dalic to be in the CNB soon, because it's such a partner, so promoted that there is no larger partner. We can't get into the causes here, colleagues from HDZ, we can't get into the cause, basically. And the problem is Minister Maric forgives the workers of the Dalmatians, i.e. I don't forgive them, their money, their taxes, and that's about 10 million kuna. It's a problem to make the workers of Dalmatia, but it wasn't a problem for Ivica Todorovic. It wasn't a problem 10 billion kuna, it's no problem but it's a huge problem when workers have their claims, workers in this case before Kamensko, in this case I've been talking about the Dalmatian workers and a number of other Castelans, a number of others who have not been paid, their bloody money. It's a system made like that. The state was managed by Ivica Todoric. In all governments, in all governments, he had an intrusion. Agriculture was absolutely focused on it, finance is focused on the Ministry of Finance. Not only was Vujcic guilty, in the Stability Council were the Minister of Finance, Governor, Vice Governors and the HANF. I've filed a criminal report against everyone. Legal deadlines are for answering it seems to me six months to see if the criminal application will rise or not. There's no answer, no answer. And you promoted this man who allowed Ivica Todorovic to stand up to politics to be governor, you allowed him to survive and now promote as a fight against partners. And yesterday, when it was, it was, the rulers of Croatia. Here's a fellow Shuker, so he was closer, and I'd like him to present what he says about these people. My colleague Jandrokovic wasn't at this point, so I wouldn't have asked him, but I saw Shuker, a colleague, if he were. These are the rulers of Croatia, the rulers. You have to listen to them. And that's not good. That's not good. Which is why he got into a situation at all, and I'd like to discuss why, what's causing it. What's the embryo of that problem? I'd like you to give me a line here, colleague Šipic, give me the replica. What's the embryo problem, partner capitalism? But no one wants to laugh, of course it's funny and you re-elected Vujčić on the day of the game, when people, Croatian citizens expected the match England, Croatia, then for the prize, you re-elected Vujčić, who promotes the end of the partner. And there's no bigger dude than him. Bigger... You can't believe a man who's jeopardizing the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia, which 10 billion kunas, I claim, I claim to have a high school, a fellow Shucker who was a minister, all of you financial experts, I had to file a criminal report, you all kept your mouth shut. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 10 billion kunas without cover. When you're raising a 50 grand loan, do they ask you for guarantees, do they ask you for guarantees? 10 billion, that's ridiculous. You buried the state of blood created. You brought her into this situation, you. Shame on you. Shame on you. 10 billion kunas with no bonds, 10 billion kunas, and no one has a single word. No one, one and the other and the third and the fifth, all the government, all the government. Ten billion kunas and you voted for the prize, you voted, you voted for Boric, 10 billion kunas without cover and re-elected Vujic, Vujic. And the fact that he's on the team with Peppermint at the cafe, with Tedeschi, with Milanovic and them, we can talk about it the same way, but you re-elected him. ... That's right, and they were very noticeable at the promotion, along with, of course, your mentor and Prime Minister... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] which is the whole management operation and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The cause is important, the cause. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we need to talk about. Gentlemen, when a man named Vujčić is at the head of a key institution that calls a tender for waiters who must combine wine with a twist of fish, when there is no idea how much money he spends. You remember here the battles that we MOST independent lists to give reports as well as other institutions how you defended him here. It's the center of power. And the Parliament wants to make it the worst institution and, of course, as often as it takes to send them on vacations, to talk about what's more relaxing, of course and to say those are people who don't fight, there are people who don't work at all, and that's that story. And the Parliament should be the center of power. And it is up to the Parliament to make an account for it, and you have re-elected it as a reward. Then put Martina Dalic on the right hand as well. So let them help her in that whole process. Gentlemen, the rulers, your bosses, were at the presentation yesterday. I don't know, I haven't seen Greguric and the others, but they've probably seen it elsewhere. These are the key levers that allowed us to bring a year and a half ago, the Croatian economy to collapse and you have rewarded such people with re-election for the Governor, the Croatian National Bank or, if you will, not the National Bank. Ten billion kuna, no cover. And how much money, was it necessary to go to the peasants for the OPGs, went to Todorovic and similar, will soon come to Slavonia similar. Huge money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101311	Thank you. Thanks, buddy Bull. Let's go to the replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101312	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. I don't know why you got into Vujčić, he's a small fish, as far as the group is concerned, there were the capitalists and president of the HDZ Representatives Club, (Laughter) Mr. Bačić, Mr. Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, Mr. Schuker, former finance minister, and I think I also saw Boric in a bunch of backgrounds, but he was there, too, so Vujčić is a tiny fish and the only thing he would positively point out is the wisdom of holding the President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Jandrokovic, who did not get caught in that society because man has an exceptional nose. He feels like it's not good. And on that side, here, I'd like you to compliment him too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101313	Comrade Maras, indeed no one has a better instinct than President Jandrokovic. The moment he showed the direction was also in cases, and when he was the Karamark case, and Mrs. Kosor, then when he felt Sanader, it meant that the end was coming, and at this point, perhaps unexpectedly, I'm giving him absolute support, he felt the moment. It may be an ambition to be prime minister, but it doesn't matter, but I am supporting it, because Andrej Plenkovic probably goes to the European Union, he found good sponsors yesterday, we saw, but, and these others who were, which you listed, under Vujic and below, are mostly listeners who will do part of the job, and even in the next presentations here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101314	Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101315	Thank you very much, President. Well, fellow Bull, don't generalize the entire HDZ. So I see no one here has read Mrs. Dalic's book. She says in her book, that, say, Minister Goran Maric attacked her at the HDZ presidency meetings and said that HDZ cannot suffer because of its decisions. So Goran Maric is not on the side of this story. You're talking about the nose of our Gordan Jandrokovic, the Parliament, he showed his nose before, so Mrs. Dalic in the book says he's guilty of why she and Ramljak had to leave. Because until he talked about their marifettes, they, no one in Croatia noticed the problem, so the President saw ours, Jandrokovic, a few months ago that things didn't work out there. Therefore, he is not like a colleague of Bacic, who says in the book that he fought heroically for our cause, as he knows and can, that's what Mrs. Dalic wrote here, and gave all the effort to defend our story. So they're not all the same, and that's why we need the Commission to clear up these relations at HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101316	Thank you very much. Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101317	Thank you. I agree with this last one, that the Committee should, and of course I see that you have read the book, that you have time to read, and that (Laughter) what Dalic writes about Jandrokovic, says that Jandrokovic actually felt that the fall was going to happen then. The fracture of Andrej Plenkovic and his government, and his right hands, Mrs Dalic, and he is the one who felt it, and you are always tributing from HDZ, you gentlemen follow, and this time, listen to the direction that the President of Parliament is going. Just remember what it was like, first you had to clap on the full hall, Sanader when he was leaving, and then Kosorica, but still the man who has the feeling, has instinct, natural, God-given, means when you see that he pulls his tail and moves, at that point, fellow Bačić, make sure you make sure that you make that call. Okay. Thank you. (Laughter).../ The speakers speak out loud, they don't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101318	Speak so wisely that it is no wonder that you are doing so well, both of you and others. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101319	Individually? Individually, yes. Yes.) Thank you very much. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try in my 10 minutes, the story of the investigation committee, speak a little wider, but not moving away from Agrokor as a topic, because we want to show that things didn't look like what many people today, after 18 months, are experiencing. We remember the reaction then of many from the opposition and their reactions here at the Assembly. Because the fact is, this story has marked the last two years, and if they asked someone today if they were expecting her in the campaign, if they promised her, no one. Neither expected nor promised to solve a problem that arises after 6 months of then by the HDZ and MOST government. It was clear that this is one big problem which, I say today, at the level of some political options from the opposition and their way of solving would mean only one thing - economic breakdown, bankruptcy, thousands of broken OPGs, small and large enterprises, the breakdown of tens of thousands of employees and, of course, a major challenge for state finances themselves. The very beginning of the HDZ and Mosta government which already received its first problem a new year ago, arbitration followed by Agrokor himself, all of which are other and lagging objects or problems of transition, Croatian transitions of unblocked, completed, from RBA savings, from protected tenants, from public debt, deficits, credit rating, salaries, pensions, etc. show that a great burden has been created before this government of Mr. Andrej Plenkovic to prove the ability to solve the biggest problems that have been solved for years by perhaps the easiest sprawl or that famous saying "my concern is to move on to another". When it became clear that the topic of Agrokor could not be hidden, the responsible government approached the problem of a time-limited, unsustainable situation that we recorded at the end of the 3rd and early 4th months. We remember some of these assembly debates from the assembly that day. The credentials are starting to block the account. The media publishes shelves every day that have no product. There's a fear of workers getting their pay. Easter at the door and calling everyone to get that big problem out of the way. Of course, the responsible government has approached solving this problem in a way that proposes a law that causes a great debate in this assembly. This law must channel the operations of Agrokor in future time and continuation of work, continuation of payout and continuation of the functioning of a large system. With 18 months away where those who made their own contribution to the opposition measures in such a way as to offer bankruptcy as a solution and a bag of cabbage as their contribution, after 6 debates in the Assembly on this topic in which it covered and even a debate on the impeachment of the entire government on the same subject, clearly continues to think that the problem of their political concepts to which they should receive certain political points is successfully solved. If today all those employees in Konzum, in any company, the factory, I don't know the Star, the White, etc. what they think of your commitment to bankruptcy and all the solutions that were supposed to mean the termination of work and their contribution to this society, you would understand very clearly all the emptyness of your activities here in the Parliament. When a party is doing so, which is practically now in some kind of collective suicide process, when it is done by a party that has contributed itself to lawmaking, so today it would be researching itself what it was doing at that time of law making, it is clear that we have a problem, that we have a problem with people who simply cannot understand what was happening in Croatia 18 months ago, at the end of the 3rd and early 4th months. They could not understand today what economic problem lies ahead of us and what we have offered to solve this economic problem. It's very simple today that these solutions of theirs, of course, with the easiest kind of, the easiest behavior of the so-called. Aftershocks. We know everything today. But we go back to that moment 18 months ago when it was clear that we had to pass a quick one law. Why didn't anyone recognize the problem that came up after five, six months and put in some kind of amendment? No one. No one. But today everybody knows everything. Today we have solutions to a law that has passed or has become part of European legislation, which has passed some view of the court in London, which has become part of an insolvent law solution in the Republic of Croatia, which was supposed to solve the problem of 50 billion of someone's debt. And what do we have today? Once again attempt to convince the public that it is not good if the creditors agreed to entrust their money and fight for their money to certain consultants and advisers, it is not good without activation and a single kuna of taxpayers. When one former government minister, Zoran Milanovic, applauded the acquisition of Agrokor in the sense of Merkator, when he said it was a perfect and excellent move, when in one I guess the tranche or I don't know how much they paid for more than 300 million kunas also to consultants and advisers, it was a normal situation. How to understand these differences in approach unless the opposition always has the right to be sneer at power especially if it successfully solves one problem and makes a great effort to solve such a problem and not feel in the Republic of Croatia in the way they may have imagined that the people would roll the streets, that dissatisfaction would come to the streets and that they should sacrifice all of this so that someone would create a minimum political platform for themselves that might have replaced the current government. When you read the book and learn that the Bridge advocated the entry of state and state interventionism in terms of finance, it is clear that we have problems in understanding what the law should offer. When you hear from the SDP that bankruptcy was the solution and today you connect it to another problem that we have, which is shipbuilding, you see the distance between these two policy options from the two solutions that they were offering at the time. Today's bankruptcy is not a solution to shipbuilding, today's state intervention in shipbuilding is not welcome. What's this about? About your own credibility or incompetence. Because when someone can't understand after 18 months, not after all the attempts of recalling, nor after all the lies that have been made that there's just nothing of daily politics and biting of daily political points, that the ratings are going down, gentlemen, again you're chasing a topic that you don't have much to say, in a way that you're trying to challenge people again, and you're trying to re-prove bad stories about Agror who today, right after last week, has a completely predictable direction and an end. And if that's the problem, if we're going to base the investigative committees on what we've worked out to the last detail, the question is what with everything that's preceded it and those who've made a great contribution to having this law passed, and I'm saying, a book that everyone is commenting on and no one would read it, but everyone quotes it and has gotten some public success, obviously between the opposition creating a confusion in a way that I don't even see too much interest in correcting this story about the investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101320	Thank you, we have eight replicas. First up, Comrade Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101321	Thank you very much, fellow Boric, you gave an inspiring speech, you saw that you gave everything in it, your knowledge, your experience, your political experience and everything that follows. As if you regret being mentioned twice by your colleague Bačić, and you never once in this book, Martina Dalic, you will probably show in the second edition that you are fighting how you can do your thing along with your Martin. As your colleague Bacic said, the government has no price, Martina Dalic said, she remembered it and how well he taught it probably you think so, and therefore you don't let the citizens hear what happened there, you don't give it to the commission, no one knows why other than yourself, we assume why. Anything would come up, any kind of deal, and like this, we only have what our Martina wrote to us. Give the citizens the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101322	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101323	We gave our fellow Maras the truth through the Law, which you were against and proposed changes to the bankruptcy law and bankruptcy as a solution. That's your contribution, and I made that clear, because that's how you approached every problem and also in the government where you were minister. That's how you got rid of, if I'm not mistaken, one 70,000 crafts, as Minister of Small crafts and entrepreneurship, you left us a public debt increased by 90 billion kuna, because for your authority there was no price to pay, even in billions of kuna to remain in power. So, to put something in our mouths or in a way to say that there was no price, it had a price, this government made a great effort to save an economic operator, and what you were saying about that subject I already said in my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101324	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, let's see.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's clear to everyone that 238 was injured here, fellow Boric constantly...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101326	What's hurt?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101327	One of the 10 false things he said was hurt by saying 10 false things, maybe it's normal and likable for you in HDZ, so you can't lie, it's not allowed, it's not nice behavior, Mr. Boric and the gentlemen of HDZ, please warn Mr. Boric who 10 lies in his speech, and that's fun...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101328	All right, fellow Maras, time's up, I've let you go a lot longer, you're getting a warning because you've abused the Rules of Procedure's breach.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101329	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101330	Let's move on. Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101331	And I mean, violence can be funny, but everything has its end, everything has its end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101332	Yes, colleague Klisovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101333	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear Mr. Boric, in your individual debate, you have recapitulated the arguments once again, the sentences presented by our colleague Bacic on behalf of the HDZ Club or Prime Minister Plenkovic in public. But you did not answer one of the questions that I asked the vice presidents of the then Dalic when she came to the Committee on Economy, which was how possible it was if she controlled the law that we call Lex Agrokor, colloquially, that that provision of conflict of interest, a special Commissioner, was drawn from it, when, as an example, the pattern of the foundation written by Lex Agrokor, was taken by Lex Parmalat Italian law, or by a group of prodigals that contained such a provision. Whether you consider it correct or consider it a business model that was designed and then legaled in Croatian law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101334	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101335	Thank you very much, colleague Klisovic, I asked myself this question and in my individual debate, as you who knew everything and then turned out to be such a question, i.e. Why didn't you submit the amendment today after 18 months knowing everything that was going to happen in that short time of 15 days? Why didn't you fix it then, you were giving amendments, but not in that sense, if I remember correctly, you were giving amendments in the sense that this story moved into the bankruptcy law. And you, in fact, have tried to take this company into bankruptcy in any way. You can't get away from it, you can say whatever you want today, but I'm going back to today's shipbuilding problem, which we're inheriting from your government as a solution. How come this bankruptcy isn't an option today? So it's not just easy to say something to go into bankruptcy, it's a lot harder what would have happened if it hadn't been for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101336	Thank you. Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101337	Thank you very much, I'd like to apologize, but I'd like you to take it back to read the book. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101338	Well, then, you gave up. The fourth is a respected colleague, Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101339	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague, I'll tell you the truth, you've only touched everything that's been paid and who's all calmed down in this whole process. Since 5 times a great lie and a lie has been made here, I would just like to remind myself that all the OPGs in this process are 100% paid, and so many times everyone in the media has been told that it's almost as frightening as ignorance and incorrect false information comes back here from the assembly today. And for the sake of truth, I'll just remind myself after the blockade was lifted when it was last year, so on March 31st, there were 6 kunas in the account, so colleagues and colleagues, let's remember what was in March last year, an ex-post mind to anyone who didn't give a solution to any kind of law, except by asking for investigative committees, it's not an honor, because you're simply bringing lies to the public space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101340	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101341	My colleagues, Glavak, we must warn, i.e. to explain and even defend themselves in some way against one of the government's successful moves to prove to the other side that even today after 18 months, they are not aware and do not understand the problem that was at the door. They don't understand it simply, and they're offered as options to run the country tomorrow. To them, it seemed so simple, I guess, at that very moment that they have the same attitude today, that they haven't learned anything in the last 18 months. And they've all turned into some little detective agencies that do some research every day, every day we have discussions here about the investigations they're conducting. So for that we have institutions and bodies, since when did this assembly become the largest body to explore everything and everyone?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101342	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101343	Thank you, Mr. President, you said it was easy to be a general after the battle, I agree. So let's remember that Mr. Bozo Petrov as then president of the assembly suggested that the state nationalizes then Agrokor, I can't imagine what would have happened to what situation we would have been in today if we had gone that way, but the government had the courage and made a decision that was then, which it really took courage to achieve success, but obviously in our society today, it's the most difficult to admit success, and as long as we think about it, we won't be able to move forward. And today, the promoters of this decision again on the establishment of the commission obviously only recognising the importance of this topic are looking for a new stage so that they can perform and deal with politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101344	Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101345	Thank you very much, colleague Jelkovac. I think our fellow representatives from the Bridge have not recovered from that saying today or the famous sentence of our Prime Minister: I ask the secretary to prepare a resolution of the 3 Bridges of Ministers. Simply after that time after they participated in the drafting of this law they today represent the signatures of a re-examination commission to investigate themselves for what they were doing in those few days or 10 days, and we see from the book that many of the information that came out today, I didn't know them. The first called an extraordinary commissioner, the first organised meetings, offered their solutions and state interventionism in terms of the state's entry into the concert. And today, a different story we turn it around and we try, again, on a successful story, on the success of this government. They collect points and their ratings go down. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101346	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101347	My colleague Boric, my colleague, I'm surprised that you've forgotten some of this, and the revised financial report says so nicely. When the financial problems of Agrokora began, 2012, when the expansion of the regressive bonds began, in 2013-2014, who was to control it, HANFA, who changed the HANFI Act in 2012, and you touched the Uljanika, and you know when 80% of the guarantees were issued, 2014-2015, and you know who was then in power, those who attack the most today, SDP. So...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101348	I'm a colleague of Boric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101349	Thank you, dear fellow Shuker, here we see that fellow Petrova is gone but that meeting will probably last late at night, because we have received a promise that he will come, but he is gone. Why? And then, but when we go back to history and I wanted to explain the width of this context and the very origin of the Agrokor problem and the solution for it, it's clear that many today, producing exactly this kind of story about investigative committees, are actually running away from their own responsibilities that they had at a time when they were finely raising their hands on this side and leading this country, it's a fact. Public debt 80 billion, deficit 20 billion every year, GDP down 11 quarters, I don't know what to count anymore, credit rating down to the lowest level, trash. So, spend the money, don't solve the problems and leave everyone else, look good in public and fight again for power. I think we're gonna And we've set ourselves up differently and we'll keep going differently. [[Intruder: Thank you time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101350	Time. Mr. Bilek Vladimir, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101351	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here is my colleague, Boris, so at the beginning of the term, no one thought that we would have to deal with Agrokor this way, we thought that one stable company that has prosperity was spreading, etc., but that it would not repeat what Mr. Shucker said, when big problems started last year, when the system collapse started, when people were afraid for wages, employees, the OPGs, that they would not be paid, when they asked employees today, they would see that the wages are stable, that all overtimes are now slowly, starting to pay, to pay for growth, the OPGs, as a colleague of Glavak said, they were all paid, and then we hear some of the rest of the people, who have proposed bankruptcy as a solution, who proposed that the state would pay for their recapitalisations, as well as well as our state budgets do not see anything about the budgets, and the budgets that we do not have any of the state, Let me just finish the sentence. ... [[Time, thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101352	that it's the wish of some people. ... [[They'll accuse me of being from the same club, the time. Please.]] Thank you. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101353	Thank you, esteemed Vice President, colleague Bilek, that's just it, political promotion, but again in the wrong way, again on the subject, which is good for this government and they think there's room for them, but they show them, all the research and everything else that they don't understand, or the direction in which the government leads this country, or that they have solutions for anything, let alone a solution to this problem. Well, we remember those discussions, so I come from an island. Surely my fear, as well as the fear of employees who have one store, was great in the sense that Easter is at the door, that the season is at the door and that bankruptcy is not the solution. They offered it, and people today need to know and understand it. And that it's not all about who makes any statements and any kind of initiatives that need to hurt someone's hard work and someone's knowledge, no matter what anyone thinks about themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101354	Thank you very much. The last replica, Mr. Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101355	Thank you very much, fellow Boric, you have here now defended this whole process from the beginning to the end and so I don't understand why you are against the investigation committee? Well, the investigation committee should give answers to those questions about who's right and everything you've been saying should be cleared up on the investigation committee. And from your discussion, I see that you also read Mrs. Dalic's book, and then you certainly read inside, as she says that after the affair of consultants, Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic went on a mini campaign in Slavonia, where he spoke in Slavonski Brod, we cannot, as HDZ, who invested large political capital in saving Agrokor, suffer political damage, because some individuals thought they could have something for themselves here. So, you don't all think that everything here was clean, so give the investigative committee, let's see if Mr. Jandrokovic is right, who says someone wanted something for himself or Mr. Bacic who Mrs. Dalic says that with a few MPs, you're probably amongst the few, heroically fighting, the best she can do for... It's a thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So give the commission to see who's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101356	Answer Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101357	Coli Đujic, when we said that it was in accordance with the law and that we would not stick to the law, the way you want to stick to it, as you do at a given moment and adapt it through previous attempts to change and decide on investigative committees, and today with this decision some situations are born. So if a criminal trial is initiated, no commission, it's over. And what you offered or solved, I remember your debate, do you remember? You then spoke of Mexico and some of the signs that resemble the signs of Consumm. And already someone is protecting someone, and already that someone is HDZ, etc. You see today, that's not so, that it's more there, you than we are, in this whole story, so I say today, we're discussing but don't lead us in a way, the debate leads us in a way that makes us here... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101358	Thank you very much, time, thank you. We're going with individual debates today, Mr. Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101359	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today we are in a paradoxical situation, and I will explain why. Because the bridge that passed this bill, today it is opposed and pointed to it as a symbol of all the bad in order to say business and politics. But, on the other hand, the HNS that was sitting here and was part of the opposition and criticizing this law is lauding it today. And this paradox, in fact, points to the following fact, which is that in Croatia the laws are not passed because the ruling and the opposition think that something good or bad is simply an opposition, i.e. none of them have played the opposition, in fact they rejected all the initiatives of the government of apriors, and now all the initiatives of the government of apriors accept, even those they previously opposed. And on the other hand, the bridge that was power and voted for the law is now against it, point out and point out to us, all the shortcomings of this law, which we all agree on in the Living Wall, it's not disputed, only unfortunately, we've already explained, not only we, there were constitutional legal experts, there were all those who explained why the law wasn't bad, and they still voted for it, despite all the arguments. And now they're actually in a similar situation to the CNS today. The moment the HNS moves back into the opposition, it is likely to criticise this law again, but what I was going to say, many have boasted, says Mr. Pernar, so this law has allowed little OPGs to settle, etc. That's right. Mr. I'll fight right. But I asked, okay, if you gave priority to the small ones in this law, not to the financial creditors, then why don't you change the bankruptcy law the same way? Why in this case alone, to settle small, and in countless other thousands of bankruptcys and companies where workers have not settled down, you don't want to change the law, but in every other bankruptcy, you put financial creditors in the first place. And I, on the other hand, praise this law, it was a good decision, but unless it applies to the bankruptcy law or if it doesn't become a general practice, this was just a one-time measure that will probably never happen again because the law was targeted for a single company. So I'm not criticizing this aspect of the law. But there's another aspect of the law that I'm criticizing, which is the following, the same group of people wrote the law, the same group of people implemented it, and the same group of people got jobs as consulting services, or jobs worth 500 million kuna. That's half a billion. Hey, my dears, you know what half a billion is? Many believers were able to settle in much larger ways, even fully, that the advisory services did not amount to such a large amount. And the question is, well, how could that happen? What's the problem? Well, the problem is that the law didn't oblige that extraordinary manager to form a religious council. If a religious council had been formed that he did not choose, then and if he spent 5 billion kuna on advisory services, it was, but the creditors agreed and there is nothing disputed about it. Thus, by not creating this permanent religious council that would have to approve or confirm his decisions, he raised doubts that he had favored his friends, acquaintances, and even his former firm. And it's interesting when my colleague, if I remember Darinko Kosor, asked him: "Well, how is it that you gave your former firm a job for if I'm not mistaken for 10 million kunas?" And he replied: "Look, ha, I would be in your place," he said, "I probably thought it was some sort of setup." And now someone who's naive could and then said, "Yeah, a lot of mistakes were made and so, there was little time, there was a rush." However, when you go into a deeper analysis or let's say it like this, when you look at the content of e-mails if they're authentic it makes us sense without a shadow that the law has been deliberately changed in a certain way. So these mistakes, anomalies, etc. in my court, it wasn't by accident, it was intentional and targeted. That's why that conflict of interest provision was removed, because otherwise his firm couldn't get the former consulting job, etc. Also, Alex partners in Croatia this firm that got a job consulting, and ladies and gentlemen, a 100 million kuna job, the number of employees 0. How do we say, how do we say that some other firm didn't get such a big job, or that amount of money, and so few employees? And that actually raises the suspicion that part of the money was drawn, doubt. Because they can't explain such astronomical amounts differently without having real costs. So look at their profits. They get enormous, so of course when the price of the service was much higher to say so in a picturesque way than the costs themselves. Because if that service was worth more, in my court or her expenses could not have been made that big a profit. Of course, someone won't agree with me and someone will say no, sir you're wrong, I think it's all right, that there's no problem with Alex's getting a job for 100 million kunas, etc. However, we return to the beginning of the story. The whole debate on counselors is about the fact that there was no classical council of creditors who approved the decisions. And when it comes to the fact that the law was done in a certain way to abolish mechanisms to say protection or responsibility and that it actually puts Anta Ramljak in some way working on him by Pharaoh, or by giving him Pharaohic powers, it must be asked whether the whole process was fair or not. And you gentlemen and the HDZ ladies will tell me that everything was great, everything was fine, and you will praise that law and its results. But I ask you, if all you praise is true, I have one honest question for you, the most honest question. So why did Mr. Ramljak resign? Why did Mrs. Martina Dalic resign? These are questions you don't answer, and you don't mention it, and that's the central question. If all is fair and fair, then what is the success or resignation? Why didn't we applaud them here for a job well done? Well precisely because after the whole process there were doubts about his honesty and that's the point of the whole story tax on management, Alex partners and a similar team have apparently profited or earned on this law. It is also known that vulture funds also profited from the law. Try to imagine what it would be like, instead of vulture funds and advisors, that, say, a billion kuna was directed to these honest creditors who delivered the truth to real goods and services, not to the mixers, speculators who are looking for more than a hypothetically for 20 grand debt. But of course I know that everything I'm saying is of no interest to you. Nothing here is strange and contentious to you, and I can only appeal to my bridge colleagues to be wiser next time, to have their eyes wide open because I'm afraid that otherwise the HDZ could fool them even for the third time. And why is that? Well, you can see for yourself where you are now. The situation isn't to say very green, and here are gentlemen from the HNS who don't flower roses, and this political marriage out of favor with HDZ, I'm afraid it's going to end up with a painful divorce.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101360	Thank you, time. Thank you, too, but you'll get plenty of opportunities now, so you'll continue the debate. Mr. Churay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101361	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Pernar, just a few things as far as I can get. You will remember that we and the amendments have proposed for this existing law and one of these amendments has just gone to roll up and the goods that the suppliers of the small ones deliver, to admit it to them and that they can get an old debt kuna. This law did not resolve the championship of small suppliers, it was entrusted with its decision, so it cannot be transposed into the bankruptcy law, so as to normally roll up the loan, and this made it possible for this law, that someone who gives you a new credit may claim a kuna of debt, with these funds all small suppliers paid off. And as for us, we said, we have what we have, because it could have been better, it could have been, time has shown it, but in the end it's done a great job and we have to say it out loud and clear because while every place is saved, until no kuna comes out of our taxes, I think it's an extremely good job. No matter what might have been better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101362	Thank you. Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101363	You say every place was saved, but look at the total number of employees in Agrokor on the eve of Ante Ramljak's arrival and how many today. So you'll see that there's still one significant hole in that number. But what I want to show you is that, in fact, your hypocrisy, is that you spoke against that law, your colleagues from the CNS at the time, and now you praise it. That's the problem in the whole story, just like the MOST who also praised the law at the time, and now criticises him and that's another anomaly of this, I would dare say, intransparent majority, which I actually don't think is, in decision-making is necessarily handled by a council but by some other motives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101364	Thank you, too, another replica, Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101365	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. So you're talking about the fees of consultants that amount to over half a billion kuna, there's a serious doubt that these consultations were never made, that this money was simply divided between the BORG group and the politicians, here's an example for comparison. For example, Reifeisen's pension fund, which has 40 billion kuna property, means similar property to Agrokor, pays consultants 800 thousand kuna annually. So they have consultants for 800,000, and Agrokor for 560, 70 million must pay consultants with 60,000 employees. So all those tips, all the legal actions Agrokor needed could have been done inside an eight-state company, no consultations should have been made, and we can only wonder how much of that money ended up in our politicians' pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101366	Thank you. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101367	You say Mr. Bunjac that according to your court, the amount of money should not have been spent on all those advisors, but would Alex partners have received as much money as he had received, whether Ramljak's figuratively speaking, by yesterday's firm, had received the money that he had received, and these are the questions that my court has asked you, in fact, that it was in the interest of someone in my court that the amount of money would be spent on that, or on advisory services, and that certain advisers were chosen, I explained earlier that the same people had written the law and were later engaged as advisers and that Ramjak also told the prime minister that the administration would hire these same people later, but that is a deeper, deeper debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101368	Thank you. Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101369	Mr. Pernar when you spoke in the second part of your debate about the withdrawal of money from Agrokor. Did I get that right so that, say, your debate could be described as follows? Operation Agrokor is actually a submerged rescue operation. We managed to get him to shore, then we stole his wallet. Then we ran to the people who followed the entire operation from the coast and said, "We were able to save, the drowner is alive." No one mentions a wallet, and you've been asking more of those people for a confession to save a drowning man's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101370	Answer. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101371	Ha, Mr. Klisovic, let's compare it like this. They have earned a lot of that law, there are nice solid figures, however the key question is whether they have the right to such fees. No problem even if they take his wallet from my side and steal the drowner, but on one assumption. So that the drowning man with this consent, that the drowned fellow Klisovic said feel free to take my wallet, thank you for all of it. But you have a situation that the victims of this process, that is, are believers, have remained short sleeves and have not been able to influence within the meaning of that permanent religious council whether they will accept all these figures that went to Ramljakov or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101372	Thank you. Mr. Soko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101373	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so here's colleague Pernar, I'm glad you're making progress, in the meantime, that you've realized that these are not taxpayers' funds but company funds. And who owns the company? The company's owner is like in this case a believer. You say the believers disagreed, so how could they not agree? 80% of them signed a deal, that deal was confirmed by the court and it's a powerful one, so I really don't understand what the problem is. When you have the means you will be able to deal with them however you will, but the believers have absolutely said theirs and it is not up to you to assess whether they need consultants or not, they have assessed it themselves. Secondly, you mentioned the current composition, ownership structure, etc., etc. And funds. So in the ownership structure are those creditors who had prior claims from which Todorovic was in debt, and those creditors who were willing to lend credit when few were ready for Agrokor to come to the funds and pay off the OPGs, suppliers, etc. And that's why they're in the ownership structure. That's why that little man, the supplier, didn't go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101374	Time. Thank you. Before... the word Mr. Pernar, all one request. Don't beat so much with your bats. We see. You can damage the bat, you can damage the bench. That's all taxpayers' money. Just pick it up and we'll see it. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101375	Your Honor, I'll tell you in the simplest possible way. Believers got an offer they couldn't say no to. So they didn't accept that deal because they were most satisfied with it, but because they knew that in each other's options, their losses would be even greater. So they're actually kind of put before the final act because refusing that deal would actually ruin everyone together. And this thesis that they have agreed with these counseling costs, I repeat, if there had been a permanent council of creditors formed as in any other bankruptcy procedure, that these creditors had their representatives who represent them then your thesis would be correct, no one could dispute it. But in a situation where Ramljak himself handpicks a few of the believers, so they agree with him, then there's the question of that legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101376	Thank you, too. Mr. Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101377	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Pernar, so here's when all this started to happen when the bankruptcy was mentioned, it immediately occurred to me... Daruvar’s bankruptcy 20% of the citizens of the City of Daruvar lost their jobs and everything else, and there it was primarily not to enter bankruptcy, save jobs, save the economy and pay off the maximum possible suppliers and here you said paradox really exists a particular paradox. But I'm glad to see that the HNS understood the mistake and now supports this part as far as it's concerned and sees that it has been successfully solved, that this law has been successfully applied. But I have to tell you one thing that I really agree with you, which is that I think it's really good that in the first row the small suppliers were paid off. And really, as far as the bankruptcy law is concerned, I think you should really change it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101378	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101379	Mr. Jankovic, thank you for your observation. However, we are going back to the sumum of the whole story, which is actually that the key problem here is not the breakdown of Agrokora, is not even Ivica Todorovic. The key problem here is that the state is managed in a way that large fish are seen through the fingers. So the problem is not that there's been a breakdown of Agrokor, but that the state has allowed that whole colossal of horrors and horrors to spin in the first place. The problem is that the state allowed Agrokor to evite 10 billion kunas without cover. The problem is that the state made it possible for them to suddenly go through all those books after 15 years. For 15 years, they weren't interested in those books. No inspection has entered Agrokor. These are serious problems. And why is that? Well, because now you have an oil situation, and the day after that, you're gonna have a situation with another firm. And you'll be surprised again. [[Thank you. Thank you, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101380	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr Branimir Bunjac has his word. Mr Branimir Bunjac has his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101381	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The story of Agrokor is a story of serious and decades-old crime that intertwined the interests of mythical 200 families with the interests of political structures, a story that goes back to the beginning of the creation of the Croatian state. There were all sorts of things, from buying castles, from renting an island, from buying a suit for 200 thousand euros to financing political campaigns, unprepared guessings, abuse of state institutions for private purposes, tax evasion, criminal activities that spread throughout Europe. Finally, a secret group was formed to rob a company with the blessing of the Prime Minister. American vulture funds have arrived. There has been a global battle for influence between Russia and the United States, and ultimately we have trials to follow. We see that these days the writing and books of fairy tales that promote large literary names such as Boris Vujčić, governor of the CNB, who in just two years has managed to create 4 billion kunas of loss, that the book buys out the morning paper in 45 thousand copies with a mass fee which we do not yet know the full amount, a newspaper that is convulsing in debt and that would have long ended up in bankruptcy that does not serve the interests of the government and the executive and executive mafia and that this book is being promoted in the company of great economics and moral verticals of Boris Škegra King of Robbery conversion and privatization known for stealing a bottle of cognacs at the home and that the great Borg president of the government himself is coming to this promotion. The Agrokor case, which culminated in the spring last year, represents the last nail in the coffin of the Croatian economy because, today, more than 50% of Croatian companies or companies on Croatian territory are in foreign ownership. Lex Agrokor destroyed not only this company but the government, the parliamentary majority, the party in the Assembly, led to the removal of the state attorney, the president of the conflict of interest committee, to the change of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, obstruction of the work of the parliamentary committees, to collapse of trust not only in the Parliament but also in the institution and politics in general with incomprehensible consequences for the state and society in general. And indeed a quote from the book of Martina Dalic, Mr. Borg who says I came to change the HDZ and then the whole of Croatia proved to be correct. He managed to change Croatia, far worse than it was before. And here we see, among other things, as my colleague Pernar mentioned, that here today Lex Agrokor supports, say, a party of HNS that collected signatures to bring down the government because of Lex Agrokor. They came to us in the Living Wall and said, "Let's sign the collapse of the government." Today your HNS is the biggest... Agrocora and they're spilling our minds about some kind of success of that law, which is really not only inconclusive but also infuriating. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They say the smart guys in the parliamentary majority didn't have the time it was all in a hurry, we had to think it was a gunman's movie, who's going to pull the gun faster and why don't you apply that same speed to the Oil? For what? Why isn't Lex Agrokor applied to the Oil? As you comment on your success, your law when VAT revenues fell by 14% in August, industrial production dropped by 11th month in a row, public debt rose again to record levels. Is there perhaps the consequences of all your successes that you're drilling into your chest here? He says what, it was stolen, so it wasn't stolen at the expense of the state. No kuna has given us state. So the logic is that if it's stolen in private companies it's allowed to steal. Well, is stealing a theft or is there a allowed theft and illegal theft? The consequences of the story of Agrokor, lex Agrokor are multiple, very harmful, will be long and completely unpredictable. What will be the greatest echo of all of what you gentlemen of HDZ have done will be the day your government falls and then your mother whines. Then, like Polancec and Cobankovici, Vidosevici, Karamarko, Sanader, you will have to face the truth at last. You are now protected for another year and 10 months if this government endures. But there's gonna be time for things to get out of hand. And it is in your best interest that this and the commission be established as soon as possible. This may at least relieve some of the damage that will surely come for you. Because here you need to clean up the bilge, the swamp one that would take a whole team of judges and years of work to clear it all up, and it's moving. Zagreb's County State Attorney dealt with Agrokor but when she conditioned that the Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic was also questioned, the case was taken away and transferred to the USKOK, which quickly covered up the whole thing. It will need to answer questions not only from 2017 but also from 2015 and 2013 and 2009 and 2006. In 2009, the state audit found irregularities in Agrokor and continued to lend loans to state banks, ministries, subsidies, Christmas loans to HBOR, the Adriatic Bank. Debts have continued towards state institutions such as HEP, such as CERP, etc. There were transfers between Agrokor and the government, so little Mr. Governor was governor, and then he went to Agrokor again, so we have a minister of finance coming from Agrokor. That's all the questions they're gonna have to answer. I know that you now feel little gods that no one can bother you with this debate and think what you care about for 28 years we're here, we'll be another 28 years. But you won't. If today only young people voted up to 35 years of age, the Living Wall would have won the election smoothly, and you know it, it would have gotten you and the SDP together. You can plan a big coalition. And our time is coming, the time of change in Croatia is coming. And it's time for you to start acting responsibly and figure out what you've been doing, to make it come to your senses. And I repeat once again, your best route is here, and now you're about to begin. Accept the draft parliamentary investigative committee on Agrokor and take a new path, through truth, through honesty and morality in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101382	First replica Mr. Pernar, he's not losing his right. The second line has a Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101383	I thank Mr. Vice President, I don't know what has become so interesting now that the CNS has suddenly become so interesting, as the people say, neither onion has eaten nor onion smells. So, we didn't participate, we didn't implement, we gave what was most needed at a given time, and that's the political framework. At some point we were giving amendments and said something had to be done, that we recognized we were consensual, colleagues who were sitting back then, I wasn't. If these amendments had been accepted, we would have probably supported that law, anyway. I think that here is actually the biggest problem of some of what they've gone crazy about, because of some of their personal ambitions, it's scary to even think, some of which the clubs have halved, the MPs have gone, they'd rather have new choices to go on, under the carpet and go on with new people. And I don't want to think at all that someone wants to achieve their political goals through such an important and important issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101384	Thank you, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101385	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And in some ways I feel sorry for you. It's the worst feeling a man can feel, almost no longer feel angry with you for everything you've done. You signed an HNS contract in 2016 coalition that you will never coalition with HDZ, although it was done by MOST, then you did it and now your masters will chew you up and spit you out and you will disappear from politics. It's basically inevitable, and maybe that's some good consequence of this whole circus that we have around Les Agrokor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101386	Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101387	Thank you, Vice President, my microphone is not active. Here it is. Mr. Bunjac, what kind of message is he sending to the Croatian public the ruling HDZ-led coalition when he is making it impossible to form any commission on Agrokor which would establish certain facts and then offer us as an alternative the book of Mrs. Dalic, as the official truth of what happened and with its presence yesterday at the promotion of that book actually stand behind what was written there. Making it impossible for all of us to come to the right facts through a committee. What kind of message does the ruling coalition send us like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101388	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101389	Mr. Bunjevac, you have the right to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101390	What's that...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101391	I haven't given you my word yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101392	So what kind of message he's sending us. Well, the message sends us that all of those former government officials who are immersed in illegality and crime are writing books, so that means some sort of spare interest, so when you fall into politics, then you have to have an alibi, so you write a book, you have, say, a writer Ivo Sanader, he's also a great writer, famous, and then you have Vladimir Shakespeare, too, these are all the famous literary works that will enter the anthology of Croatian literature. We also expect that these works will be taught in lectures in schools, these are very educational things, I'm sure that the book did not buy the morning paper to sell it in a million-dollar story, was translated into at least 50 languages, but here's the morning paper solved it by a brief procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101393	Thank you, too. We're done with the replicas. Mr. Tomislav Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101394	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, when I listen to these discussions, I have to admit, and it's really not because I'm part of the ruling majority, that I'm really glad that this government is in power, that it's not some who speak in this House. Because that amount of irresponsibility, misinformation, false information, comparing the incomparable that I've heard here is just amazing. And that's why, really, I'm glad that this government is in that position, not some of them who throw themselves around here with everything and everything. Anyway, I've structured a debate over a few points, the first point is context. It means context. We know that Agrokor has been growing gradually over the decades, developing its manufacturing activity, wholesale retailing, and so on, and it worked one way or another. Problems with Agrogor, the real problems begin as counterpart Shuker said after 2012, so then the borrowings become long-term unsustainable, then the controls disappear, then the exchange rate explodes, etc. At a time when the SDP was in power. It is the SDP who has been criticising the provisions of this law all along and who has done everything and who has done everything, and not just them, that no settlement can come. What was the situation last year at the 3rd and 4th months? We said something about it. So the company was de facto insolvent, so we're talking about 3 billion kuna blocks, I'm talking about the work that's already started and the situation that literally there were 6 kunas in the account. in this regard, there were several solutions available. The first solution proposed by the SDP is bankruptcy. Now, what does bankruptcy mean? So for that we need to show our citizens very plastically, very simple. In the event of bankruptcy, the settlement is based on the creditor's bankruptcy law, which is already in order, etc. In the end, suppliers would come in line and, as counterpart Bačić said, on average, only 4% of small suppliers settle in the bankruptcy process, as before all those with special rights, etc. So that's what it's supposed to say, if there were 96% of small suppliers, which are fully settled, of the OPG, wouldn't be, most likely wouldn't have been calmed down. And that should be said, so in those words, it means very simply what it would mean. Secondly, the launch of bankruptcy with so many related societies, with different seats, in different commercial courts would lead to chaos, would lead to chaos, our judiciary has no experience with such great actions and, of course, that would be extended and the question to end all together in the end. Also, a colleague of Bunjac spoke as time does not matter, it shows that some colleagues in this assembly do not know at all what the economy, the market, how it works, it is time and how important it is. In a situation where 3 billion kunas have been blocked, in a situation where the executions have already begun on the property, the time for a few months to pass, perhaps up to 6 months to pass a new bankruptcy law or to amend or amend a bankruptcy law would not be much left of Agrokor. And as I said exactly those who were most threatened there were who had the least instruments of protection and these are small farmers, the OPGs would certainly have gone the worst, and here they went the best completely small suppliers calmed down, that's to say. So all those alternatives that were proposed would actually be chaos for that little man that my colleague Bulj and the rest of the Bridge were very, very worried about, and in practice, we see what fate would be for them. Another variant, which some at the time advocated when they were in the government concerned entry into the company, settlement of debts and so on, settlement of debts by the state, etc., that variant would load billions and billions of kunas to taxpayers, precisely what they are now up against at that time fighting in some other cases. So I see very much contradiction here, which was not in line with the rules on the state support of the European Union, the question to end and how much new public debt would be charged to Croatian citizens. What does a greater public debt mean? It should also be shown very concretely. Greater public debt means a decline in credit rating, which means higher interest rates for all citizens of this country. So the interest rates that are due to the government's economic policy are reduced by economic growth, the growth of credit ratings in case what those who are now trying to attack this law are accepted, and the whole bargaining process would just lead to that little man getting hurt the worst, and that's what needs to be said. And that is that this tax payer law was the most convincing solution. As far as the process itself is concerned, so what's the key thing is the settlement, so the deal was concluded by more than 80% of the creditors confirmed it. The High Court of Commerce rejected all complaints and she's confirmed. These creditors concluded that this procedure was for their benefit, it is they, and it is these financial institutions that are often mentioned here as the buglers had to endure most of the debt write-offs, if I am not cheating on the 2.2 billion euros, that is, they, on the one hand, are the write-offs, on the other hand, the small suppliers of the OPGs quite calmed down. And that's what needs to be pointed out. And on the one hand, these creditors have now entered the ownership structure, partly those who were in debt, in part those who were willing to jump in when others were not and they are the owners. It's their money that went to the consultants. On the other hand, colleagues from the Living Wall who are otherwise strongly against financial funds and banks and financial institutions are now very concerned that these financial institutions have paid a certain amount to consultants and believe that this is too much. So we now have a situation to take care of the Living Wall's financial institutions, which is phenomenal. I have to admit, it's something I really didn't expect to see in this assembly. Anyway, so as far as that goes, I think things are clear, the vast majority of the believers have confirmed that they needed these services, they signed a deal, jobs have been saved, and as counterpart Pernar admitted in his debate, this is exactly the solution, or the answer to the replica, exactly the solution that was most favourable to the believers. My colleague Pernar said this here, perhaps he is unaware of what he said, but my colleague Pernar said it was just a solution with the law of extraordinary administration that brought the least harm to the believers, and the damage would certainly have happened because the simple claims were greater than the property. So you could all calm down, so again elemental logic just needs to know how to add up 2 and 2. As far as the law on the investigative committee is concerned, so that's not the question I want this, whether I want it, etc. It's a matter of law, so Article 4. The law on investigative committees. The investigation committee cannot be established on the issues in which the court proceedings are initiated for so long as the proceedings are pending. So, we have a pending procedure, an investigation is under way, and this investigation should be allowed to go on its own during, on the other hand, it does not mean that there are no instruments for political debate on this, there are, parliamentary committees that are open to the public, there are plenary sessions. Therefore, if the opposition wants to investigate, if the opposition wants to argue, some things bring out to clean up they have many of these possibilities. The other thing is that they've been using those opportunities so far to collect cheap political points. What they didn't hear about, means what the situation of Agrokor, which were really real possibilities, what the possibilities of the development of Agrokor further, means how much further integrated it can be, how some costs should be cut, etc. We didn't hear any of these discussions that were actually a measure of things, we just heard a set of attempts at collecting, but a failed attempt at collecting political points but without any real point without anything content to talk about, and then it came down to the fact that we have to keep the figures and arguments we have to keep repeating that they don't want to hear. Also, there were mentions of a certain, yet fellow Bernardic mentioned some conspiracy theories, so he mentioned the state's attorney's office, the state's attorney's shift, etc., so the state's attorney was not appointed to him, but when he spoke of the composition of the state's attorney's office, so the composition of the USKOK is also.../incomprehensible/... same to today. So, if he's already talking about the DORH personnel solutions, I don't see how he sees a big conspiracy here when the same people at USKOK are working today who worked a year ago and who rejected the reports they filed and clearly claimed there was no criminal part of the consultants. So to shorten the story, this was about one of the most complex restructurings in the history of practically Europe, it was conducted in the circumstances in which it was carried out, maybe something could have been more transparent, but in that situation where every day is important, when the shelves are empty, it simply couldn't be thought that way and the result was achieved. The result, from the state budget, is that Agrokor was not recovered, the creditors signed the deal, the vast majority of the creditors were satisfied and suppliers, the OPGs, all those in that chain, connected to Agrokor were satisfied. And calm down. What is particularly important, which prevented the recession and enabled long-term survival of our agriculture and so on. So we have something that's successful, and on the other hand we have just a collection of cheap points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101395	Thank you, too. Mr Tomislav Klaric has his first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101396	Dear fellow Sokol, you have prepared for this debate, the figures and the arguments you have repeatedly repeated, and here things are clear. They are clear to the Croatian people, they are clear to all of us. Jobs have been saved, the company continues to operate, and it is clear to the promoters. And the proof that that's the case is that they're not here. There's not a single SDP agent here. There is no God Petrov here, the chief initiator of these activities. This is purely politics. So Lex Agrokor got the results. Jobs were saved, taxpayers, citizens of the Republic of Croatia did not cost a single lip, and the cry for those who spent it on Mrs. Martin Dalic, for the people who were ready to make decisions at that time, is an insult to the honor and dignity of the man. And I wish there were more people like that in the Republic of Croatia who are willing to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101397	Thank you, Mr. Claric. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101398	Thank you very much. Well, yes, colleague Klaric, but that's not the first time the SDP's ever done it. Here last week we had an extremely important debate on the future of all Croatian citizens, on pension reform, and there was not a single SDP representative in the Assembly as well as today. I think that says enough about who cares about the citizens and who doesn't care about the citizens. And as for my colleagues, Petrov, I don't know what to tell you. It has been said that there are meetings, some of these meetings have obviously become very long, but perhaps a colleague of Petrov does not want to explore himself after all. Maybe that's what this is about. I don't know. That's a very good question, but actually now, a joke aside, shows how insecure this whole initiative is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101399	Mr. Grmoya has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101400	Article 238, given that one representative is constantly mentioned, means I call on HDZ colleagues to support the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, and the first witness on the Committee will be Bozo Petrov, and the second one, Andrej Plenkovic. The other Andrej Plenkovic. First Bozo Petrov and second Andrej Plenkovic. Support the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101401	Not getting into the content, I still have to give you Mr. Grumoja, but I still have to give you a heads-up. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101402	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Sokola. Yes, in 2016, rarely in financial circles actually controlled the crisis in Agrokor, rare, only there in 2017, when the thing actually caught on, what was left for the government? She had three options. The first is to approve EUR 300 million to Mr Todorov, i.e. to nationalise a part of the company, something about which Mrs Dalic wrote in the book about Mr Petrov, and the third was to adopt a legal framework, and this legal framework was in fact a proposal on the procedure of the extraordinary management in commercial societies of systemic importance for the Republic of Croatia, I speak systemically because some do not understand and say why it does not apply to other companies. And that's actually true. The fact is also that the Constitutional Court has declared Lex Agrokor constitutional, and the European Parliament and the Council of Europe have actually accepted this as an insolvent law... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You took away from me at the beginning of 10 seconds and let me finish these 10 seconds because of the excess of the answer itself. Thank you. No, it's not...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101403	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Babic. Mr. Babic, I'd listen to you, I'd listen to you all night but I'll have to give you a warning. No, I have to treat everyone the same way. Excuse me. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101404	Thank you very much. Well, that fellow Babic, I agree it's easy to be smart today, and that dispersion of the ex-post mind, we see it all the time. But there's one thing I'm more worried about, it really seems to me that some people might prefer it, that things went to hell, means they weren't calm suppliers, that they weren't kept jobs, that the state hadn't been in charge of those 2.3 billion kunas, because it would be just the beginning that's safe, just so they could criticize the government further. And that's what I'm worried about. The question is, who actually cares about the public interest, who is concerned about the interests of the citizens and who is willing to jeopardize their pressures, media performances and who wanted to compromise both the settlement process and all this is achieved here. And that's what the problem is. So, we really need to start worrying as politicians about the public interest, especially some, not about how to destroy everything, harm the state, tax bonds, just to get a few percent in the polls.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101405	Thank you. Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101406	Thank you very much, Agent Falcon. So you're saying that in Agrokor it's all clear, that it was, therefore, all transparent, please tell me, which is why Russian State Prosecutor Čauka, on October 19th, so 11 days ago he visited Zagreb and what he was talking about with Mr Drazen Jelenić, did they perhaps discuss the football game Russia-Croatian or were they discussing crime in Agrokor? And if they talked about the crime in Agrokor which they specifically spoke about in detail, what information was exchanged and what would be the consequences of that visit? Therefore, if the Russian State Prosecutor comes to Zagreb to clear up the crime around Agrokor, I think the parliamentary investigation committee would be very necessary. So here, please comment on this with the light of this, that is, Lex Agrokor is a grandiose legal success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101407	Mr. Sokol's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101408	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Bunjac, I don't really know why the Russian State Prosecutor came to Croatia, maybe he knows his colleague Pernar, he often visits Russia, so maybe he has that information. But what matters is where he came from. So he didn't come to talk to you or me, but he followed the procedure and went to talk to the authorities and that's the State's Attorney's Office. We know that the State's Attorney's Office is conducting a procedure or a judicial procedure is being conducted. He is in the stage of an investigation involving Mr. Todorovic. As for this second part, the State's Attorney General rejected the application and found that there was nothing illegal in the sense of a criminal offence related to these consulting services. So, this is exactly what you said you were giving for the right of what we've been saying all along, which is, we need to release institutions, respected laws and give them to do their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101409	Mrs. Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Falcon, today's disclosure, as you yourself said, I'm going to warn you of three things. First, today we learned that the Living Wall took care of banks, that he didn't care so much about what would happen to small suppliers and that he was not interested in the results of the law at all. Secondly, we have achieved another success, which is that today the level of reading in the Republic of Croatia has increased because obviously everyone in this assembly has at least partially read one book. And thirdly, we returned in 2015 and we recalled the Oilic for which today some colleagues are calling for exactly the application of a law they speak of on the other hand that is not good at all, which is that the biggest guarantees in Ulanik were issued on the eve of the parliamentary elections in 2015 when the SDP was in power, and as I recall, the IDS gave it a good transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101411	Mr. Sokol's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101412	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you are, colleague Glavak. You've been doing a great summation of this, indeed. Those who represent themselves as fighters for a small man, workers, farmers, etc. They take care of money from financial institutions, and those financial institutions willingly, because again for the 100th time, they signed the deal a long time ago. So they take care of financial institutions that aren't able to take care of themselves. Until, on the other hand, whom my colleague Pernar admitted would have suffered most if no such legal framework had occurred, they are not concerned at all, and these are small suppliers, OPGs, etc. So, yeah, I find that really fascinating. As for state guarantees, etc. Yes, we've heard from the opposition side to mention the government has given state guarantees. But which government? So 80% of the Uljanic state guarantees were given by the government headed by the SDP and it needs to be repeated 100 times.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101413	Thank you very much, Mr. Falcon. Mr. Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101414	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have not yet welcomed fellow Petrov, even though he was announced three hours ago. But good. Okay. As far as your debate is concerned, I fully support it because one scientist says, stay away from the negative people because they have problems with every solution. And we have a situation today that those who started the initiative simply didn't have them, they ran away. So what are these ways, instead of standing here and defending your... Zero, no one's here except here's a colleague who's almost never called except as a proposer. [[You don't understand.]] They just don't have an answer. They don't even have answers to what they wrote. They're trying something, but they almost didn't do anything. What did they want with the committees? I guess they wanted to ask us what you were thinking in those moments because Agrokor as a problem was probably channeled and solved? What else can I do on the committee? They were going to ask you...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101415	Time, time. But I see you, you are here. Confirmation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101416	Warn Mr. Boric that the proposer's representative is present and sits there all the time, but now I'm going to have to go out because I'm reporting live on RTL TV.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101417	Based on the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101418	238.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101419	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, this is Mr. Grmoya. Now he's gonna have to leave because he has to go make a statement for RTL, so there won't be anyone. But now he's here, and in this case Mr. Grmoya is right. Here you go, Mr. Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101420	Well, thank you very much. So that fellow Boric, I'm glad you pointed out... Strong negativity that has been released into the media for the last year and a half on this subject. But I don't think it's just negativity. It seems to me that there have been media pressures that have gone on purpose to prevent a settlement regardless of all the consequences that this would have caused for the Croatian economy and that is what is not good. As I said in my debate, we have a situation that, unfortunately, some of the private interests of certain groups are more important than achieving a solution that my colleague Pernar said is best or least bad given the circumstances for all believers. And I repeat again. The best solution that could have been achieved under the given circumstances by the OPG suppliers calmed down and the rest suffered the least losses they could bear. And that's what's positive despite all the negativity and all those who wanted the whole process to go down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101421	Thank you, too. And finally Mrs. Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101422	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague, here we are to sublime. Please, since we have broken up the work of the Ex-Legal Investigation Commission when the conditions for this were met, after which today's motion for today's decision for the second time tried to re-establish the Research Commission. I ask you to explain Article 4 to them one more time. The law on investigating committees and why we, as the HDZ Club, do not agree to the establishment of an investigative committee, which is because we are legalists, because we respect the law, not because we fear them and their politics on those committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101423	Thank you. Mr. Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101424	Thank you, colleague Jelkovac. Well, I'll tell them one more time, even though I said so in the debate. So the Commission of Investigation cannot be established on the issues on which the court proceedings have been initiated as long as the proceedings are under way. If it is raised on a matter whose research has previously been established, it will cease to work. When the court proceedings begin, the time of the adoption of the law was that it was then an investigative judge and the role was taken over by the State's attorney and, in that sense, it was crucial under the Law on Criminal Procedure of Article 17 which states that the criminal proceedings begin with the power of the decision on the conduct of the investigation, so the investigation was launched, the decision to carry out the investigation became final, the criminal proceedings were initiated and the assumptions of the Commission's law were fulfilled in that sense, Article 4. that the commission would cease to work. That's quite clear. But we have a situation here that even after that first commission in the new proposal is again proposed, establishing a commission exactly at the points in which the criminal proceedings are being conducted, which means that some are not exactly put to reading themselves, but only copy-passes their proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101425	Time... I apologize, my mistake, let's move on. Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome all the viewers who follow us on television and radio. We have witnessed the past few days of a coordinated action, in an attempt to rescue the members of the BORG group, and we saw yesterday that a book promotion was held. And this group of BORGs is up to their necks dirty in the Agrokor case and watch where they chose a place to promote a book? To a clean institution called the National and University Library. There, the main promoter of the book was the governor of the Croatian National Bank, which in the past year and a half, means in 2017 and in the first half of 2018, he made a loss of 3 billion kuna, dear citizens, I repeat again, he made a loss of 3 billion and 800 million kuna, and you see that society actually there, all of them fit. And the political blessing of yesterday's presentation was given by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, who apparently encourages such people and such functions, and why? Well, obviously he owes them, they're, when we look at him a little more visible there, the people who were at the promotion of that book, we see that this BORG group is very much bigger than he came up with at first. They brought him and Martin Dalic and Vujčić and the others to power, and now he has to protect them, he didn't want to. Mr. Vice President, you're holding a session in the halls, it's said that a particular party of the Parliament is two weeks instead of a week, apparently, I don't know if it's true, the HDZ should be denied, and apparently every HDZ member will get a book from Martina Dalic, and it takes a little more time, two weeks for everyone to read, and then we'll start working again, I don't know if that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101427	Mr. Lovrinović, with all due respect, but you can't talk to me while I'm sitting here, after that, when I get there, then you'll ask me and I'll answer you when I'm on the bench, and while I'm here, I can't answer you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101428	Well, you could have done it eventually, but okay, but back to the scale of things now, let's start with Lex Agrokora. Dear citizens, you know that I am on behalf of the party to change Croatia strongly opposed the law and listening to legal experts, leading in the country, who said it was a harmful law, that it was written for a small group, an interested group and we voted against it. And you all know it. But it was loudly spoken, no, no, it's the only law, what bankruptcy, so it's going to fail, etc. Why they didn't want to go through bankruptcy with the reshuffle, to be conducted by the court, but it was run by the court, and here it was run by an extraordinary administration, and when it was run by an extraordinary administration, then you can do what was done to break 5 hundred million kunas, meaning clientelistic connections, they divided and set up jobs for each other that worked there. Today nobody wonders why that first Alvarez, a consultant who came expressly from Croatia, talked to some top managers from Agrokor who said when that man came and when you talked to him, with his team, they were top professionals, they knew everything. Well, he obviously didn't fit, you know, because he would have discovered things that were bad and he was delivered and escorted. But they brought in, Mrs. Dalic came in, Mr. Ramljak came in, and then there was a BORG group that was for 500 million kunas, so they came up with each other and they designed, they gave jobs, so it's written, so it's said, they set up jobs to find a solution. Now, the way things are going. The whole story has turned into one geostrategic, geopolitical battle, geoeconomic, on one side of America's interests, on the other side of the Russian interests. And you dear citizens remember that I was the first one in this House to talk about it. And while they watched who would master most of the Agrokor, no one had a fight for Croatian interests. I warned about the concession problem, which will be with PICs in Slavonia and Baranja. We see today that this has happened, they will be controlled so let's put it that way by the Russian bank. Meanwhile, the Law on concessions has changed where only one article has been said to be able to extend the concession, i.e. to the company's restructuring company, such as Agrokor. So everything was being set up to implement what needed to be carried out. So, I repeat, for Croatian interests, no one fought about Agrokor in that case. But here's the people who are acting in power, they say, what you say that we didn't do it all would have failed, this was successfully solved, and this is a brilliant story in recent Croatian history. The real thesis is that Agrokor's problem is completed and successfully solved. Nothing's been solved here, gentlemen. By January, the moratorium is on payments, therefore, you will see when obligations take place, on the other hand, when lawsuits begin, when judgments come, we don't even know, these are uncertain things, and there is a strong likelihood that the damage will be great, and most likely will fall on the back of all of us taxpayers. Furthermore, no kuna is said to be and will not be paid by the taxpayer, so that is a pure lie. HBOR approved over 300 million kn of credit and then, the current finance minister directly approved it there. And therefore, that loan is lost, we have already lost. Who else has lost? They lost mandatory pension funds containing insurance, future pensioners and only in the case of Ledo, those mandatory pension funds were lost, they lost public money, so the money of people saving for pensions, they lost more than 600 million kn. I don't have time to keep counting, so you can see that's not true. These are the exact facts, because we in the party change Croatia, we don't like to upload data from websites, impressions, we speak argumentically. Next, what else is there to say? However, you see, says Ivica Todorovic has asked 2 billion kn to save Agrokor and says we have rejected it etc. etc. That, however, let's see what finally happened in this whole story? Agrokor is unnecessarily in charge regardless of whose is now, which is unnecessary for at least a million and a half euros. Started with the Knighthead Fund of the American and beyond. 500 million kunas were paid to consultants, etc. etc. And we see what the final result is. A deal was reached the other day, recognised by the High Court of Commerce, however, here I have a letter, which I have sent today to the Prime Minister, the President of the State, the Parliament and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, where I am asking and it is good that I am now saying this because otherwise I have been blocked by the arguments, because I have asked the Prime Minister, you see the Russian side has taken out peaks, with a country of 30,000 hectares, with a PPD company has concluded a long-standing agreement on imports of gas from Russia. They'll take over most of Putin's petrochemicals, so they went deep into the economic structure and I asked the president to answer me, I'm gonna have to... within a month, whether he consulted the EU leadership, the Commission, as an EU decision on sanctions against Russia was made in 2014. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did he inform anyone there, as far as this side has entered the economic system, are what they suggested, not, therefore, that you gentlemen are not discussing here. What is more important to stress here, it is still important to stress that Agrokor's case is talking about the history of the Croatian state and is talking about that a group of people, who have been in this Croatian for 20 years, want to wash their cheeks today, to save it, to continue to stare at Croatia. You see, we have to make a final decision, I invite you citizens, over 700 thousand of you who don't go to elections, who have been disgusted by politics for these reasons, but they count that you will never go to elections. If you go to the election, we will move this political plough, which has disgusted both you and all of us and is forcing our children to flee from Croatia. If you go to the elections, which is the key thing, which must happen in Croatia, then there will only be an application, and only then will we open the issue of Agrokor and everything else in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101429	Thank you very much, we have, above all, one violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs. Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although you have responded yourself, colleague Lovrinović.../Intruder Radin: You must say... That's what it says. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 238. Thank you very much for reminding me of the article. 238nd colleague Lovrinović, you are above all a pedagogal, which I am beginning to doubt, a message to you for what you have told the MPs, respect if you want to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101431	Okay. Let's move on. Replica Mr Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101432	Thank you very much, MP Lovrinović, you said, that the borg group did not consult experts, not only did they not consult experts, but they laughed at them, those e-mails show you, let's say you had Mr. Miladin's opinion there, Mrs. Garasic they were all proven, independent economic experts, they laughed out of it. And you know what they said? We don't need experts, we work on the Stalinist model. We're Stalinists. He's a good Stalinism God gave him. Now how much does Stalinism and God have to do with it, maybe because Stalin went to school as a young man for a priest, so there it is, but the combination is really very unusual. It is the party, which calls for some Christian values, democratic ones, and then organizes a permanent group that laughs with economic experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101433	Mr. Lovirnović, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101434	Thank you, Mr. Bunjac, my colleague, for asking. You see, they accused Ivica Todorovic and his crime team and formed a group that needs to be investigated and sanctioned, and that group is in fact doing criminal activity in a much shorter time, half a billion kn is being stretched out. Now you see, now they say it's almost the case and imagine in the whole, biggest affair and Agrokor and hotmail, in the end no one's been punished, sanctioned and no one's been jailed. And when we know that this country was stolen from us, it was stolen by stakeholders like the Borg who stole it from the hands of the people of the citizens, and many of them laid down their lives and wounded, fighting for it. So let's blow this political plough at last.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101435	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101436	Thank you very much. A colleague of Lovrinović, you said an introductory sentence that someone defiled the NSB or the library because he held a presentation or promoted his book. It's hard to expect from you as a professor that you're going to say it exactly because you've promoted or presented some books in your own time, and that's a colleague from HDZ, a break of false prophecy. Remember, you even wrote the preface in that book? ... It is, in the European House, no matter where. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Whether it's a message to people, gentlemen, there are some who are more valuable and laughing and there are some who are not allowed to do anything about it. Because they immediately by their appearance are negative because... Something, I think. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You wouldn't expect that from a man, yet you're a professor. And you were also at the book presentation, I don't know, "Corruption Mafia" where you interpreted what bankruptcy means, one fellow journalist. And now you're pushing for that bankruptcy right now, Agrokor. [[Intruder Reiner: Time is Mr. Boric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101437	Mr. Lovrinovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101438	I read one comment today, says the best place for such a promotion was to be Remetian because no one there has ever promoted a book. And I really don't know, I'm not sure, maybe it's, maybe it's not, but maybe if people knew, maybe they'd do it for that reason. Look, some things are simple and some people don't fit somewhere and it's not the place for some people. That's what we finally have to say. If the laws are immoral, we don't have to stick to them and if people have made certain groups, what they've done, then they don't belong where they don't belong. So you finally need to establish order in this country and you're afraid of it all. This Borg group is shaking. Why? Because he knows he'll be answering soon enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101439	Thank you. The time of Mrs. Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101440	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A colleague of Lovrinović's, six kunas were on the bill. Agrokora's bankruptcy could bring a cascade wave of at least 70 bankruptcys, there was no liquidity. You're an expert, have you given any solution? Did you suggest anything? I beg you to tell me what you would do? When you're just teaching about what wasn't right. And something that still surprises me, you know very well, and it also says in our Constitution that private property is inalienable. So the people who own the company are the ones who loaned the company the most money, i.e. to Ivica Todorovic. So neither you nor I are yours nor my company. Neither did the state therefore, nor did the taxpayers pay a single lip.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101441	Answer, Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101442	Dear colleagues. There's no company, you're not an economist, so I understand that, you've been dealing with the PR, but these are serious things, there's no company that would survive you sitting on her account to pay off all her debts right now. None of them would survive in either Croatia or anywhere. So you're obviously not aware of what you're saying, are you? So the thing here is very, very simple. You cut the axe at a certain point and said this should be done instead of helping this company and it now seems that it has been put on its feet but I have warned you how much Croatia will lose land concessions in Slavonia and Baranja and all other problems. About 2.5 - 3,000 workers have already come out of Agrokor for the past months and I have only talked about the solutions here for concrete past months, so read the stenograms of my discussions. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101443	... Where are we, which one? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We lost the replicated paper. Who else answered the line? And Mr. Sagar, yes. I could have guessed, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101444	Well, Vice President, I could have assumed this was a compliment for me to answer. Dear colleague Lovrinović, you have gone one step further. And that's what I'm curious about now, of course this time has passed whether it will be investigative or not depends on colleagues from HDZ. But what now? The state, no company can be above the interest of the state, no company. And Agrokor shouldn't have been in front of the state's interests either. And what it shows, and the state is made up of its institutions, and this case will show us that the institutions have not done their work from financial to judgment because the question is how independent our judiciary is and it should be independent of solving these things. And now you're asking a question in the future, be careful, while you have 160 billion expenditures from public companies, while you have 50 billion kuna in public procurement from that bagatel supply, while you have the funding of political parties to donations until then I doubt these institutions of this country will stop this as it says in the breakdown of the social capitalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101445	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101446	You, Comrade Sagar, are indeed making good arguments, that is to say, wondering what will be next. I don't care about this current ruling coalition, you see, it's about maintaining this thin majority, trading, and so it's her job. What's going to happen to Agrokora, to the shipyards, and that's not what she's interested in, because she's leaving it to the free market. She's looking for strategic partners who are mostly speculators and she's not interested in the system solutions. But look again, no one in this country has in a shorter time than a year and a half made a historic loss of 3 billion $800 million as the CNB did. Agrokor didn't do it either, you see. And rather than raise that question, to respond to the government, the Prime Minister, no, such people lead the promotions. They teach us lessons and tell us what to do in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101447	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. And now he has the word Mr. Stephen Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101448	Thank you, Vice President. There's really no need then, but there's been so much said, but since the HNS called something, I have an obligation to explain something a little bit more. In fact, it's always the best way to think straight. The best general is always after the battle. And that's what I think is one constant that's going through these discussions right now because now everybody knows everything and how best. I already mentioned it once, and I'll do it again. When this law was passed, we were part of the opposition, I think it's clear to everyone. We from that position recognized the need to do something. The thing couldn't have been left to the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101449	I'm sorry, they're nagging me from the bench. Will you tell me what this is about, Mr. Babic? Excuse me. ... There was no application. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] There's a report now. Have we solved the problem? Mr. Curly, move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101450	I don't know anymore. Yeah. ... No problem. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So we were at the time in opposition, which is clear to everyone and from this opposition, colleagues and were constructive and we proposed certain amendments because we recognized the need to do something. You can't sit around and let it all go to waste. Then, at some point, by giving perhaps the greatest blow to ourselves, we took responsibility and supported the government and allowed the law to continue to be implemented. Because you know that creditors weren't willing to borrow, give money until political stability is secured. I know that it's hard for some people because they've already tensed that I have to say so healthy peasantly in the election, to change my club composition, to those people who went to replace them, even if it meant that 100 thousand people were out of work. That's not our problem. Who's to blame? And then, in that context, they might also see HNS as their own culprit, so why didn't it happen? They say that in the work especially public, social and political, you should always have some order of priorities, so always the first state, and then you can talk about your community locally, and then we can talk about pauses, and only then individuals. And when this first two is fulfilled then the interests of the individual are absolutely legitimate within it all. Of course, the problem is when you're just looking at the last one. But if everything ever fits, it might be the most ideal solution. I already said in front of the club, we hear all kinds of reasons that someone imagines taking a few more swears to banks, to financial institutions. My colleague Sokol registered it very well and now we're going to defend them, and they're usually the greatest evil in some. But what it really means is that it was also the other private company that was financed by private money. Obviously, the law could have been better. The vice president paid for that one today. The commissioner paid for that one today. In that context, it must be that ex-post mind, these generals are aware of it. Political responsibility was paid and it was clear to everyone. It's unnecessary whether I agree, no one can say it's good, on this whole procedure that she threw away one stain she shouldn't have. But we can't forget about a tree and concentrate on that tree in front of us, so even if the whole forest choices, that's what we don't have. When we talk about money, I haven't heard a single believer say I don't want it, that it's too big an amount of money to come out of their pocket. It would absolutely be legitimate and question it. As they keep quiet to me, it's not clear motives for those who attack it, unless we stop at some human motives of jealousy, envy, someone imagine making money on something as fates, other people living worse I work here for 10 times, 100 times less money, I'll never see that kind of money, and neither will they. So these are some human-like little passions. And when we talk about these amounts to me it's more important, you know one guilty business decision can cost far more and be far more extensive than any expense that's been spent outside. This, I would like to point out that this proposal for a commission is nothing more than a process of removing the responsibility of the proposing who participated in this and again an attempt to impose political issues that will bring nothing new and no benefit to the citizens or employees of the concerts. Because I haven't heard a single argument here today that will contribute to the improvement of our citizens, employees or our companies, not one. And then why all this? We will not participate in this I have said for these reasons, of course, from these formal ones where we are again intertwined with the state institutions that are further investigating and where we had some things already in the previous commission that stopped, did not end with work etc. It's final. I think this topic that will continue to be current whether we have this commission or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101451	Thank you very much. And now we've got at the end in front of the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the Power final. Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101452	Thank you very much Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, to know what happened in Agrokor, it is sufficient that the mentor of the whole story was Borislav Škegro, king of the robbery and privatisation in the late 1990s, which took place according to the next model. A company that has problems is found, which has debts and then moves hostile takeovers, shares of the company crash into indemnity, then these shares are bought for very small amounts, unreally low, when the former owners break down, then the value of the company continues to be resold. It is not a problem that criminal groups would do it or that vulture funds would do it to which, at the end of the day and the basic purpose, their task, at least according to the theory of the economy, but the problem is that it was the very top of the state government led by Mr. BORG, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. Their goal was to bring down the Agrockor shares, which they succeeded, they are today at 5% of the values they were compared to March 2017 and share with the BORGs and some small companies to hand over to the Americans. Only one small problem has arisen, a problem that has become large over time, which is that Mr. Ramljak imagined that he would exclude Russia's Sberbank, which sought 1.1 billion euros from the whole process. He also filed legal proceedings to shut down the Russians. The moment the Russians could not be excluded, when it became clear that they would return to the settlement process, Mr. Ramljak had to resign, and together with him he had to resign and his mentor Mrs. Dalic. And that's the taste of the whole story. However, for the comfort of Mrs. Dalic and their BORGs, they remained high fees from consulting contracts that were never realised, not one minute of consultation was made. 500 or 700 billion kuna with VAT, I don't know how many of these consultations were drawn from Agrokor, it was divided by the BORGs, it was divided by HDZ politicians, probably in white bags, as it has been until now. In any orderly, civilised, normal country in the world, the whole group, together with its employers, would be behind bars, will be processed, and in Croatia is celebrated as a literary new colony that has the right to usurp the National and University Library and sell my mind there that they have done something useful for the Croatian economy, saved the company, have successful economic indicators, and I will tell you again. The VAT revenues in August fell by 14%, industrial production fell 11 months in a row, the public debt was never higher, amounting to 300 billion kuna, nothing in Agrokor was resolved because stocks were still almost and worthless, cancellations were divided, the Russian state's attorney investigated the whole thing, is being conducted, therefore, the investigation of the DORH, because you did nothing but a simple buy of time to at least until your mandates were avoided by the most difficult, and which will inevitably follow, and this is a criminal persecution. You're avoiding the truth, you've proven it countless times, and Mr. Cvitan's shift and Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic's shift, and by changing Parliament's Rules of Procedure and changing, by suffocating the work of the Assembly's investigative commission, so your prime minister said it was just hybrid warfare, that it was a joke, and then when he had to face the facts he said some advisors returned the money. That's what the president of the state said, but to this day, it's the money that the advisors didn't pay back, and they were very, very cleverly silent. Therefore, anyone who knows how to add up two and two knows that HDZ is a criminal organization that has been harassing this country for 28 years, which has permeated all the pores of society by corruption and that there will be no peace until they finally go to the tomb of history where they have long ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101453	And now, on behalf of the promoter, Mr Tomislav Panenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101454	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I will thank all of you and the individuals who participated in the debate as well as those who did not but followed closely. I hope that here you have, along with a number of critical reviews and those arguments that should support this initiative, made your decision. I always wonder in the end, and what those who weren't here today were, listening, sitting, how they're making their decision tomorrow. They make a decision either on the basis of the media that will write something or make a decision based on a book or make a decision as a third person. I mean, unfortunately, it's the modeality in which we act here, but I wanted to maybe do a little bit of both for myself and for you to say that it's actually very demanding to make a decision about something that we suggest we create exactly one commission that would not be at this level, which is purely political, which should be voted for or against, but by determining the facts of the moment when circumstances have arisen in which a decision may have been made, in a way that has affected someone, where a number of people may have been called and who are with you and in good relations, which you know and from your political parties. Does that really not raise one key question, do we really want to go through all these steps? Many times we wondered whether the books written by the communist authorities about events after World War II reflected the reality that it was. Today in a free democratic Croatia, after the flow of a certain time, let us see that what was then written does not correspond to reality, especially when you find the bones of people who accidentally ended their lives, who were not then at the will of the regime, who died. Whether we're going to leave some of the bones in the closets that someone will one day scratch and find out that even those who were burning in these discussions were mistaken and say, you can see that this cousin of yours who was then an esteemed representative, the MP, was not speaking on the basis of facts, but on the basis of something that was transmitted to the cults. And the towers also spoke in 2016 in about the second half of 2016 during the period of the Government of Oreshkovic that vibrations from the area of Agrokora show that there is something wrong. Of course, it wasn't that intensity it wasn't that strong, but it was fear. It was simply fear and what was said many times today, by the fall of such a large system, by the bankruptcy that would have happened certainly would have been our economy shaken, something had to be done, so it is no wonder, that in fact everyone tried to find out the part of the event in the system that had been closed around Ivica Todorovic, where even his directors said they did not have all the right to know about all the information, that decisions were made within only a certain part of the Administration. This is an opportunity for you up until the end of 2016 where then in 2017, at the first meeting of the Most, the representative of the Most Independent Lists, the president of the Most actually said one important thing, there was a lot of problems that might need to be solved, but the people, all of it together that we talked about today, it seems unfortunately to be a small matter in relation to what is waiting for us. Agrokor was waiting for us. So, but in that atmosphere, the doubts that occurred in circles, so in the end, you listened to the governor, who said since 2012, he's had legitimate doubts but he couldn't go out with them, he didn't have a way to get out because he might not have had to say that, the feeling that there was something to be warned about. New loans have been granted, new support has been granted, Croatian citizens' funds from HBOR are allocated to this system. A decision was made where they were given new millions for projects that had not been implemented, which remained in fact Croatian citizens' money. Of course, in 2017 it was also not easy to convince the current prime minister that something was happening at the beginning. He felt that he was exaggerating, that what was said simply might be too sudden. If it wasn't such a problem, now with a year away we see that it was a really big problem, that it was a problem, no matter how many say it was solved, it wasn't just because many of our domestic companies, which were founded by domestic, Croatian capital, who employ Croatian citizens, have made and will make significant write-offs on Agrokor. Not only will it run out of part of its assets that would drive the Croatian economy but it will also remain without the part that has turned them into some proportions, which will again be blocked by them. That they got something, they got the smallest, though not all because some weren't lucky that they were the first hand towards Agrokor's companies, but they were over someone, you couldn't charge that whole amount, but looking at the total amount, that's the smallest part. It's big for those looking for it, but it's generally the smallest. All other claims from creditors that have now been shown, significantly higher, were written down that had certainly destroyed one part of the substance that should be considered the development of the Croatian economy. Even for the ruling one, economic indicators, growth indicators, industrial production indicators, much better, better quality, more defensive, are certainly not, that the problem did not exist. We'd probably have more optimism in society. When we return to the process that was happening among the people who were then acting in political responsibilities to make decisions, it was created within the public space of numerous, numerous conflicting statements, where Croatian citizens lost their sense of what exactly happened, who, when, at what time, participated, who eventually had this financial benefit, perhaps from sinking, saving one system, Agrokor, and we can't bring back the past and we won't return it. We cannot recover that financial part because its evidence unfortunately neither of the state institutions, which are dealing with exactly the criminal activities, had the strength, the tools, the possibilities, the entry into and the difference. But that's exactly why this proposal that went ahead of 16 MPs was, let's shed light on political responsibilities. Let us shed light on the fact that we do not have people who have participated in dishonest activities, who have achieved their personal goals or the goals of connected persons and who will contaminate the work and this calls on the Parliament, the Government, the institutions that surround them, institutions that have not acted. I think it's right to initiate this kind of investigation that would determine who he was, when, where he was, what he was talking about, exactly what he suggested. But you will agree as you all ask that a judiciary which unfortunately is not sufficiently efficient to conduct investigative actions in which the views of all sides will be heard... and here everyone would speak. If we're going to get this book that came out yesterday, we can say conveniently it came out. There was a media event that marked yesterday to put in and say this is true. Before you refer only a replica to me on behalf of the promoter, I would ask that each of you confirm that what is written in the book is true, absolute truth, the only truth and that you stand behind it, primarily those who consider that the requirements for research are not relevant, let alone that it was not as it is now presented by the ruling ones. I'm just going to ask you to stand responsible and say that, we confirm what's written that's exactly the way it is. I'll tell you one thing. You don't know. You can't know, you can't know because you weren't at this particular meeting. You weren't sitting there. But I'll tell you, I took part in a meeting in front of the Parliament Committee on the Economy that same author made false. In public, in front of all the media, she confirmed something that later proved to be false and stood firm, staring us in the eye, not blinking. So these are people who can stand by a convincing dictionary, be dominant even at such events and tell a lie not to blink. And I'd be happy to believe that any literary work like what came out yesterday was absolutely true, that it wasn't dressed as it suits the author. But here you are, ruling gentlemen, ladies from HDZ, saying you are not authors. He's the author of Martina Dalic. The author and the designer helped shape the book, who was working and reviewing. They all added something. Then we'll have a dressed actually one in 2017, one, actually what we should show the commission is actually going to be the position of one side. Now, after tomorrow's vote, if it is rejected, I would recommend that at least we conclude that each of those involved write their own book, and then we will have one whole literature from which some future generations of our economists will be able to study different views on this and try to reach conclusions. And you believe me, there will be only one conclusion in the end. We wanted to know maybe even then while all those who claimed to have been in political positions while they were important in this society that they were making true, credible decisions. And in this way we will have re-trust exactly in key decision-makers in key stakeholders of government. This may seem so little now that I've expressed myself literaryly, but believe me, I listened to it today during the day and here while I was now in the assembly of your statement. It can't be determined exactly what was important here. We've all established, the law is passed, it's irrefutable. We've reached a certain degree of consent. The believers have come to a settlement. The trading company needs to spend it now. It's going to be a new ownership structure. There's going to be changes and okay. It's a fact that's the way it is. But when I listen to certain colleagues who attack all of these stakeholders of that time that they have had property benefits, that they have participated in wicked acts, that millions have become and billions of times means maybe a million, two, three, a hundred million, now I've already heard statements today and 500 billion if I've heard it well. So it was 500 billion said. If we don't cut it off... So imagine, up to the top, there may not have been anything heard, and how they will only then be among those who need to follow. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Don't one day become that the real collapse of the Croatian state is starting to question whether it came from consulting services from a group of Borg or perhaps from a Night Head who was probably suspected of having achieved priority information participated in the financing of something they knew from which they would have an almost secure, fast return fee. And that's actually what we're opening a new chapter. I only hope that the position will remain, today I have listened to a colleague of Bačić who said that it primarily means that a certain kind of judicial procedure takes place that the law here is clear about the HDZ Club, that until the end of this procedure it will not support a single commission. Then you ask that question okay, one day when you're done with certain procedures if these 16 MPs ask that question again, will they then be supported to carry out? Okay, we can wait, because I believe that in this case, I hope that the judiciary will be quick enough, that we won't have 10 years away again, so that we'll welcome that, for example. One prime minister, Sanader, is sentenced to 2.5 years, is practically the case at the level of the delinquent, instead of really assessing the damage that occurred in the Republic of Croatia. But that time we're wasting actually becomes a feature of all those who took part in defending a position that will one day be indefensible. From here we can only send a message to the citizens because we sent a message to the politicians. It appears that tomorrow, at the vote itself, this proposal will not be supported. But what citizens need to know is that one-sided communication that is preferred, which is ultimately shown and through the book Martina Dalic can't be true, must not be true, and that is precisely why it is Croatian citizens' right to ask MPs and in this House to ask all those involved to stand up for clearing the situation. Because the situation has occurred in the past, and it is not mentioned that Mrs. Dalic comes from the circle of Mr. Boris Skegra. Why does that connect? So it connects to those negative aspects that were in the not so long ago that they seem to have either recycling or cyclical phenomena, I'd say they might be permanent, which is that there are certain interest groups that in each government find a model of how to achieve their goals. Sometimes they remain undetected, sometimes they really pass that their perhaps for Croatian society harmful actions have not been detected, they may not have been so affected by the common man but this time at the break of Agrokora it is definitely very difficult to explain to someone that someone has taken hundreds of millions of kunas and that everything is fine. If one person had appointed members of the interim religious council and that it remained so that the law had not been fully implemented, the creditors should not have appointed their representatives, not only could we not make this decision but I would say that we should also discuss the law whether, in God's name, we should not give it to others the opportunity to make it right, in fact to change that this situation does not happen to us, that perhaps one, not perhaps, but certainly one good intention to save the system of Agrokora, that it does not fail, that all other companies do not fall behind, that it does not turn into one political manipulation behind which actually does not stand politicians who should be responsible but are standing interest groups that create an environment in which the political struggle is crucial to defend their participation, in order to conceal their participation. So, I would like to appeal once again that we should have a clear, picturesque truth that will not be a paper truth, which will not be local media truth, but which will be the truth shown by the Investigative Commission. One was trying and it was stopped, the other was likely to not come tomorrow, as people would say, the third happiness might be that when this power is not of this ruling majority, that someone will run and then slowly bite you because you fought hard for something you didn't participate in. I think we can say now, here's 7 o'clock in the evening, that we're going to have another set of replicas to try to give answers to, but if you expect me to give the answers then actually the wrong target, the wrong target is these 15 colleagues who signed the motion to launch because we expected the commission to answer that you're going to ask. Therefore, what you want to say to me now I will instruct you that it would be best to refer tomorrow's support to the committee as your call as the points to be discussed at his first session. Everything else I think we heard, we heard your argument, we heard the argument and the colleagues who support this proposal. This is just, in the end it's going to be a ball, the ball of those who want to make final arguments to the promoter to create a new environment in which it's seen as a desire for someone's destruction, that this is a desire to enjoy perhaps HDZ, not just a desire to have real truth. In the end, what is proposed is a commission in which the ruling majority would again give most of their representatives. So, no fear, no chase, no fear, just argument. I invite you here to direct your replicas, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101455	Put... all right, all right, Mr. Thunderbolt, we've got you. Put, well, all right, let your wives know you're working that you're not elsewhere, put Mr. Shucker on the same thing. Mr. Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101456	Dear colleague Panenic, I must admit that we have been impressed here by your debate as former Minister of Economy, which was all based on cults. That I don't owe too much, and you mentioned yourself on several occasions the question of who, when and when was, you told us that you were the wrong target to give us answers, so now I'm asking you where is Bozo? He's a participant of all of these events, he's the right target that we could, want to ask here a question, you suggest something, you seek the establishment of a commission and the main participant here is gone. He's been gone the whole time, my colleague Grumoja said he was at some meeting, either the meeting took a while, or I'd be worried if something hadn't happened to the man. No God, where's Bozo?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101457	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101458	Here, thank you very much for your question, we clearly said that, support tomorrow's commission, the first person to be called is Bozo Petrov. Maybe, I'd just say the importance that, I'm glad you're attaching importance to Mr. God Petrov, it just shows his size and desire actually the initiative to clear this up, it's the right way. I also call on God Petrov to be on the investigative committee, to give his testimony, like all those involved, so that I join your request, and we should all vote together tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101459	Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101460	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Panenic, therefore, with clean hands, once mentioned Prime Minister Plenkovic, I am from a group of MPs who voted for both bankruptcy deals and for this law on extraordinary administration. I'm proud of it, I'm not ashamed of it. It's about saving jobs and everything that's happened in Agrokor and before in all those companies. When it came to a bankruptcy deal, we had 50 billion internal debt, 50 billion unpaid taxes, in this country it was normal not to pay taxes. And in that sense, I think something should have been done. What I disagree with, here is my colleague Bačić today said several times, did not the Government bring, the Croatian Parliament passed Lex Agrokor, and the Law on Extraordinary Administration, the Croatian Parliament and therefore I believe that, so why should the Croatian Parliament not have an investigative commission, because I do not need to know what happened after that. I'm reading what Mrs. Dalic wrote, I believe, I don't believe, it doesn't matter, but I don't know, I can only know through an investigative committee, in that sense I support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101461	Thank you, Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101462	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, in fact, that, you said yourself, you don't want to be one-sided here, you want to know what's been voted here, where basically in all the laws we participate because we supported, we didn't, we were abstentioned. Which is precisely the result of its implementation, and if there is a certain doubt, that it does not turn out that what has always been shared with us, the left, right, and that, but we want to know who it really is, did not divide it into a published book, an unpublished book, did not divide it into those who left the government, those who remained government, did not divide it into ruling or opposition, it was actually a division of what are the truth and only the truth and only the truth, and I hope that if it is supported tomorrow, we will find out exactly the truth that does not recognize the division.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101463	Thank you. Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101464	The reason HDZ allegedly won't support the commission is because a court case has been opened. Which of the points is the trial? Circumstances preceded by the creation of Lex Agrakor, which when he made a decision on the model of problem resolution in Agrokor, circumstances of the formation of the BORG group, as the BORG group developed the Law, which was familiar with the work of BORG, is the author of the draft Law which was addressed in the legislative procedure, the circumstances of the election of Alex Parner's restructuring advisers, the action of the extraordinary commissioners and his deputies in the procedure of the extraordinary administration or the action of the interim religious council. These are the points where the trial is open? Which of these ten... which is a trial procedure open, which could never be founded for anything by an investigative commission because you can always find a slight link between someone about the commission and the INU, that someone in the gas tank stole the fuel, I mean roughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101465	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101466	So trust me colleague Bauk that the link would be after the commission completes its work. I believe from a lot of this that there are elements that then the State's Attorney's Office would be an interested party to the findings of the investigation committee. So I hope that if not through this investigative committee, which we see has no political basis, there may be no political basis, perhaps by tomorrow, to get a basis through some other political option that will come after the one who does not want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101467	Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Panenic, you say someone took hundreds of millions of kunas. That's what you said, I wrote down exactly what you said, it's rumored. There's a lot to talk about, but as a parliamentary representative, the former economy minister has integrity, you have to say something when you say you have to stand behind it, when someone else says it doesn't sound to me that's why I answered. If the money had been taken or stolen, I guess those whose money you and I had been complaining about would have been. But not that they didn't object, but they raised their hands at 80%. And no one's... money. [[You don't understand.]] And you're not the wrong target for a colleague, Panenic. You are the president of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, which has almost weekly thematic sessions, so I invite you to call as chairman of the Committee a nice thematic session in which you will question the impact of the Law on Extraordinary Administration in Systemic Associations on Croatian agrarian, so let's see how much and how he helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101469	Thank you. Well, given the general decrease in concentration, not the first response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101470	Okay, then let's do this. I thank you for this proposal. Of course it's very important that I tell the Committee and I was on the Committee on Economy, so we found there are actually people coming to us who are the Deputy Prime Minister Martina Dalic who lied to us. What... Should I re-session the Agriculture Committee so someone will come to me and rub my eyes on me or some of the others? [[You don't understand.]] He might have done it, but we don't have a quorum because it's not clear to the MPs that they need to come to committee meetings, and it should be made clear and loud that it should seem to put cameras like this right now so people can see what they're talking about and who's taking part in it. Because it really does sometimes be degutant that we should bring more expert opinions than there may be a political debate here, but there are no MPs. And then there's a political debate here, and in the end what? About what? The allegations, not what the committee needed from the proposing representatives to find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101471	Thank you. And as I said before, given the general decrease in concentration, we also respect two positives. There's a Mr. Thunderbolt on the first hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101472	Thank you. Dear colleague Panenic, I think the key question here is who wants an investigative commission on Agrokor and who doesn't want one. Comrade Bauk has now read the meaning of the points in the decision and nowhere in those points can the decision be seen to be conducted in any way. And it is clear that the Croatian Democratic Community, HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic wants to conclude this story on Agrokor. We had a book presentation. Today it's said in the morning, now I'm laughing, they say the book is planing as if it were being sold, divided by the normal charge of the morning list that goes every day. But the headline in the morning was that the book was planned so it's interesting how it's presented. We're looking for an investigative committee to examine everything. We've got nothing to do with it. We looked for him and then. We're looking for him right now, and we see who's afraid of this investigation committee, and that's the only question here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101473	Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101474	Dear comrade Grmoya, in fact, I'm just afraid that we shouldn't be in a situation where we don't trust ourselves anymore. Because of all these facts, we don't know what the real fact is anymore. Maybe some fact belongs to another period before, later? Maybe one really belongs to a certain meeting where important things were brought? Perhaps something has happened to someone who really caused the coups that we later found difficult to see in the very proposal of the law? But we can see that there are differences with similar proposals, for example, compared to the Italian proposal, where some cases leave out just one of the articles that would make it impossible to do a lot of things that became suspicious during law enforcement. Lucky for us, we weren't at the time to be accused. It's the only thing that pleases me personally is that when it started that way, we weren't part of that government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101475	Thank you. And indeed the last post-replication of that thick late replica. Excuse me, I give you my word to replicate Here you go. [[- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101476	My colleague Panenic, I honestly expected from you that as a former economy minister you would present some facts, sublime what has been said and give some new arguments about what you have proposed. However, two facts remain irrefutable, which is that the believers do not object. Those few were instigated by a court dispute. Employees don't complain. They're the most important thing in this whole story. And now we come into one, that the participants of one conversation interpret these conversations differently, and normally that we interpret them differently. And I expected from you as a proponent that you would possibly support me as someone who had neither participated in bringing Lex Agrokor nor in those conversations that you would give me an additional argument as to why I should possibly support it, because workers and creditors did not tell me to support them because they are satisfied. They're working. Believers have charged something, and the process is expected to move on normal. But I'm telling you, as former Minister of Economy, don't just make me mention one of your reasons for some gathering.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101477	Thank you. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101478	Thank you very much. Here I would, given that here I would give you the answer to this. So I'm not the one who needs me here, not you, not every single one of us, to tell you the fact. That's exactly why the commission needed it. I don't know why you insist that I should say some fact so that it may then be an object that maybe it's true, it's not true. I'd ask, we're looking for a body in which you'll have the largest number of representatives to determine the reality that is so that we don't discuss here who might be unhappy with you. Is there someone who might not have gotten something, so maybe he's bothered to find out that someone's got it. Then you'll find yourself unhappy because you'll see that some of you may have participated in some division that wasn't others. And maybe it's good on that side that you don't... Can I just finish? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101479	Please, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101480	Can I finish? Here if you can help me. Here's what I'd like to say, but why are you leaving it to offend you? [[Please stop. You've got 10 seconds left. Here you go.]] Set up a commission and you won't be hurt at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101481	Mr. Shucker has a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101482	So you, Mr. Chairman, were wrong when Mr. Panenic spoke here and now. Article 232 of our Rules of Procedure states that the speaker can talk about the subject of the agenda. Mr. Penenić left something, obviously something tickles him, I didn't mention it at all, it doesn't tickle me, but usually people say what, scratching where it it itches.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101483	And based on what article, can you say more?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101484	232. I said Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101485	Yeah, okay. Now I have two things to do, either to get over it or to give two warnings and not to tell you what we're going to have on the agenda tomorrow. Since I am going to go over this, I am concluding the debate, we will vote tomorrow on this proposal, and tomorrow we will continue with the Annual Report on the work of the Competition Protection Agency for 2017 and the vote at 12 and the start of work is at 9.30. Goodbye, good night, go back. The session was interrupted at 7:22 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101486	Dear Parliamentarians, honourable parliamentary representatives, please take your seats. We're going with the vote as always Friday at this time with one hand in the air, a respected colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101487	Here's a little correction, Mr. President. It's Wednesday. It's not Friday. And of course, given the plan you submitted for the vote, the first item is the vote on the debated proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission. The SDP advocates' club is seeking a two-minute break related to this point, in order to further consult on our vote-related position, but also to give the esteemed colleagues and colleagues from HDZ the opportunity to reconsider a little more. I know that many of my colleagues and colleagues were present a few days ago at Mrs. Dalic's book, and I know they're impressed by what Mrs. Dalic said, but I have to get you out of that illusion and I have to tell you. With lex Agrokora, there was no end to partnering capitalism in the Republic of Croatia. Ortac capitalism in the Republic of Croatia has gained new momentum. And that's why we're giving you one more chance to think about whether you're going to support partnering capitalism or you're really going to help with the proposal that's being made, which is that this partner capitalism breaks once and for all in the Republic of Croatia. I will finish now, and will continue to explain my colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101488	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues think again, you hide from the Croatian citizens the truth that happened around Lex Agrokor, tens of millions of kunas pulled out your friends, earned the money they didn't see in their lives, that made it possible for your government. Mrs. Dalic who gave her vision of things two days ago, but Croatian citizens have the right to hear what is true. Which is why you're not for the Committee, which is why you're hiding information, which is why two days ago it will remain remembered as a culmination and confirmation of everything negative that happened in the Republic of Croatia. With privatisation, partner capitalism, Agrokor, Todorovic, Sanader and all those and teaching all today until Andrej Plenkovic. That's why people are leaving the Republic of Croatia. Don't do that, let the citizens hear what's true, I call you again, if you don't allow it, then be ashamed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101489	Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101490	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ counseling club, I am also looking for a break so that, once again in the club, we can repeat all those reasons why we will not support the establishment of an investigative commission for several reasons. The first reason is the fact that the establishment of an investigative commission would be contrary. The 4th Law on the Investigation Committees which says that it cannot be established if, for one of the issues that set up the Commission's investigation, a judicial procedure is open. As you know, the trial is open. Therefore, in that sense, I would ask my colleague Maras not to enter my word. I kept my mouth shut while he was talking. Therefore, it is not possible to establish an investigative committee of law on the one hand, and on the other hand, this particular story that tries to impose itself in public that the hot mail affair was illegal, as it allowed our money to be taken, is not true. I would reiterate that it is the fact that advisers used the means of creditors who, by accepting the settlement on July 4th, were clearly determined according to the work of a consultant and to all fees because with more than 80% of the creditors accepted that settlement and thus gave consent to the work of the extraordinary administration and in the section relating to the work of advisers. And the third, no less important thing, which is that according to criminal charges by the Living Wall and Free Croatia, the State's Attorney's Office carried out the tests and found that in this process relating to the so-called so-called "the State's Attorney's Office". The hot mail affair, there was no illegality. So, for all of these reasons, the HDZ Club is asking for a break to be made and to confirm that there is no possibility of establishing an investigative commission proposed by 16 MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101491	My fellow Son, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101492	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, I am also looking for a party to consult on the vote, therefore, for the Parliamentary Investigation Commission for Agrokor. I'll explain the break. Legally speaking, there are no obstacles to the Commission's establishment. Legally speaking, criminal charges by the Living Wall, therefore, the DORH rejected, said he saw nothing disputed there. Therefore, legally, there is also a basis for establishing a Parliamentary Research Commission, I am talking about BORG and I am talking about a hot mail affair. There are no legal obstacles to establishing such a commission. And as far as the damage is concerned, and if it were private money, I would only remind you that the Republic of Croatia had shares in the Agrokor concert and that we lost a lot of money there. That pension funds in which Croatian citizens are paying, so, every month, they also lost a lot of money. Therefore, it is, in addition to what I have now cited, among many other reasons, much damage to the state and to the citizens, not just on private property there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101493	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101494	Thank you. Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101495	You've been contacted before by a colleague, Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101496	Dear Mr. President HS. Since colleagues from the SDP, HDZ and the Living Wall have already explained that they are looking for a break in the consultation on the appointment of the Agrokor Committee. We from the GLAS Club and HSU will take this break, among other things, to take a position in the vote, but also to take the opportunity to congratulate all Christians with the reformation heritage today, Reformation Day, but also to all Slovenians their civil holiday, as well as to all my fellow Germans who celebrate German literacy day today. Because the translation of the Bible into German is based on modern German. This has helped Croatians, among other things, because they have received the Holy Scriptures in their own language and since then practical standardisation of our native language here in Croatia begins. And, of course, regrettable that in Croatian society there is little more of a spirit of Protestantism.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101497	We're joining the congratulations too. Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101498	Thank you. Dear President, on behalf of the MOSTA Club, I'm looking for a break so the MOST Club can consult, so it means a decision ahead of us. It is clear that we will support this decision because we are signatories, so all representatives of the Bridge Club. This is the second time this House has discussed the establishment of a parliamentary investigative commission. For the first time, the Committee was founded but unfortunately shut down after we had recognitions on the Committee, very important, which showed that this country was functioning over the past period. We had the confessions of former Governor Rohatinski, that Ivica Todorovic, Zdravko Maric, Milan Kujundzic and Tomislav Karamarko urged him to engage politically, showing that Ivica Todorovic had an important influence not only on politicians, but also on the governor of the CNB, which opens up the possibility and questions about both exchange rate, monetary policy and exchange rate differences, import lobbies and their influence on monetary policy. It also shows that for years, Ivica Todorovic has been favoured and that just those who are now talking about the breakdown of social capitalism have favored Ivica Todorovic and have been closely associated with Ivica Todorovic and his concert. There is no reason to obstruct this investigative commission because no court proceedings are conducted in the case of a Hot Mail affair. This is what constitutional experts such as Mr Mate Palic are talking about, but HDZ is back on the same set and does not want to allow a parliamentary investigative commission. I call on HDZ colleagues to reconsider this opposition proposal and to support the Parliamentary Investigation Committee on Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101499	Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101500	Well, I would ban the president from taking these breaks and it's just pulling this hair off his pig's ass. You have the 2010 Law in fact which was introduced, uh, in the Chamber in the Constitution that the crime, the crimes of privatisation and conversion and illegal means do not go out of date. This is not out of date, so implement these laws of this you will get rid of everything and admit that it has become the Croatian state it is. I call it the Satanist Republic, this is not a Croatian state but something like Slavija here is that the top communist took over all the levers and their sons and grandchildren hold all the levers. Further until this is settled, this Law until it is implemented on the ground and the tax administration of the origin of the property will have that republic socialist. But these parties are just decorations. You dress up like tits on a boar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-30-0.u101501	Is anyone else picking up? No, but there's a lot of you looking for a break. So we have a break until 12 o'clock and 26 minutes. MEETING IN 12.12 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.27 HOURS]] Who's sitting there next to Shucker? Oh, I know. Please, colleagues and colleagues. Is he coming? Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are now leaving with a vote. The first item is the proposal for a Decision establishing the Agrokor Investigation Commission, the proposals are 16 MPs and MPs, the debate is closed. Article 6 of the Law on Investigation Commissions stipulates that the proposal for the establishment of the Investigation Commission decides by a majority of the votes of all MPs, i.e. 76 votes. Further to the vote of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Agrokor Research Commission. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal has received 48 votes for, 0 abstentions, 74 votes against, so no decision has been made on the establishment of an investigative committee.
