ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100452	Good morning, everyone. Well, it's a good thing the students are with us because otherwise there would be one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, one less than ten. It's 9:30. With us are students and professors from the Faculty of Educational Rehabilitation in Zagreb and welcome them with all the applause we have. And let's start working. [[Applause.]] The first item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, first reading, P.Z. No. 406; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, then. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. Would the applicant's representative like to give further reasons? State Secretary Margareta Majeric of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100453	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, MPs and MPs. Educational rehabilitation activity was for the first time regulated by the Educational Rehabilitation Act in 2011. The entry into force of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications has shown the need for intervention on the provisions of the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity in order to comply with the requirements for the exercise of educational rehabilitation activities as a regulated profession as well as in the part of the public authority of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, which should carry out the procedure for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications as a competent authority. Amendments to the provisions of the law regarding the conditions for the implementation of the educational rehabilitation activity are proposed. In order to reduce the administrative burden of persons performing the educational rehabilitation activity, it is necessary to delete the mandatory association provisions of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators and the obligation to verify professionality in the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators in order to renew the approval of the Master of Educational Rehabilitation and the university's first grade of education rehabilitation for independent work on educational rehabilitation activities. The proposed law will not require additional funding but funds are secured in the state budget at the position of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100454	We have one replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100455	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary. I also understand, in your explanation, the presentation regarding the amendments and additions to this law. However, I would not agree until the end that one law, which we should say, nomotechnically edit, is actually derrogating another law. In this case, this fundamental law relating to the educational rehabilitation activity. If you look at an argument with an interested public you will see that more than 130 objections have come to this law, they mainly came from the profession, chamber and educational rehabilitation college. Therefore, none of these expert remarks were accepted. I would like to think again about this and all these suggestions that are listed here so that we can improve these things by reading again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100456	... No, no, no. [[Specially enabled.]] Okay. Let's begin, will the representatives of clubs, committees, pardon, take the floor? No, I don't. Let's start with the clubs. Mrs. Maria Alfirev in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100457	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Demography, Youth, Family and Social Policy. Thus, we have before us a proposal to amend, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Educational Rehabilitation, this is the first reading, and I really hope that in the SDP we hope that the remarks that are being made today will be classified and reconsidered what is being proposed here. Some things, therefore, change important things so that they have one more quality suggestion until the next reading. And anyway, so I'm going to say right away that the SDP club won't support this bill and I'm going to explain why. I haven't been able to contact you in the replica, but if you could tell me, so I'd like you to tell me if it was, so this proposal that you've proposed to us now would be how different it is from actually a proposal that was agreed perhaps with working groups. So that the task force must have had a different opinion, a different proposal compared to what we now have before us and which was in the final line and presented in public consultation. First of all, I would like to welcome all my colleagues and colleagues from the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty of the University of Zagreb. We can see they're here today. And I would also like to welcome the special colleagues of the Centre for Education and Education of Šubićec from Sibenik, who have actually strongly and clearly advocated the importance of the profession because it is very nicely visible precisely from the remarks that have arrived at e-consultation on this bill. This law has stopped on less than 20 pages, and over 80 pages are remarks on these few amendments and additions. What exactly does that tell us? That experts, educational rehabilitators in turn criticise these changes and additions. The reason is simple. You've actually insulted, divided, weakened by this law. But not just a profession. You also told these children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities and parents that it is absolutely irrelevant who will support them, who will teach them, who will conduct rehabilitation, who will answer for things if things go downhill. I'd really like to, so, this is the law that's in front of us in this house that we decide whether we support it or not. But this is for the public, too. This is really very, very important, and so let's think about what we're saying today. Let's take this really seriously because it's about the future and actually the lives, the lives of people, the lives of the most sensitive groups, and these are children with developmental difficulties, these are people with disabilities. How did you actually do that? You have hereby determined that one part of the educational rehabilitation should not be enrolled in the Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators. You have determined that most of the profession should remain out of control of a roof organization which, by its nature, should be a place of gathering of experts of one profession no matter where they work, no matter where they work, no matter how they work in the social care system or in the health care system, the employment system or the education system, whatever. That roof organization should be gathering all the experts. However, by this law, these amendments and additions, you have annulled it. And what did you do with it? You have opened the doors of kindergartens, schools, all those who, for example, have completed a course in Medjugorje and let's call it the right name, a course in Medjugorje. And is this course enough so that someone competently and evenly with the completed Master of Educational Rehabilitation can perform a regulated profession of teachers or co-workers of an educational rehabilitator, for example in primary school? And that's what's happening. That's what's happening. Unfortunately, many schools, therefore, have, and have given in, simply hired indefinitely people without additional competence checks from as many as 15 colleagues. So it's not all arranged here, either. Some of them had to go through competence checks. Some have been approved. Some don't. Be careful and the public needs to know. One who denys the Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators influences the system of education, and in this system of preschool education, primary, secondary education and education works two-thirds of the profession. So in the chamber would have jurisdiction of the chamber would have left one 300 maybe experts. And most of them, so most of the professions would be out of control of the chamber. What does that actually say? That someone doesn't care about the quality of work, that they don't care about the competences that competences have to do with students with developmental difficulties. I'm asking all of you, does that make sense? I'd really like someone to answer me if that makes sense. That's where I set out three words that actually describe this bill. Paradoxically, inconsistencies, irresponsible. Here, I'll explain why. Why paradoxically? I'm going to show you this on an example of two institutions. This is for us, but this is also for the general public. They just need to know what it looks like. Our system in Croatia is quite complex. Here, in children with difficulties, but you can see how complex this is and so many are incomprehensible. This is not strange, because at the same time, two different systems, two different ministries, two different sources of funding, two different systems of billing for workers, and now, according to this law, they would be different according to the obligation or right of enrollment in the directory of educational rehabilitators and the obligation to pay membership fees in the chamber. I'll mention it, I hope my colleagues and colleagues don't get mad at me for saying I'm apostropheming them, but in some ways it's a really bright example for me. So my people from Sibenik, the Center for Education at Šubićec is in the social care system and the educational rehabilitators of the center would be obliged to join the chamber while the Educational Training Centre of Čakovec, which is in the education system, would be excluded from the right to enrol in the directory and to join, do you see this absurdity of this proposal, see? If there's any logic in the adoption of this law, here's to going back to our two centers neither guilty nor debtor. The victims are our vagrants to the impasses of legal provisions. It is precisely because in the education system, educational rehabilitators from Čakovec are cut off by recent pay provisions because they only count on the part where they are directly with the students, that in Sibenik, which is in the welfare system, they would not have done so, and so if this law is adopted they will save on membership they will not have to pay membership fees to the chamber. Therefore, they will enjoy the benefits of membership in the chamber and are professionally improved through the chamber, but they do not provide for professional training from the education system catalogue. What happens if someone from Čakovec decides to move to Sibenik, for example. Because there's a new job opening there, and simply his living circumstances say I'm going to Sibenik. One day, he will have to become a member of the chamber in Sibenik, and his salary may be slightly higher. And it wouldn't be weird if it weren't really about exactly identical educational programmes if it wasn't for children with developmental difficulties and in Sibenik and Čakovec you had class classes you have educational groups you have half-day programmes for those up to 21 years and for those over 21 years interesting and you could really list things like this forever I'm going to add some things to the individual but I'm really trying here to show all the absurdity of this proposal. The point is that, as a state, we have decided on a professional arrangement through the chambers and authorized the control chambers to carry out our activities then we have decided all experts and the activities of the group in one place no matter where they work and that is the only right thing to do. Why isn't that the case with educational rehabilitators? Maybe someone knows, maybe we're suggesting I'm not gonna calculate about it right now. The second word is how long it allows me, inconsistencies, very short. The ministry that proposed this law also regulates other laws governing professional chambers, so when it comes to the social work of psychology or social pedagogy that are currently in e-consultation, we can all see it actually keeps them compact does not share them. Which is why we have to ask ourselves what the educational rehabilitators have done to make them feel this fate. And the last word I mentioned was irresponsible, and I mentioned earlier, and this is really a relationship to the educational rehabilitation profession, and here I will read something that has also been read in e-consultation, as a signator of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, is obliged to ensure that services, institutions responsible for the care or protection of children are under professional supervision and to comply with the standards of the competent authorities, in particular as regards the safety, health and the number and expertise of staff. The circumvention of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators as a regulatory body in the education system allows for the employment of experts without adequate competences which may result in unprofessional work. All these articles that are proposed in such a short law in these amendments and additions actually talk about this and I'm going to say something a little bit more specifically about them in an individual debate but the purpose of the law is the one that I told the experts who work in education and education from the Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators and leave them there, I'm not saying it's unprofessional people, I'm not saying it's the Ministry of Education that can't make decisions, but it's the chamber that has the right and the duty to recognise qualifications. but also keep an eye on all the experts. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100458	Thank you very much. State Secretary Mađeric asked for 5 minutes on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100459	... Nice Mr. Vice President, thank you to the honourable representative for the debate. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I would like to intervene very briefly because I assume that in later discussions, similar questions will be asked, namely the draft law which is here in the first reading is the result of the work of the task force but also of agreeing with the working authorities. What is important here to point out is that the list of regulated professions included an expert associate in the follow-up as a regulated profession. Under the name of an expert co-worker, educational rehabilitators also come into consideration. The competent authority for the above profession is the Ministry of Science and Education and the competent Agency for Education, which does not mean that they will not have professional supervision. It will, as provided for in this proposal for a bill that was once again highlighted in the first reading, be conducted by the competent ministry. And, of course, the recognition of diploma is foreseen by the competent ministry and the Education and Education Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100460	Thank you very much, Mrs. Hungarian. You have two replicas. The first one is from Mr. Bunjec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100461	Thank you very much. Dear State Secretary, I understand there is a conflict with the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators. You first accepted their remarks to give up on them at the last minute. Well, I don't know why it was done. Whether this conflict is based solely on the ingenuities that you would like to take, although we should not, or whether it is about material interests, perhaps sharing money from EU funds, etc.? So, the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators has public authority. It is therefore a professional chamber and should essentially be in the same position as all other chambers. Well, please, if you can answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100462	Mrs. Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100463	... [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100464	Do you want to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100465	Thank you very much. ... The highlighted draft law is the result of the work of the working group. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on, not understood.]] After that, the draft bill goes to agreeing to the competent authorities and then, of course, to the Government in the Croatian Parliament where we are discussing and where we are discussing today and all proposals are very welcome and I believe that the second reading will come if there is a need and we will discuss and we will see and respond to all the suggestions we will hear in today's debate. But once again, I would like to point out that in this section that has obviously caused the greatest interest, there will be expert supervision and a body that will carry out the recognition of such diplomas, and that is the Ministry of Education and Science and Education and the Agency for Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100466	Thank you. Let's move on with the clubs. Mr Drazen Barisic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100467	Thank you, Vice President. Respected State Secretary and Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The Educational Rehabilitation Act was already adopted in 2011 when it clearly defined the activities of educational rehabilitation through procedures and measures based on the principles and knowledge of education-rehabilitation sciences and practices. For the first time, educational rehabilitation activities are therefore, content, mode of action, conditions for performing activities and professional supervision of the work of university graduates and magistrates of educational rehabilitation. After 7 years, there is a need to comply with this law with other regulations and the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the Service Act. This law harmonizes education-rehabilitation activity with the provisions of the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications in the part of the regulation of the conditions for carrying out activities as a regulated profession. Public powers of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators are also defined which should carry out the procedure of recognition of foreign professional qualifications, except for teachers of educational rehabilitation in kindergartens and schools subject to pre-school, primary and secondary education regulations. The educational rehabilitators are employed in different systems of health care, social care, education and education. In all systems they work with vulnerable social groups whose vulnerability stems from their developmental difficulties or disability. Within that group of our fellow citizens are particularly vulnerable children who go through different systems, as well as through a system of education and education in which the educational and rehabilitation profession plays an important role. The Ministry of Science and Education is responsible for the education and education system, resulting in the ministry's obligation to regulate the profession within the system. The profession is regulated by the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools and the Preschool Law. This is why educational rehabilitators in kindergartens and schools are excluded in terms of the provision by which the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators implements the process of recognising professional qualifications, however, further consideration should be given to inter-resorship of status in order to preserve the profession and levelling of expertise and the preservation of professionalism and professionalism. Furthermore, the law lays down detailed and clearer conditions for enrolment in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators, which are the basic condition for carrying out educational and rehabilitation activities. In line with the Action Plan for the Administrative Dispensation of the Economy, the renewal of the approval for independent work on educational rehabilitation activities is lifted, but the obligation of permanent professional training is further stressed. Harmonisation with the Service Act refers to the provision of educational rehabilitation activities to provide services from the territory of the European Economic Area, which is a horizontal law in the field of providing services in the Republic of Croatia. The law transfers powers of supervision and control over the exercise of private practice from the competent ministry to the professional organisation of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators. Chambers shall also be empowered to suspend the exercise of private practice. These provisions are justified to give priority to the professional and professional approach to the supervision and control of the work of educational rehabilitators in private practice. When adopting this law, it is important to remind holders of educational rehabilitation activities, therefore educational rehabilitators, a group of experts to whom this law applies. All in all, in terms of numbers and numbers, it is a small professional and scientific community, but in the context of social care, it is about professionals who are professionally engaged in the most vulnerable groups in society, and that is why this law is particularly important because it refers to persons who carry out their educational rehabilitation activities. In January of this year, a national day of educational rehabilitators was announced, so on March 1st, 8 months later, we are discussing a law that sets out educational, rehabilitation activities more clearly here. In light of the fact that it is a noble profession that cares about the most sensitive groups of our citizens, there will certainly be more debates that will seek to improve the position of this profession in society. The needs for educational rehabilitators in both society and the labour market are growing and their contribution in caring for people with developmental difficulties and disability is irreplaceable. In addition to harmonising educational rehabilitation activities with the applicable regulations, this law gives greater authority and thus the responsibility of the professional organisation of educational rehabilitators, which is logically and justifiable, as this raises the level of professionalism and expertise that ultimately preserves the reputation of the profession. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100468	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Goran Beus Richembergh will speak on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100469	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. The GLAS and HSU club will not support this proposal in its first reading. Key reasons for our attitude have already been heard from previous speakers. In that sense, I'm asking you a few questions that are as logical as the logical solutions that are offered. We heard from the explanation and from the reply to the State Secretary's reply that this was a proposal put out by the task force. What does that mean? It doesn't mean anything. Because we do not know who was sitting in that group at all, the working group is appointed by the minister, or the minister by his own criteria, and by his own discretion and by the fact that he is sitting in working groups, this practice shows approximately the goal that he wants to achieve by a certain law and not the other way around. So the worst of all is that we haven't heard any reason, too much reason why here is now trying to impose a paradoxical solution and a precedent which we definitely didn't have in any procedure when we have defined by law what professional activities this High House allows for chamber association of supervision, as well as education or licensing. Therefore, in none of the professional activities previously processed, it has not occurred that persons considered to be experts from that domain were divided into two classes according to where they work and not what they do with their profession. So it's totally paradoxical if you work with employer A that the law includes you with your obligations and if you work with employer B that you're free of it. In this particular case, it is therefore about educational rehabilitators working in the system of education and education that are practically left out of the scope defined in the powers of the chamber. We see absolutely no reason for that. That's why we expected the State Secretary's appearance to explain it to us. We can understand that the chamber of course has its own interests, that it wants to cover everything, that it wants to in some way establish control that it wants to establish control over the whole activity, so it is clear to us and every chamber wants membership to be paid to be stable, funded, to have a certain monopoly in that space, we can understand that, but we can't understand when their proposals are opposed to not having any counter argument and that's not good. To say that supervision will be carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education, so it is done for all activities and for all the professions that are in education and education, but it has nothing to do with this. So we've never done that division and basically segregation before. We will enter into if such a proposal passes and I see that, among MPs and MPs, most of them, there is no agreement about it, in fact, we will lead to a fight within one activity which is not good. We will divide them, oppose them, conflict them, and we will have those who are licensed and entered into the register, i.e. the directory of the chamber and those who are not. Why are we doing this? We don't see any reason to do that. Paradoxically, professional associates or advisers at the Ministry of Demography who are engaged in this activity are all designated educational rehabilitators. As far as I know, there are no logos, nor social educators, but they are all just educational rehabilitators, and why people sitting in the ministry who are the same professions allow something like this to happen, which is the resonance, whether it's some lobbys, interest groups, a connection with certain institutions or not a connection or some kind of renegade from my own space of profession I don't know or not want to speculate. Since this is about first reading, I welcome the good intention that the secretary of state had just said that until the second reading, all of what is heard here would be taken seriously, but I am sorry that it was not taken seriously, but rather for the first reading, because in the consultation in the previous procedures, this amendment and the addition of the law had experienced a whole series of criticisms, proposals for concrete ones, demands for changes of all things had actually moved away and deafened itself from it. Why? This activity requires and I'd say we owe her the highest level of attention. Fair society is a society that invests in educational rehabilitation of children with special needs. Fair society is that it will never come into a position that there is money for other things and there is no money for others, but also, while we are on this subject, I want to stress our obligation to be equal with the highest level of attention, care and commitment, as well as to discuss the position of working conditions and logos, which there is a lot on the free market but are far short of them in the educational process because kindergartens and schools have a critical few employees' logos. Untrained people would prefer to give maybe mobile funds rather than rehabilitating the voice rehabilitation of their own child, since they do not know the importance of early action and help professional help, as well as social educators. We need to be aware that our system of education and education is severely impaired by these professions, and children who need this help go into regular programs unlike the children we talk about today when we talk about educational rehabilitators, many of whom do not go into the regular program. That is why there are special educational institutions such as centres in Sibenik, Velika Gorica and elsewhere. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU Club will not support this proposal and we suggest that, until the second reading, you take it seriously into account, the remarks that segregation is not done in the profession, that institutions are unique criteria and supervision and education, professional training, enrolment in the directory and everything that actually enables this law already through the action and authority of the chamber according to all the conditional terms of the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100470	And to you, it is now Mr. Rechimer Varda's turn in front of the club of representatives of the party of labour and solidarity, reformists and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100471	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President, well-respected secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague, I must admit that these issues are not very much in the spotlight of my special interest, but since the Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators has also addressed the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Assembly, whose vice president I then made an effort to allow me to try to understand what it says in the bill and what educational chambers of educational rehabilitators have delivered to me in all clubs in the Assembly and through those remarks. The second interested me in this area and because of the 41 comments in the first let's say reading in the consultation, one was received on the other's knowledge rejected, and a total of 142 comments were delivered in the extended e-consultation period, of which 10 were accepted and 2 received on the knowledge. Now I've tried from the proponent's explanation of the status assessment, the basic issues that are governed by the proposed law to read about what the problem is. I now quote: The conditions for enrolment in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators are more clearly prescribed, which are also the basis for performing the educational rehabilitation activities. From this sentence, as a lawyer, I conclude that rehabilitators are in the chamber, and then follows, for the purpose of harmonising with the provisions of the Services Act, an action plan for administrative redistribution of the economy in order to reduce the administrative burden on persons performing the educational rehabilitation activity is deleted from the obligation of compulsory association in the chamber. Well, my people, they're not going with each other, they're really not going, I'm interpreting from a legal point of view. It's not working. The second, third, also based on the National Reform Programme for 2018, adopted at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 26 April 2018, the liberalisation of the service markets is carried out, it is not only a service, with the aim of removing, among other things, regulatory price limits and for this reason, provisions on setting the lowest price are deleted. Please, I said this isn't my area. I read the existing law and what you suggest. In the current law, Article 18 states: “The lowest price for the work of private magistrates of education rehabilitation is determined by the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators,” I will now speak only to the Chamber, “The Chamber also approves the individual price of services to each magistrate who performs private practice. The Master shall perform private practice in the area of performance a prominent price list, etc.’. Now I'm actually wondering, why the liberalisation of the market for this activity? What are we discharging the economy for this favor? I don't get it, and I really don't get it. Maybe my colleague Shuker can answer that, but I really don't get it? When you read the first sentence, then the second sentence, then the third sentence is here. Now what actually comes out of the debates so far between colleagues and colleagues is that we are, in fact, with optional membership in the Chamber, actually giving up the system of understanding regulatory professions and their regulatory body. I think you respected secretary of state should think very carefully about the ministry to change this until the second reading. So much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100472	Thank you, Mr. Varda. Now we move on to individual debates. Mrs. Romana Jerkovic. She's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100473	Thank you, Vice President. Here is another point, in particular, in these two articles of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, which should actually be changed with another emphasis that it is really not good when professions, different professions when we really behave or treat different professions in this different way or when, say, the activity of social work is arranged through chambers in one way, and the activity of educational rehabilitators in another way. Because we have chambers that should be regulated equally. It's about the articles. So this Article 1 of these amendments and supplementing what is crucial and which should not, which should change. In fact, the name of the workplace or the area of work cannot be a condition for not establishing a single system of control over the work of the members of the profession in carrying out the regulated activity. So that's what we've already mentioned no matter where we work, in which system, where members of the same profession worked, must be united in one place. Therefore, the register in the register of the competent Chamber should be both the right and the obligation of all members of that profession. What, therefore, is the logical need to build a system of supervision over the activities of educational rehabilitators and that is what I hope to all of us clearly. I also see through the debate so far that it is quite obvious that we are all on the same track, and I really hope that this will be considered until the second reading and that there will be no need even for the writing of amendments and that in the second reading we will indeed have a united profession in the chamber and that the chamber will have real influence and right and supervision, but also recognition of professional qualifications and those who will work in education. This is also the case with this second article, meaning Article 2 which is talking about and should really be changed in a way that the Chamber, representatives of the Chamber, should be in the Committee for the Implementation of the Recognition of Foreign Professional Qualifications in the Education Area. This concrete amendment and supplementation proposal is really problematic and controversial because it actually says that there are two regulatory bodies. One that is for the social care system, the other one that is for the field of education and really if someone has completed a college outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia and is necessary and wants to work in Croatia, so he needs the recognition of professional foreign professional qualifications of that person, the expert does not really know who he will address at that time, he simply does not know. We can't expect anyone who comes to Croatia to know at that moment or may already be in the Republic of Croatia, but has graduated from college outside the borders. How will he know which body or system it will work with? What does that mean? In order for him to have to immediately at that time when he has finished college know whether he will work in the education system, so he will go to the ministry and ask for recognition of foreign professional qualifications or he will know in advance that he will work in the welfare system, so he will go to the chamber, turn to the chamber and tell me 100% I will work in the welfare system. It's that absurd. It's an absurdd of this proposal. So, we're not, so we're not, but someone's good, well complicated this thing. He crashed the height of the waist, collapsed the height of the chamber, the chamber that represents the roof organization. But not only that, but it is, I'll do it again. It's on track to actually introduce unprofessional work in schools, kindergartens. It's on track that really people who ended up somewhere outside of the Republic of Croatia. They want to work here, and they don't know who they're going to turn to, whether it's simply unclear to them, and that they're really wondering where they came from, what kind of system they came into, and how they're going to end up working on them later. And that's why I think, let's think about all this because this isn't good. Here, with that, actually, by asking and wishing it would change, I hope that there will be these changes. I'd like to conclude this individual debate with one more thank you and congratulations to all the educational rehabilitators. This year we also declared the Day of Educational Rehabilitators on March 1st, which I hope, we gave a great recognition to that profession, to those people who work and under different conditions, doing one responsible job, not a caritative. And let's get away from it, not quarantined, but extremely responsible work. A 5 - year - old job for a job that is extremely beautiful because every day it shows how much progress someone is making, and that is really a success. So I thank all these people and congratulate them on their work, and let's show this law that we can be better, that we can confess that profession and give them even more recognition. So, once again, I hope that these remarks will be included and that what we've been saying so far will come to those who decide, so that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100474	Thank you, too. You have two replicas. The first replica has Mr. Maras. Good afternoon, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100475	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Mrs. Alfirev, what is absolutely imposed by this law, you have well noticed is the question of the standard by which educational rehabilitators will operate, or you have a situation where in certain cases local units, counties and cities will be competent, and on the other hand, the jurisdiction of the state. So it's the same job, same education, one has to respect one condition, another condition. Until the second reading, too, it should be seen absolutely to bring this together and to make it possible for educational rehabilitators to have identical standards regardless of who their founders are or who manages them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100476	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100477	Thank you. That's right, colleague Maras. Indeed, there you are, saying the essence of this problem. So it's about this proposal going after it to separate the profession and that for the same jobs as I've already said... So, in the same Republic of Croatia, in the same institutions that do the same work, the same activity. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] One system is in charge of an education system, another welfare system, and this law will further divide because educational rehabilitators in the education system won't need to be enrolled in the chamber, they won't have to pay membership fees and the chamber won't oversee the work of these people. While others in the welfare system will be required to be a chamber.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100478	Thank you. Mrs. Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alfirev, you have pointed out the point that someone has worked hard to actually create a certain chaos and degrade the profession by virtue of this law. Unfortunately, in this case, I think responsibility lies with the Ministry of Education. Or because he doesn't understand or because on one, no, I'm going to say that I hope it came to this because the Ministry of Education doesn't understand that this law, not only will it create chaos in the degradation of the profession, but also in access to children with developmental difficulties. Depending on what system their institution formally belongs to, regardless of what the same job is doing and what the Ministry of Education may have failed to assume over all education and education centres, thus uniting the same activity under the same roof, we have a system found as double but let's not work further divisions within the system in the standard service of children with disabilities. [[Intruder: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100480	Answer, Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100481	Thank you, colleague Glasovac, that you have said the essence of exactly what I am also really warmly hoping that there have been some communication perhaps problems between the resolution ministries and that this will be really corrected because it is both paradoxical and absurd and illogical and it should not be so. So I believe that there are going to be some positive changes and that things will work out the way they're supposed to, that's what I'm saying because it's obvious that on those 20 pages there are actually 80 pages of others there were objections. The remarks were made by the profession, by the chamber, by the associations, by the centres, which actually means that it is questionable how much the working group, members of the task force, was obeyed in drawing up the bill itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100482	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debates of Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to join the greetings of the students of the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty and also to express my respect for them, and, of course, respect for the fact that during their study days they are interested in the problem of their profession, which is already one of the evidence that the interest of an educational rehabian is not just a profession and is not just a calling and is not just an interest but a call and can't be anyone. Educational rehabilitators are people who work with the most vulnerable population group in general, so our children, and therefore, from the first moments of their studies, have opted for an invitation that is very responsible and for a call like I said at the beginning that cannot competently, professionally and lovingly do everyone. But back to the beginning I'll just repeat, here we all see and we've seen what it is and what are actually the points of reluctance and I'm going to say right at the beginning that I think that these reference points to the second reading is really I believe it is possible to solve with one quality two-way communication. So, as already colleagues and colleagues who have lied, the need to amend the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, which took place in Croatia for the first time in 2011, in fact, to comply with the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications from 2015 and, of course, as we are told, we are already aware of this and we are already aware that, during the public consultation, there have been therefore numerous reactions of professions in pre-school and school institutions, so when I say to the school, the public authority to conduct the procedure for the recognition of foreign qualifications for this profession, except for the masters of education rehabilitation in pre-school and pre-school institutions, so when I say to the school institutions of primary and secondary professions that here is the implications, therefore, such provisions will be a fact that one profession remains outside of education and that the institutions in fact, as well, the institutions in fact, in fact, in fact, the institutions in fact, the institutions in fact, the institutions in which are concerned, the institutions in which are concerned have been concerned in the institutions that are concerned. Of course, I would be back again now and, of course, all of us, who have discussed this so far in this way agreed that here until the second reading on this issue should be done just as well as on the directory problem, enrollment in the directory of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators where, as in the first case, educational rehabilitators who work in pre-school and school institutions that are therefore left out and in fact do not have an obligation to enroll themselves in the directory of the chamber which I would really agree with, in fact, that we can interpret it in a way that we really do this sort of solution by dividing the profession of educational rehabilitations towards where they are employed, so according to the place of my employment, which I personally think is not good because the profession is a profession and must be a profession with all our competences regardless of where they work. I will now take as little time as it allows me only to return to school, therefore in that part of the population of educational rehabilitators who as professional associates as pointed out here and they really are professional associates working in our schools whether to work with students, therefore, students with difficulties that they have included in the regular system, whether they work inside the school with students with difficulties that are in special, therefore, divided depending on the degree of difficulty. What I need here to emphasize under one, therefore, teacher, teacher, teacher, teacher, class classes, class classes that teach their course, really is not taught and there is no competence because during their initial education it really is not the focus of his education, it is not taught to work with students with difficulties. And the professional service, whether it's a psychologist, a pedagogue, a logopede or an educational rehabilitator, is extremely important to him, to help him. To help him respond in a competent way to the challenge of working with students in difficulty. Because what's the point? And what needs to be focused and what needs to be at the centre of attention. Students, kids, no matter who worked with them, and we don't care who works with them. They must be trained, a profession that is very specific and a profession that will be able and must respond to all the needs of students, working with a student with difficulties in a clearly defined and competent way. So, first of all, as a help to the teacher, in the regular system of primary and secondary schools, even kindergartens. So our goal is to include students with disabilities in the education system, where possible and to the level to which it is possible. On the other hand, in difficult cases, in order to facilitate working with such students, therefore, depending on the degree of their difficulties, students are therefore working with them in special grade departments or students attend other, therefore, centres, therefore, centres outside school institutions in which they are, therefore, also in a specific way. And now we have a situation that we have one criterion, in fact, for all those educational rehabilitationists who work in pre-school, primary and secondary institutions and all those who work in all other institutions, and therefore our students, our goal is to have children and our goal is to have a competent approach to such students. So it seems to me that there would be, and just because we have a trend that unfortunately more and more students in schools show up with an entire beauty, a whole spectrum of different difficulties. So many more educational rehabilitators, besides psychologists, besides educators, besides logos, are important experts in the system and they need to be taken into account. I will just mention briefly in one sentence, let us not forget that we have adopted the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, which should clearly be prescribed qualifications, including for educational rehabilitators that will be in line with the needs of the labour market. I believe that prescribing these qualifications will greatly help to solve some of these problems. And finally, I believe that until the second reading of this issue we can solve and, of course, understand both the need and the necessity and the importance of affecting and overseeing the Ministry of Science and Education over, therefore, and professional associates working in primary and secondary schools and kindergartens, but we also need to understand and understand the importance of empowering and supporting the chamber as a professional organisation. And I believe that, with one quality two-way communication, this problem can be solved and therefore, here you are, Madam Secretary of State is asking that a better solution be found by the second reading which will satisfy both sides. I think that's possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100484	Thank you, too. You have two replicas of Mr Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100485	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues Bedekovic, right out of your presentation, is actually a key question, and that is whether these children are, in fact, children we want to help or they just get a diagnosis. So, our kids show up in a school system where teachers who don't have, like you said, their qualifications are actually trying to do what they know best, and it's missing out on those kids to get through. But that doesn't mean it's best for the children themselves. And that's when we come up with a key problem. Someone should systematically act to provide funds for professionals who need to deal with topics that they can identify, who have a methodology of work at the end because it is not something they learn at a course that lasts for 20 days, but must be suspended and the funds must be provided. We get to the founders, these are the counties that should actually have either decentralised funds or some of their own that would just because... Because then we create people who later become a problem to the system in their, let's say, later life. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100486	Thank you very much. We have an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100487	I thank you for this replica. You've actually opened up another problem. So, I'll agree with you. You've opened up a problem, and I'd like to discuss it when it comes to that. So teaming of professional services at the level of primary and secondary schools with a team of experts. So, who is about to help a teacher, a teacher, a teacher who is simply not trained to do so, work with such students. So, teaming up school teams that make up both pedagogal and psychologist and logod and educational rehabilitator, in any case, society for, therefore, teaming teams, for their funding either at the founding level, either at the state level, therefore, and the key word is systematic, this problem must be approached and certainly found a solution because it has a mass of schools which, unfortunately, do not have teamed teams with experts, professional services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100488	The second line has Mr. Sagar, this is the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100489	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bedeković, of course, given your long-standing work in the system of education and education, you said perhaps the most important thing and now you have highlighted in the replica not only that many schools do not have teams, many schools do not have professional associates at all. These are big problems, I've worked alone long in that system and really the competences you need, you can't, you haven't gotten them through your basic education, and there you need the help of professional associates. And that's why your intensity, your debate that I fully support is in this direction that every young man who gets a degree must, with that degree, acquire all the rights that belong to him by law. No professional association, not even a chamber, must reduce those rights. Even more so, we must help our rights to achieve an even more respectful rule of course. In that sense, there should be no conflict, and with you, I agree with the Ministry of Labour, I'm sorry, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education must do everything possible to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100490	Thank you, too. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100491	This is how I'm going to say my colleague, I believe, and I believe that the solution can be found, and I also believe in good intentions both of the Ministry and of the other Ministry, and for this very reason, and I call for quality, two-way communication between all stakeholders and I firmly believe that this problem is possible until the second reading. Thank you very much for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100492	Thank you, too. The next personal or individual debate is Mr. Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100493	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here's my opinion that this bill is deeply unfair to one profession, it's a profession of educational rehabilitators. And instead of strengthening professions that are as well known and as mine and previous speakers have said that this profession is actually deficient and that in the system and education and education but also in other systems where the profession of educational rehabilitators really needs that they are not missing. And we're sending this bill a message that we don't really want it to be a regulated activity, a regulated profession, but we're actually dividing people and eliminating the equality of the members of this profession, so educational rehabilitation activities, so we're separating them according to the workplace. So there is actually no such example in either case, if we can say this to a similar profession, from psychologists, and even you have in the debate how much I saw in public consultation and the proposal of the Law on Social Pedagogical Activity where, in fact, that profession if you put under the authority of one chamber of course, it is the urgency that it joins in the chamber that the chamber has significant public powers to actually take care of professional training but that this activity is actually carried out according to the highest standards, professional standards. In order to support this, in fact, I can also explain what Article 8 of this Law does in my opinion, in fact, one discrimination which says that educational rehabilitators are employed in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Health, as well as holders of independent professions, professional activities, so they are not equated with the rights of members of the same profession in accessing educational rehabilitation activities in institutions of education and education. Therefore, these first mentions must satisfy the conditions for carrying out their activities in accordance with the general and specific regulations of the relevant ministries and the prescribed conditions of the competent professional chamber, and the latter are derived from that as an exception although they are therefore the same professions. So I think it's deeply unfair and it's actually not a good organization when we look at in general this activity. So this Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Educational Rehabilitation Activity is in the section that would guarantee an initial purpose. Therefore, the fundamental intensity of this law was to fully and uniformly regulate the activities of educational rehabilitators, which is of course one of the most important preconditions for the implementation of national social inclusion policies with disabilities as quickly and as quickly as possible. So such a proposal in formal legal and substantive disproportionateness and cohesion with the same purpose. And for this reason, I think it is good that in this first reading, we point out once again and give the proposer the opportunity to, together with the relevant stakeholders, so with the representatives of the chamber of educational rehabilitators, with experts, representatives of the faculty of educational rehabilitation so as to the faculty and other members and working groups, so the ministry to once again consider all these observations in which we can say that we are more or less even clubs are more or less, we can say that they have a common denominator that everyone agrees that this remark is something that in some way holds water and that opens up space to the proposer in fact to withdraw one such proposal that will cause permanent damage to this activity, this profession and I think that this is a bad message and for all those young people who have decided to study in this university and for this direction because we are actually giving the message that they are actually going to enter into one uncertainty, indetermination and that it will be very well qualified in the future and it will be a well qualified place. For this reason, I cannot support such a proposal and appeal for this injustice to be corrected until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100494	Thank you. You have two replicas. First they'll be replicating Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100495	Thank you very much, Zmajlovic, in your discussion you have absolutely accurately surgically detected the problems that have been found in this law, because it is a profession that is too important for our society, which is unfortunately not appreciated enough. When we look at what these people's salaries are, their status is essentially seen and what kind of message is being sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and by society regarding the work of educational rehabilitators. And when we see that in full-time fosterers get between 4-5,5 thousand kn, the question is whether it is a wage worthy of what they do and how much they contribute to our society and our children and everything that they do, of course, to those children in life. And that is why I fully support your really constructive and thorough debate, that these illogicalities until the second reading of the document, but also to improve the standard of educational rehabilitators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100496	Thank you very much, thank you for understanding. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100497	Thank you very much here, colleague Maras, I'm glad that you, too, from a special experience, can speak from the environment of your neighbor, I know that in your family, a lot of people, a person does a similar job, so you can do it this way and back it up, and I absolutely agree with you. I don't want to believe that there's some hidden intention, that this kind of injustice is done. I want to believe that this may be some misunderstanding, for which there is enough time, that here, until the second reading, everything will be clear and that on these benches we will have a proposal that will not weaken this profession, but also further strengthen it and ensure a level playing field on the labour market, or even better than it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100498	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the answer, yeah, there's another replica, Mrs. Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100499	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Zmajlović, you have mentioned very nicely, what is also important, and these are our young, young people who study education rehabilitation and here, we have students there present and follow what we are saying, and therefore I think it is indeed the responsibility of us all as we make the law, because this law, therefore, they will know what fate awaits them, where they will be able to work, how valuable it will be that they are now studying and how valuable it will be, how they will be when they enter the world of work. Because if in this law, which is there, we separate them, so they're actually sending some message, that this profession might not be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100500	Thank you very much, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100501	Thank you very much. My colleague, Alfirev, absolutely agrees with you and I am taking the opportunity to welcome students and students of the educational rehabilitation college who, I suppose, are following us and I agree that I will repeat what I said, that it is extremely important that these laws, which are held in the debate in the Assembly and which the Assembly brings us to send poor negative messages to certain professions. So it's the same college where you have a few three main professions, right, there's logos and social pedagogues, so, that have one way of setting up a system, so, firmly chambered, and educational rehabilitators, they don't actually have that with this proposal. And no one has, and not that there's a relevant answer here to that question, why I'm doing it. So the same college, three directions, three different professions, maybe equally difficult and demanding in work and practice. I don't know it personally, but I do know a lot of people who do it, a really demanding profession, and I think that... We must not allow that, therefore, it is not a matter of politics and parties but of something that will remain for the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100502	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mrs Sabina the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with an associate. I think your ministry has referred to two other laws of a similar nature, one law, and not this is the Ministry of Health, one is a law that regulates psychological activity, and the other is your law that needs to regulate social pedagogical activity and this law in question that we are discussing today. What is imposed as indifference, but also in the first respect of these 3 laws, is that psychologists and social educators, regardless of where they work, and taking into account only the fact that the activity they are dealing with will be responsible for their professional work and supervision of their work and the need to enroll in the register in fact according to their activity, will be responsible only for the structural chamber. The law you are proposing here today is the only exception, employees, educational rehabilitators, i.e. educational rehabilitation activities, which have completed the same colleges doing the professional work, will be shared depending on the establishment in which they work. If they work in an educational institution, for their work, for their supervision, professional supervision of them, they will be responsible for the Ministry of Science and Education, and if they work in the social care system, they will have jurisdiction over them, which is logically, the Chamber of Experts. It is, in my opinion, deep, not only unjustly, but deeply confusing and unnecessary to bring riots into one system, into one group, professional employees. What's even more illogical is that the Ministry of Social Policy, or the Ministry of Social Affairs, is now I'm going to say it in a Colloquial sense because its names are constantly changing and it's actually been the problem that's been going through for years, and the Ministry of Education has failed to regulate certain things, and I'm also carrying part of the responsibility for that, and we've failed to regulate certain things. So today you have a Centre for Education and Education, which is children with difficulties, which for some reason are illogical, unfounded, under the authority of the Ministry of Social Affairs, I'm going to say Colloquial again, because they were different ministries as they were called, and other such institutions are in the system, under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education. You will now, by this law, mean there is no logic there, we have failed to resolve it, there have been legal peripetia, and I hope that some minister, perhaps even in this mandate or later, will come out of it, and put everything under one roof, because the activity they conduct is the same, in them are children with developmental difficulties, according to special programmes, in these institutions is conducted education, but also this part, as I would say staying, which has to do with the social care system. Now, what are you doing with this law? In such a distasteful system that we have, it is another argument to change your attitude between the first and second readings, you have, for example, one Center for Education and Education, which the students of children with difficulties in Sibenik, is responsible for the Ministry of Social Care, and the second Center for Education and Education in Čakovec, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. And now, an employee of the Educational Rehabilitator in Sibenik must be enrolled in the Chamber, must pay membership fee to the Chamber, professional training must be carried out which the Chamber prescribes, the sea, its professional work is under the supervision of the Chamber, educational rehabilitators or educational rehabilitation workers. And this in Čakovec, none of it must, although they are actually doing the same job, their same profession, and they are giving their professional knowledge, skills and competences to the system or children with difficulties. It is not normal, and it is not logical, but’ it is only one additional argument, it must not be a key argument. The key argument is the one I told you. So you in the system have psychologists, you in the education system have educators, you in the education system still have 30 social workers, you have social educators. They all have one thing in common, and that's that they're members of a professional Chamber, that it's logical that this Chamber of Experts actually regulates certain rules of the profession, improves the rules of the profession, and that we can't erase the fact that these people have been professionally directed for the same job. Now, whether life has taken them to the area of education or the field of social care, must not be a relevant factor in determining their further progress, working in the profession, because they remain the profession that they are, only their professional services provide different systems. Secondly, when we talk about regulated professions, we have had a lot of problems as a state, because we have in some way welcomed the unprepared entry into the European Union and the Free Trade Directive, and we have all had to adapt together in all ministries, that we must ensure that every person coming from abroad or from the European Union, in order to enable her to find a job in accordance with her education in the Republic of Croatia. And all of us in the Ministry have had to find ways and prescribe regulations how we will check their, what are the conditions that we will determine, that they must satisfy the knowledge of Croatian language, which are professional competences that must be satisfied, which must be harmonised or similar to those in Croatia and which are additional competences, in order to master the language they must perfect in order to work in Croatian hospitals, Croatian schools, Croatian social care centres, and so on, and so on. Now let me ask you. Educational rehabilitators are also, it is a regulated profession, and they, there is a process of recognising foreign, not educational but professional qualifications, because they are broader than foreign ones, some person comes from abroad and wants to enter, has the right to enter the labour system, the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, and now I'm interested, how will this person, if we have 2 regulatory bodies in recognising foreign professional qualifications, whom will this educational rehabilitation coming from abroad address? Will the Chamber or the Ministry of Education address him to recognise him as an foreign professional qualification that we as the Republic of Croatia have to provide him with otherwise we pay for penalties and fines? Who will he address if he still doesn't know which segment of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia will end? Whether he ends up in the education system or he ends up in the care system or we force him to go to the Ministry of Education and to the Chamber to get two of some kind of, I mean, it's simple, respected secretary of state, illogically, and it's not good, and this isn't the simple way. We had various shortcomings in the operation of various Chambers, starting with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and then on and on very often there is public mistrust with the Chambers, because it is the impression that the only purpose of their existence is actually to take money from membership fees and spend them more or more transparently. But let's take another approach, let's not look at the Chamber here fighting just for a piece of some kind of cake, for some kind of membership, for some urgency, that I don't know how to conduct, professional exams, let's watch how to reform and work the Chamber, force them to work on improving their services to really care about improving their profession, but let's make it an expert to conduct surveillance and to improve their profession. By this law, you are in fact saying that the chamber is competent to assess professional competences to carry out education-rehabilitation activities and to issue insurance approvals for access to the regulated market only under certain conditions and depending on where they will be employed, it does not make sense. The profession is a profession, and the job in which you will end up giving your professional competences is something completely different but here are the pots. I appeal to you to actually consider the solutions in question which, although I really don't think that the problem here is so much in your ministry, but in a working group where they couldn't agree with the views of the Ministry of Education and the competent chamber and in this bill, they broke over the back of the chamber in favour of the Ministry of Education, and I'm afraid the Ministry of Education didn't understand the point of the story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100504	Time. ... Mrs. Maria Alfirev asked for a replica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100505	Thank you. Comrade Voter, here I will refer to this last of yours in fact to the importance of roles and the understanding of chambers in our country. Unfortunately for some cases, the chambers have actually come to a bad vote, but I would also like to point out that professional chambers in this case, the Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators have actually been doing volunteer work for all these six years, working in conditions that you haven't actually mentioned in some other cases, so they're actually concerned with the need. I would also like to ask you, what about all this, when you were talking about the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the media often says that our schools are full of logos from Medjugorje?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100506	Time. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100507	Thank you very much. You guys don't have to defend the chamber from me. The fact is that the education system exists, that the education system is crying out for professional staffs and educational rehabilitators. It's also a fact that our colleges unfortunately only enter 55, I think, 55 people a year at college. The fact is that people go through a line of less resistance, go to Medjugorje and end some short courses there, I'll dare say a word because it lasts two years compared to these five years, and then what they do, they enter the education system. You know why? Because the chamber doesn't have to identify them, it doesn't have to give any approval for their work and the Ministry of Education based on what, an estimate and that the green light that they can enter the system after they completed their course in Medjugorje in 2 years and our system is crying out for such people, our system does not produce a sufficient number of educational and rehabilitation workers. That's what I mean, nonsens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100508	Thank you. Let's move on, we're done with the replicas, right? Let's move on, Mr. Maras will have an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100509	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is evident from the debate so far that this law in the first reading needs to be discussed, until the second reading many things to be corrected, here are colleagues and Glasovac and Alfirev in their discussions and the main problems related to certain standards, education, control, because this is not about anything, this is about a very valuable profession that is needed by our society and which is unfortunately insufficiently appreciated and undervalued in the Republic. I also agree that unfortunately the ministry, which should also be significantly involved in the whole process and the adoption of this law, did not make its biggest contribution, it is the Ministry of Science and Education and these problems of certain standards or education of people, and the possibility that someone does not have certain knowledge and qualifications and yet is engaged in this profession in the Republic of Croatia, I think that, until the second reading, it should be removed, or that we should prevent any improvisation and any possible development of events that will go to the harm of our children and of course the persons who need educational rehabilitators. On that side and the role of the chamber is not like in some other chambers because we have a lot of parasite chambers in the Republic of Croatia, chambers such as the Chamber of Commerce, crafts chambers, which unfortunately suck our entrepreneurs and craftsmen are one and have a very negative role in our society while these chambers, professional chambers dealing with them, said colleague Alfirev, quite often and voluntaryly, without some fee but with the desire of the profession in some way progress, that certain standards are respected are useful and should be strengthened and should be sought out to be independent of the institution, to the level of whether it is under state or under the city or county, that these standards are respected or that we always have the security that people know their work and that they are accredited for certain things. It is one thing when you graduate from the university in the city of Zagreb or at the University of Zagreb and the other is when you get a degree as said by your colleague Glasovac in Medjugorje and when you cannot be sure that the person is competent to do so. The message that is particularly surprising is the message sent by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we already had several discussions this year about the status of people involved in this business and the reduction of certain material rights in the system of material rights in the system. I'm just the opposite of what it was about this year. I think that these people need to be rewarded more, that they need to be invested more, because all of us who have children in the education system, we meet them through classes or kindergartens of our children, and we see basically how valuable and conscious they are doing their job and how much they really need our education system. And then send a message that the salaries or material rights of those employees will be several hundred kunas smaller, and for everything else we have money, so it's almost amazing. So, where it should be invested in the Republic of Croatia, it does not normally invest, and where it is not to be invested and where it simply reads voices, it invests there, regardless of what is in common for our society, and therefore I would like it to be a state secretary and all those who care about it, Minister Murganić, Minister Divjak, and finally Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic clearly say and live behind that profession and in some way improve the material rights of those people, to ensure the funds that are enough for example for schools or educational institutions, because it is quite often that they cannot employ enough people because they do not have enough resources and we always have problems about it in the system, and it is very clear that the Republic wants to separate more in this direction or that it is one of the priorities that we should have as a country because it simply cannot be subject to some other interests that are, therefore, the government in this institution, or in this way. I therefore strongly advocate that until the second reading of the correcting all these illogicalities in the law, to strengthen the role of the profession itself, the chamber, to level the criteria depending on the jurisdiction of the institutions whether it is a state institution or a ministry that is competent or a municipality, county or city and that these things are simply correct. And it's good that the law is in two readings, I'm sure in the meantime we'll make the best possible solution. It is good to listen to colleagues who, as a colleague of Alfirev, engaged or engaged before becoming MPs or advocates in HS because people have direct experience. There's also a colleague of Sladolev's who worked at school. It also has certain direct experiences and needs to listen to all the quality proposals that MPs here will say and that will enable us to ultimately have a better quality law and that ultimately our society will benefit as much as possible from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100510	Thank you, too. Mrs. Voter asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100511	Oh, yeah, I'm a colleague of Maras. This law will unfortunately divide the members of the profession which, as I would say, is somehow in turn in the Republic of Croatia, and needs our education system too much. I read somewhere that every third child has difficulty in speech and that every 5,000 children have one logo. Logopedes are a separate profession, but unforgivable when we talk about the need for such professionals in our education system and the need for a wise policy of human potential management. It means that the Croatian education system delivers a sufficient number of personnel, among other things, and the Croatian education system, which would certainly be educational rehabilitators, not that we have cases like this that we need to import labour from other countries, while our people walk the streets of the Republic of Croatia. Or on the other hand that they have to go to Medjugorje for a short two-year course because there are simply not enough people to enroll, they cannot be entered here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100512	Time. Mr. Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100513	I'm sure of this thesis that you said was missing professionally and, I would say quality and educated labour in the Republic of Croatia in this area because we witness almost every year when this topic takes place at the beginning of the school year, and then we testify that the state doesn't exactly invest too much money, that there are always some problems. So once again, we don't pay enough attention to that. That's what we're discussing here today. The illogicalities of a political solution to what is, unfortunately, important for the ruling party are resolved over the knee and in haste, and these things have not been resolved for years. Once again I say, the material rights of these people, at the age of going, are reduced better, which is completely illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100514	You've wasted your time, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100515	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100516	Let's move on. Mrs Sonja Cikotic, individual debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100517	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We had this argumentable and quality discussion quite an opportunity to hear, from the same colleague, Alfirev, who had a previous experience in the profession. It's not just an occupation, it's an invitation. Being an educational rehabilitation, meaning, an expert, to dedicate your life to that profession, means actually to accept an invitation to help someone who needs help. Today, many young people really want to be bold about this invitation and make them throughout their working lives. However, the Republic of Croatia does not have sufficient quota of enrolment for that interest, although you are marketing for the work of the latter. The law itself needs to be significantly improved to a second reading because there have been numerous objections to it through the manifesting of the chamber, through the work of associations, through individuals. A large number of public stakeholders through public consultation, and the ministry did not dare even explain in more detail why the expert's proposals are being rejected. Such a way of making the law increases the lack of trust in the profession in the achievement and objectives of lawmaking. Problems with the work of the chamber, recognition of foreign diplomas related to the labour market and the fact that the educational rehabilitation activity is regulated in the Republic of Croatia are listed. In fact, problems also relate to employee rights in the social care, health or education system by bringing an employee into a more unfavourable position depending on the place of work or by choosing their future employer. We ask the Ministry to prepare for the second reading, to complete this bill to carry out consultations with the academic community it has shared, and not to be divided, representatives of professional associations and chambers, and to respect all specificities of the work of the profession, whose work reflects thousands of children and young people in the Republic of Croatia and thousands of persons located in different institutions that depend on the training of this profession on a day-to-day basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100518	Thank you, too. Replica no, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100519	Thank you very much, colleague Chikotic. You have said something here that I expect the secretary of state to be manifest. So the point is that the public debate is not only to be formally fulfilled and that someone there could make certain remarks. Instead, we want to hear how the public debate was held, how the ministry was manifested, and you have this misunderstanding and those who are interested in the public did not get the right and quality answers from the ministry. So, too many things are said here that the secretary of state would just keep it quiet like this and without any comment, I pray for it to be obvious because it's very important. Let's see how many objections there were, we had a law the other day with a few thousand objections when the Minister was here, too much is missing out on this thing without even the government reacting at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100520	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer Mrs. Chikotić?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100521	I think it's Can you do that? [[Intruder: A new method now asks if you want to answer.]] Uh, colleague Maras [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] My fellow Maras thank you for the replica, it is extremely important that the law is processed, it is extremely important that the ministry as executive authority communicates with the interested public because respect and reasoned responses to observations through public consultation citizens can get trust in institutions which are the main problem according to the report of the ombudsman, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have a strong mistrust in institutions and this is one segment of why it is so. [[/Intruder: For a time there will be, it will be for a time. Here you go.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100522	Thank you. I would remind you that in response to the replica, you need to raise a pair like Mr. Maras had done before, that's according to the Rules of Procedure, yes, but today is such a day, so let's move on, Mr. Tomislav Panenić, final word in front of the Association of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100523	Thank you very much, Vice President. The fact is that in many areas of the Republic of Croatia, the need for such a frame is immensely large, it is much bigger than this debate we are having today, and in fact someone who has real problems kind of sees this as not talking about content but talking about form. The form that was created, in fact, I would say has a foothold in both Croatia and BiH politics, according to areas where they live according to the education method, we have set ourselves up here and simplified that we want to raise the standard of education in both Croatia and among Croats living abroad, where the establishment and with our support of a number of higher education and other institutions where our teachers come there to educate students where a lot of students come from the Republic, and then finally we are going to question the coherence of these programmes, to question how someone who went there should study, to work with us, to recognize and to actually create a single outreach that is being discussed, just through these amendments, but we haven't solved the problem, we haven't solved that there are enough students enrolled in us, that we have filled all the needs, to help the leaders, the leaders of schools and those other people who have the needs of the school who have had to take on boards, but we don't really got to get into the unskilled, and we't really got to be qualified. Someone who hasn't even dealt with the subject, someone who doesn't make a decision so doesn't deal with the problem of children, someone who chooses a solution to something called a course, I would have stayed in it again, you can't blame anyone who's gone to educate yourself somewhere by some law found that the program that our children are being educated, or waiting for what's worse, that our education system of these 50 students who are enrolling is going to create enough personnel. I think we've created really one of the detachments where here today we're trying to iron something instead of really saying what needs are, which are professional teams that need to be trained, how many of them have to be by our child, that and these young people who are right up there, so you're going to be able to sign up, the needs are extremely large, so as we respond to the labour market in all others, is how much work import permits are actually required for this activity, we're dealing with a building in which it is insufficient, we're dealing with not knowing the shipbuilding that has insufficient personnel, we're dealing with tourism where there are insufficient personnel, we're issuing permits, and we're still not dealing with what we should and that're providing enough work that comes out of the education system. I am also pleased that those who enter these studies in Croatia, that they can count on jobs, but we are also not so that there are a number of directions that our young people end up studying and can not ultimately exercise the right to work but go abroad. And then, we can just say that the system is simply not tailored to the needs, the needs of primarily parents who already have difficulty identifying a child with development problems or secretly do not want to recognize, ask that someone through their educational work, recognize it, to commit themselves to that child institutionally, and we actually traveled to get through it. So the diagnosis, we all know here, the interest is being shown here and here by listening to this debate. But I'm afraid that the solution will remain within some framework, which may be a future time, while it simply won't be recognized that maybe 200-300 completed educational people who will be, cover this spectrum and then solve the real problem. But in this way he realizes whether the chamber will admit to someone, not create doubts, we should first say what can be said, which cannot be determined by the fate of those who want to be educated in that part and who want to help our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100524	Thank you, too. Now Madam Secretary of State Margareta Majeric will have the final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs, distinguished students and students of the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty, professors, I thank you all for the discussion and attention you have shown under this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Educational Rehabilitation Activity. These proposals and remarks will be considered when drawing up a draft final draft law. As I pointed out at the very beginning, the aim of the adoption of this law is to bring the conditions for performing educational rehabilitation as a regulated profession, as well as in part of the public authority of the Croatian Chamber of Educational Rehabilitators. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Labour, the Law on Psychological Activity, the Law on Social Pedagogical Activity and, as far as possible, respecting, naturally and any activity for ourselves, we will try to level the principles of those laws. I would like to point out here once again, that the list of regulated professions included an expert associate in the follow-up as a regulated profession, titled professional co-worker in the follow-up, also takes into account educational rehabilitators. The competent authority for the above-mentioned regulated profession is the Ministry of Science and Education, therefore, by this proposal by draft law, which is here in the first reading, we have such a solution. And she would certainly once again point out here, there are no colleagues of MP Maras, but I believe she will hear, on the i-consultation, a report on the implementation of a consultation with the interested public, exactly all the proposals have been published, therefore, all opinions and any objections with a clear indication of our ministry. So the ministry was obvious, and that's on the page. i-consumptions and published on literally all the observations that have come and this is visible and can be verified on the page. I-Consultations. Thank you very much again for your attention and for your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100526	Thank you very much. Before I give the replica to Mrs. Glasovac, I want to say hello, they are mixed up with students, a group of athletes and athletes from the Cross. ... Now I will give the word to Mrs. Voter, as a replica. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, you do not have to listen to me, my colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Assembly, you do not have to listen to the remarks or the chamber which made its remarks to the public debate, you do not have to listen to the remarks of students or students of the Faculty of Education, but here, listen to the comments of the Ombudsman for children, because if we all speak from some of our perspectives, it certainly speaks from the perspective of protecting the interests of children in this case of children with disabilities and standards that they will receive from the experts of the educational rehabilitation profile which they give their services and expertise to them, regardless of which system they were in, and whether it is a system of education or a system of social care. I appeal to you, to think about some solutions and expect that here in the second reading will come a major amended law, which will not do the aggregate within the profession, and later to be aggregated inside children.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100528	The answer to the replica, Mrs. Mađeric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100529	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, as I pointed out during this debate, the proposal for this draft of this law, which is in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, is the result of the work of the working group and the competent opinions of the competent authorities. I think we understand each other well in this final part, but also during the replicas, I have made it clear, and I thanked everyone who participated in the debate, because I think it's extremely important that we have a constructive and quality discussion about, one of these laws. That we will take a good look at all the comments, as we did during the i-consultation, all the comments and proposals, and we have made clear on them and, until the second reading, we propose a proposal for a final draft law, which will be the result of the proposal and the working group and, of course, the opinions of the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100530	Thank you very much. I thank the secretary of state and all the colleagues and colleagues who participated in the debate, which was substantial, good, so I conclude it. We'll have another debate in the second reading and we'll vote on this first one, about this first reading when the conditions are obtained, more or less on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100531	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, first reading, PZ No 406, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Rehabilitation, and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 FOR and 1 FOR COUNTRY, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100532	Now we move on to the next bill. - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnapping, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 377; As you can see, a very important law. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law and amendments can therefore be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Does Mrs Margareta Mađeric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy want to introduce this final bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100533	... Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] The final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnap is before us. Namely, the Convention was signed in The Hague on 25 October 1980. The Republic of Croatia has been a party to the Convention since 8 October 1991. This law does not reproduce the material provisions of the Convention but regulates in detail the conduct of administrative bodies and courts in the Republic of Croatia to the extent that the Convention itself leaves such discretion to States Parties to the Convention, taking into account the progressive implementation of the Convention. The law is broadly in line with the recommendations of the Hague Conference on International Private Law. At its 8th session, the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a law implementing the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnap, which it adopted in its conclusion of 6 July 2018. By making comments and proposals to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. The Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament made its remarks, there were no other objections to the bill. We accepted the comments of the Legislative Committee, which were nomotechnical in nature and were also in line with the opinions of all the competent authorities. The final text of the proposal for a Convention of the Law is not significantly amended in relation to the draft law. There is no need to provide additional resources in the budget for the implementation of this Act and I therefore propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt a Law implementing the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnapping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100534	Thank you very much. You have one replica. Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100535	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state. The proposal for this law, i.e. in the final proposal for evaluations and the source of the necessary means of implementation, states that they are not necessary, so I would now ask about the fact that in the procedure itself it is known that the central authority can call the party to the obvious, that party may be someone, which is intended to be a stranger. And also there would be a need to provide certain means for translators. Likewise, when we talk about certain translations that will be or will be needed in such materials, if we talk about the Convention specifically with which we are harmonising, so is the assessment of certain means of translation. So whether these are secured by another item or not, or perhaps you should provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100536	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100537	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, employees working in the central body who are part of our ministry speak foreign languages and during this and communication are also provided with translation and communication with non-Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100538	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Domagoj Mikulić, outside the HDZ club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100539	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, state secretary Mađeric, with co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnap is set before us, which for its primary purpose is to protect the interests and welfare of the child and it is very important that we discuss it and adopt it. As we heard from State Secretary of the Convention was signed in The Hague in 1980, Croatia has been a party to this Convention since 1991. Certain non-compliances of domestic rules with the Convention have been established and, with the European Court of Human Rights' rulings in cases against the Republic of Croatia, it is justified that the ministry of adoption of this single law should regulate all aspects relating to the application of the Convention and allow for more effective implementation. The proposed law, which is before us, lays down the jurisdiction, powers and conduct of the central body, courts and other bodies with the aim of the swift return of the taken or detained child with respect to the interest and well-being of the child himself. The definition of the part-round of all participants in the process will certainly allow for precise determination of measures, deadlines of conduct, one up-to-date and coordinated action in order to quickly return the child taken or detained. This proposal provides for the establishment of one court in the Republic of Croatia which will be responsible for the conduct of the Convention in the first instance and for the determination of one court in the second instance. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In order to identify the place where the child is to be brought before the competent court and to carry out the exercise, an application for return of the child to the Republic of Croatia shall be prescribed and the method of handling the request for return to the Republic of Croatia and the requirement for contact with the child shall also be prescribed. The adoption of this bill will create a legal and institutional framework for the effective application of the Convention, all in accordance with the recommendation of the Hague Conference to protect the best interests and welfare of the child in the best possible way. In accordance with all of the above, the HDZ Club will support this final proposal for a law implementing the Convention on civil and legal visions of international child abduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100540	You, too. Now it's Mrs Bernarda Topolko's turn in front of the Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100541	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed secretary of state with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, it would refer to the fact that market freedoms, enhanced human mobility, the freedom of movement of workers as one of the cornerstones of the functioning of the common market within the EU borders, as well as third countries lead to the internationalisation of family life, as well as the internationalisation of family law, since the legal regulation of family relations is shifted from one country's jurisdiction to another. Similarly, divorce of marriage or separation of the family community increasingly leads to child rights threats in such a way that parents do not cooperate with regard to parental care, do not exchange information about the child, meetings and association with other parents are not maintained or maintained to a lesser extent than is specified in a court decision or no decision at all. In particular, such situations are expressed when it comes to cross-border family relations and especially when it comes to cases where one parent or another person unlawfully takes or retains a child in another country other than the child’s usual residence. Each national legal order is consistent while we can say that, before a number of challenges, legal relations are faced with a series of legal rules to be applied in such cases. In order to ensure rapid and effective treatment between the countries, in order to protect the rights of the child to both parents and also the right of that parent who does not live with the child to have parental care, the Republic of Croatia shall apply the Hague Convention on the Civil and Legal aspects of international child abduction, which has been in force on the basis of a succession since 5 April 1993. The aim of the Convention is to ensure that as soon as possible the return of a child who has been illegally taken or detained in a Contracting State. Also, ensure that the rights to care and contact with a child under the law of one State Contracting Party are truly respected in another State Contracting Parties. The Convention shall apply to a child who lived in a Contracting State immediately before any infringement of the right to care or contact and shall cease to apply when the child is 16 years of age. Just one thing is essential in such cases and that is the speed of action at all stages of the procedure and the key operational principle for all bodies involved in the application of the Convention. Namely, the speed of treatment reduces the risk of a change in the location of the child, reduces the possibility of harming the child, reduces the risk of adapting the child to new circumstances that make it difficult to carry out the decision to return the child, prevents or restricts any advantage from being taken over by the time. The speed of the procedure also requires discretion and humanity in handling, and the time to intervene for peaceful dispute resolution. We all know that procedures are usually conducted longer than prescribed by the Convention, so I hope that this law on the implementation of the same law will help to move faster in the light of the clear competence and powers of the bodies participating in the procedure. I can't help but mention that we've recently had the opportunity to have a child whose time and slow management of the system brought great trauma to return to the country from which he was taken away and to continue his relationship with his parents. As for the very final proposal of this law, but in the title of the same law, we have noticed a change in the name of the Convention that has not been applied so far. Namely, at the official site of the Hague Conference and the Central catalogue of official documents of the Republic of Croatia which is used for translation, so far it has been in application of the Convention on Civil law aspects of international child abduction and now the final proposal of the Law in the name of the Convention instead of the word "spectrums" has the word "videos". So, in the debate, we have a final proposal on the implementation of a convention that I still don't know how we're going to officially translate it. Now, that's where we come up with the first question, chicken or egg? Whether the resolution ministry should have been first published in the National Journal, the official text of the Convention, and then the law on the implementation of the Convention. In any case, we appeal to the Proposer to put into the procedure the publication of the official text of the Convention as soon as possible in order to comply with the final proposal for this law. It is also from Art. 6. The last custodians from the Centre for Special Care will also be represented by children in these cases with an international element. So we hope that, as founder of that institution, the resolution ministry will also take care of the capacity of the staff in that institution, not just in the capacities of the central body. Although at the annual level, there are not many child abductions, we should not ignore the amount of items that the special custody centre normally has in the works. Only a unit in Zagreb has received 6 special custodians since the beginning of this year. And we know what kind of sensitive problem these things are. As regards the financial component for the implementation of this law. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Paragraph 6 of the Central Authority or the Court of Justice may invite the party to make a personal statement of the facts to be stated In such cases, the party may also be a foreigner, so we point out to the ministry that it also plans funds for translators. Namely, we heard the State Secretary's argument that office employees speak foreign languages, however, I will point out there that speaking I suppose eng. possibly another official language but to move away children can be from both Poland and the Czech Republic and France and other countries. But in such cases, the party may be a stranger and we also point out that financial resources are being planned on the translators again. The courts are obliged to plan these funds under the law in a litigation procedure prescribed by the interpreters. However, in the evaluations and sources of the necessary means to implement this law, I did not notice that this item is also taken into account for the central body, regardless of the amount of funds. I also did not notice that it was taken into account the amount of funds for translation into Croatian, which will ensure that the central body is in art. Article 9(3) It is often a matter of extensive documentation whose translation price from authorised interpreters is high and should also be taken into account. It underlines authorised interpreters, because such ones, they must be. Taking into account the practice and behaviour of the central authorities of other countries, I note that, with the powers to perform all tasks quickly and effectively other than qualifications, the central body should have appropriate material resources, such as: video communication devices, the possibility of continuous education, appropriate literature, and for which, again, the evaluation and sources of the necessary resources have not been taken into account. Next, in Art. Article 12(4) provides that family meditation is conducted by family mediators for cross-border disputes. How many such people are in the Republic of Croatia? Two, three, is there enough? Whom people will choose in view of such a narrow specialization precisely for cross-border disputes. The more we can see in the register of family mediators, the more we haven't found in the framework of the training of mediators, highlighted by such specialization for cross-border disputes, the HNS Club is considering an amendment to delete these words. We believe that very high-quality mediation can also be performed by all those mediators who have completed a prominent mediation, mediation of parental and other disputes about children, and thus offer a greater choice of persons among them. What in this proposal is a complete newspaper, for the time being, is the concentration of jurisdiction, which is that only the municipal civil court in Zagreb will decide on the requirements, while only the County Court in Zagreb will decide on appeal. This stems from the HAG's recommendation to the conference, and has proved extremely effective in other countries in Germany, England, only one court for all of England in London. This creates one point of contact in the Member State in relation to courts and bodies in other countries, equates competition behaviour, extends the experience of judges working on these cases, resulting in better quality and faster treatment in accordance with the objectives of the Convention. As an objection to such a solution, it was possible to hear what was right to access to justice. I must point out, however, that in such cases, usually work in one hearing, since the court, based on all the evidence collected and the fact that it decides on the return of the child to the country from which it comes or remains because of the potential risks to the child in that other country, and the parties can also be declared in writing. So that is where we should balance these two principles that oppose, which are the speed of action and access to justice. In order to implement this law, the final ministry needs to develop the necessary resources more clearly, but it stands out as an implementing law in an operational sense to help more effectively implement the Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100542	Thank you, too. We now have students and students of the Economic and Birotechnical and Commercial School from Zadar with their teachers. Let's give them a round of applause. Thank you for being with us. [[Applause.]] And we're moving on with our work. Mr. Orsat Milenic in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Very briefly, so we'll support the bill. What we consider to be extremely good is to define the procedure, to clearly define the responsibility and who should be doing it and to define the deadlines. Unfortunately, I think the Republic of Croatia has already lost its cases twice before the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, the human rights court precisely because the returns lasted too long, much beyond the standards expected by a country such as Croatia, which therefore respects its convention obligations. So this is something that's good, that we support. We hope that it will go, that the implementation means going, I think you wrote that the average is 130 days, that it will go towards some 6 weeks which should be the average. Let us not forget that although these items do not have much, 10, 15 years old, which require the return of the child to the Republic of Croatia and less than 10 in which the return from the Republic of Croatia is sought, they are always sensitive, difficult objects and whenever the child is concerned, it is of course important that the decision is taken but no less important that the decision is made quickly and the whole situation is resolved. The worst thing for a child and for a society is when a thing stretches, when jurisdiction is transferred from one body to another, from one institution to another, when there is no knowledge of what it is for, and who suffers, always suffers the one who is the weakest, in this case the child and his parents, or the parent from which the child is wrongly taken. So we absolutely support it, I think you've set up the system well, you know who's doing what. This solution with one court, one court of appeal in Zagreb, you may have been able to put some others on the table because of the burden, but you must have consulted, and then you decided and there are people who specialize, who know how to do it. And I think that's a great solution. I think the only thing I'm not going to say is criticism, but I'm only careful about what's being said that it won't need the resources, and I think that, potentially, because of education, maybe some people, etc., might need it, but it's up to you to get along with the budget and find it. So here's the longer one, we'll support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100544	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Mato Čičak's turn, and that's how we move on to individual debates. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk. He's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100545	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us today, there is the Final Proposal of the Law on which it aims to protect the interests and welfare of the child, the Law is in line with the recommendations of the Hague Convention on International Law and the Hague Convention is in force in 93 countries, the Republic of Croatia has been party to this Convention since '91. A year. This law lays down the authority of the implementing bodies of the Conventions, which are courts, centres for social care and the police. In high - risk litigation, the child is always the victim of a conflict of parents who unfortunately do not care at that time about the best interests of common children. The kidnapper’s parent always thinks he is doing the best for his child, but unfortunately that child suffers the most damage. It is this Convention that has more goals that enables the immediate return of the child to a country where it had its residence before the abduction. Sometimes this child's return process is not a bit easy and simple, sometimes faced with the opposite legislative system, foreign language, culture, custom but also high prices of procedure. In 2015, the central authority sent a request, or 11 requests to return the child from another country to the Republic of Croatia and the ministry received two requests for the departure of the child from Croatia to another country. In 2016 there were 17 requests to return the child to the Republic of Croatia and 9 requests to return from the Republic of Croatia. In 2017 there were 7 requests for contact of a child outside the Republic of Croatia and there were no requests for contact with a child in the Republic of Croatia. The powers in the proceedings were in several national rules. I therefore support the adoption of this law where we will have everything in one place and where we will bring the county back to the country from which it was taken. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100546	Thank you, too. We don't have a replica, do we? Okay. Mr. Stjepan Curaj has a final individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100547	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here I'm going to spread a little bit from the replica, so since we now have more time when we're talking about assessing the necessary funds. In this proposal, in the final proposal of the Law, in Article 6(4), I quote: The Central Authority or the Court may call upon a party having the power to make a personal statement before the central authority or court on the facts to be established in the procedure. If the party is a foreigner who can speak any of the hundreds of world languages who will ensure the implementation of this article uninterrupted with an authorised translator, Ivo Citroš that is the first. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 1a of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. However, the following paragraph, if the applicant does not have the possibility to translate into the Croatian central authority in agreement with the central authority of that country, it may be Swahili or translation into English or French in which case the central office, the central body, will provide translation into Croatian. We do not have persons who speak three hundred languages of foreign languages, nor are they authorized court interpreters, on whose cost the translation will be provided under Article 9(3), here means clarified from that replica, why I am saying this, because.../incomprehensible/... the funds are not further provided additional funds or no additional funds are provided. When we talk about this and in Article 6 that special guardians from the centre will represent children and in these cases with an international element, then I just want to draw attention to the capacities of the centre itself that the Centre for Special Care has in Zagreb 6 special guardians who have over two and a half, 2,600, 2,700 items annually, and there we can certainly talk about certain sub-capacitalities for the already existing coverage of jobs, where others who are really like.../incomprehensible/... international omen that require probably both greater and more costs of course and more time. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100548	The final word is, State Secretary Mađeric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100549	... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank you for your participation in the debate, namely this is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the Convention and what is highlighted here, i.e. to answer some questions that have arisen in the debates. [[Specially enabled.]] Namely, the Republic of Croatia has been the Convention since 1991, and on the basis of this, we have in the central body which is already employed by people already working under the Convention and what may have caused some concern about the insurance of financial resources, financial resources are already being provided because this law makes it clear that they are already working in the Ministry for many years and continuously. What is also important here is therefore being consulted on education, further education related to the application of the Convention. As regards the publication of the translation of the Convention, it will be published until the date of entry into force of the final draft of the law provided for on 1 January 2019 if the Croatian Parliament adopts the law and as regards translation, pursuant to Article 9(3) of the final proposal of the Law, provides that if there is no translation in the Croatian language, the central authority will accept, in agreement with the central authority of that State, a request with documentation in the original or in translation into English or French, in which case the central authority will provide a translation into the Croatian language, and the means for such translation are provided, but also for workers working in the central body, all of them speaking English, so it is one of the obligations, but also other foreign languages. And what I would further point out about mediation under the existing Family Mediation Regulation of 1 January 2019 could therefore be done by mediation, only persons who completed a specialist study in family mediation could be engaged in mediation. Due to this, our ministry is preparing a new Family Mediation Regulation where mediation will be able to carry out those who do not have specialist studies but other conditions will be that some of them will have the number of hours of education and practical work. Here I think I've answered all the questions, thank you for the debate, and I thank all those who will support this proposal for the final law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100550	Mr. Curly Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100551	I thank the Vice President, here I can say that I am satisfied with this other part of the answer where you stated that the funds were secured because it was precisely the urgency to at least put the item, let the kuna on it, but important that we have an item we know how things work can always be redistributed if the need comes, is that the answer that someone speaks a language is not enough not only to be satisfied with it because many of us speak more languages, but none or a small majority of us are authorized interpreters who can give authorized interpretations and translations for things in the procedure that are formal, but if we are provided with the means I accept it and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100552	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100553	The final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on the Civil-Legal Visions of International Kidnapping, Second Reading, PZ No. 377, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of that Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 FOR and 1 COUNTRY, have been passed the Law on the implementation of the Convention on the Civil-Legal Visions of International Kidnapping.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100554	and now on the basis of Article 247 and the conversations we had between several clubs, but the important thing is that we decide now, I suggest that the next seven points that are similar to the topics I will read, we conduct the debate as united. This means that clubs have 20 minutes of debate, but it must be agreed by most of the representatives present. These are the following laws: - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission to support peace "Resolution support" in Afghanistan Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in Operation "EUAVFOR MED SOPHIA" - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of the strengthened advantage of NATO's presence in the Republic of Croatia. - A proposal for a decision on the participation of the RS Armed Forces in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo. - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in a mission to support peace in the NATO mission in Iraq. - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support the peace of Atlanta, Somalia Atlanta. - Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping operations. Do you mind if we discuss these points together? If there's no one against, nothing against, then we don't even have to vote and now, so those 7 points is the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article. 54. Defence Act and Art. 172. The Rules of Procedure of the HS debate were conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Does Mr Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100555	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, distinguished MPs and representatives of HS. You are presented with proposals for decisions on the participation of HR members in various international missions and peace support operations in 2019. and 2020. It is a total of 9 missions and operations, including 4 NATO alliance missions, 2 EU missions and 3 UN missions. Otherwise, in 2018. Armed Forces members of the Republic of Croatia are participating in 8 missions. For all missions in 2019 A total of up to 366 HV members should participate. The financial resources were planned in the state budget at the level of the Ministry of Defence, and in 2019. amounting to 124 million kuna and in 2020. It's 120 million kuna. According to the operations, the proposal is this: the Republic of Croatia remains firmly committed to allied efforts to support Afghanistan, and to adopt the principles of solidarity together inside, together outside. The backbone of our participation was the deployment of mentoring and advisory teams for training the Afghan army and civilian police. We also propose in 2019. and 2020. in the Mission of Peace Support to Afghanistan, up to 110 members of the Armed Forces, as was the case in 2018. Operation Sofia is an important contribution from the EU, combating instability in the central Mediterranean. The involvement of the armed forces is benefiting from the aspect of acquiring practical knowledge and experience, and is a contribution to one of the long-term objectives of the EU's common foreign and security policy, which is to support peace and security. We also propose in 2019. and in 2020. Continued participation of our armed forces in the operation with up to 3 members. At the NATO summit held in Warsaw, the Republic of Croatia supported the decision to strengthen the presence of alliances in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland, and to participate as part of a strengthened front presence complemented by our efforts to build and maintain its own international credibility and responsibility. We also propose in 2019. and in 2020. Continued participation of our armed forces as part of the US-led battle group with up to 90 members in Poland. NATO's KFOR operations in Kosovo have been of special importance to the Republic of Croatia since the beginning because it is located in our immediate neighbourhood. The Croatian contingent focuses on carrying out the tasks of air transport, the work of headquarters staff at the headquarters of the operation on the advisory team at the level of the ministry and Kosovo security forces. We also propose in 2019. and in 2020. in the KFOR operation in Kosovo, up to 40 members of the armed forces and 2 helicopters are participating. NATO summit in Brussels in July 2018 Heads of state and government of NATO member states have made a decision, at the request of the Iraqi government, on the establishment of a NATO non-combat mission in Iraq. By participating in this mission, the RS will contribute to the international community's efforts to build stability in Iraq, strengthening the ability of Iraqi institutions and security forces to achieve medium- and long-term stabilisation and security. Croatian officers and officers on this mission will perform the duties of advisers, instructors and mentors, and support duties, and we propose to participate in a non-combat mission in Iraq up to 10 members of HR in 2019. By participating in Operation Atalanta, the Republic of Croatia contributes to the fight against piracy as well as to supporting other EU missions and operations with a view to strengthening maritime security. Currently, 13 members of the operation are part of the operation and 12 members are on the AVPD team. This demonstrates the willingness to make a demanding contribution to one of the long-term objectives of the EU's common foreign and security policy, which is to support peace and security in the area of Africa. We also propose to continue participation in EU Operation NAVFOR SOMALANTA with up to 25 members in 2019 and 2020. In response to security challenges and the change in the global security environment of the Republic of Croatia, it actively supported the UN's global campaign to boost the contribution of the country's strength donors and to strengthen the capacity of UN operations. The last rotation of the operation in Lebanon will be carried out in November 2018 by engineering company for a period of 6 months and we therefore propose to participate in this operation in 2019 with up to 70 members and in 2020 to 3 members. In the Western Sahara, the continuation of participation in 2019 and 2020 as well as up to 8 members and up to 10 members of the Armed Forces in India and Pakistan. As I said the financial resources for all these missions were planned in the Ministry of Defence budget for 2019 and 2020 and I hope you will support the proposal for these decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100556	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Robert Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100557	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. With these decisions we decided last year about the same time, I think it was November 2017. It's all very similar here, you repeated what you said last year. But there is one important difference in these decisions compared to last year. Last year we decided on sending the Armed Forces to all these missions for a year, for 2018 and now you propose for a period of 2 years, for 2019 and 2020. Why this change? Why should the Croatian Parliament decide on your proposal that the Armed Forces be instructed for 2 years, that means that by the end of this term, more will not be decided by the Armed Forces. So why is this change, what are you based on, so far the rule has been one year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100558	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100559	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, the proposal is for two years because of the planning and organisation of the operations themselves and of course the financial planning. This does not essentially change anything, all these decisions can be subject to changes if there are situations that would require a change in decisions. So it's no problem to change these decisions if it's necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100560	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100561	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the responsible person here. And that is, whether he thinks the government in Afghanistan is truly legitimate or whether it has the support of the Afghan people or in case NATO retreats from Afghanistan tomorrow whether it collapses and disappears the day after tomorrow. That's what I'm curious about why, because the authorities in Afghanistan called the Soviets to help, but that government in Kabul didn't have any legitimacy at all, and this mission failed, and apparently this mission in Afghanistan seems like Sisif's job or that it's going nowhere. You'll say Mr. Pernar, that's your opinion, but it's the opinion of an increasing number of people, not only in Afghanistan but in the rest of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100562	Thank you. I've overlooked that a respected representative named Klisovic has come forward, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100563	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, you've given us all these proposals for joining our soldiers, their participation in peace operations, but I haven't heard that you've told us that all these activities are planned and the funding in planning, the financial planning of the MORC, so please just confirm that you have trouble providing funds for our army's needs when the Parliament is here to guide them into international operations in the course of these discussions that are always in the government about budget allocation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100564	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100565	Well, I said in the statement that the funds were secured, or planned, in the state budget at the Ministry of Defence level, and that for 2019 it was around 124 million kuna for 2020, which is 120 million kuna. Most of these missions have been going on for many years and, as a rule, for them in the ministry, i.e. the state budget is always planning funds, and it is not a problem to separate hundreds of millions of kunas from the Ministry's budget especially because these funds can be observed, i.e. the use of these funds and in a different way that these funds are in a way and training is possible for Croatian soldiers, because in all these missions they are, of course, carrying out and training and gaining experiences that cannot otherwise be achieved in the country itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100566	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first one on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club will be shared by respected representatives Pernar and Bunjac. It's my friend Pernar first, isn't it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100567	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to warn you of a problem. In fact, a girl sent me a message this morning that's a lot like that, I'd dare say disturbing. She said yes, now I'm going to tell you exactly what she wrote. Hello, I have an inquiry. I got to pay for the first real estate. I'm a single mother, I took a 30-year-old loan to buy an apartment so she could have a place to live. I'm a exile from Vukovar. I live in Poreč and I'm told in the IRS that they're not interested in anything. And I have to pay 22. 1,000 kuna within 8 days if not, I have 24 months with 8% interest All right, esteemed chairman. [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Pernar, now is not a free speech, free speech will be when we finish the point.]] But I didn't even say this was a free speech, but this is an introduction to the debate. Intruder Reiner: All right, go ahead. [[And you're talking about something that has nothing to do with the subject. But sir...../]] Keep going, but please in the topic. Thank you. It is that the lady is trying to point out that the tax system in Croatia is a disaster. That those who didn't have to pay taxes on first real estate yesterday, now have to pay, and they have no way and you're probably wondering what that has to do with this subject. Well, it does, because at the same time as there is never a larger tax press on the Croatian population, this government sends its own, i.e. Croatian soldiers, all over the world from Lithuania, means Russian borders to Afghanistan, Hindus, Lebanon and where not everything, as if we're a country that doesn't know what to do with the money, so now we have extra money, so here we are, asking NATO where you want to send soldiers, and they don't know, show the map of these five countries, we send it there. Why is no one asking, or why these costs are not being discussed, on the one hand, and on the other hand, about the benefit of the Croatian people? Why am I saying that? Because many Croatian citizens do not feel safe. Why don't you just ask those who live at Plitvice Lakes, Udbin and so on? So those who live in the vicinity of the Unsanican Canton, that is, Bihac and the Great Claudius. Ask these people on those migrant routes if they feel safe. They'll tell you not to. And the question arises, which is why the Croatian army instead of protecting the Lithuanian border there or Afghanistan with Pakistan or I don't know what it is, why our army isn't protecting the Croatian border. Stjepan Radic said in his own time, that Croatian money should be in Croatian pocket, and the Croatian rifle on the Croatian shoulder. I'm repeating the question here now. Why are we in Croatia unable to run a policy that is in our interest? Why on the one hand we run a tax press against the domicile population, and on the other we have these unnecessary expenditures, like these series of military missions. You call them peacemakers, of course, but you know what I'll tell you? A mission in Afghanistan, it's all just not a peace mission. That's what you're aware of. A large part of the country doesn't control that government in Kabul at all, and you know for a fact that this government is a puppet. You know yourself that without NATO's help she would collapse tomorrow. And what does that tell you? This tells you that this government has no support for the Afghan population. I was recently in Moscow, I spoke to the Russians there, and I told them, you know what, you're smarter than the Americans. And they ask me why. So I tell them, so you gentlemen realized in 1989 that this war in Afghanistan doesn't make sense. That keeping that puppet power in Kabul doesn't make any sense in life. And you retired from there in 1989. You just realized, my people have nothing to do with us. But America and 30 years soon after the Russians retreated and still believed in miracles. And what miracle, ladies and gentlemen? Well, you all know that no one has ever succeeded in ruling Afghanistan. It's a historical lesson. They've tried many, all possible powers of the world. And what was the result? Well, none, failure. And now what, our government, our Department of Defense thinks what? So that they're smarter than history, that they have what those Russians are stupid, we're smart. So now we're going to Afghanistan, spend money, expose soldiers to the dead, because, like, watch out for what the thought is, like we're gonna be there, I don't know, I don't even know what the objective of that mission is. What, what are we gonna do to keep a dying patient alive? Why the Afghan people do not have the right to self-determination and the right to rule or to rule their own country. You'll say, Mr. Pernar, we do it for the Afghans. Who are you kidding, ladies and gentlemen? I'll give you the number, in 2001, the number of refugees from Afghanistan, Germany, totaled 5,000. So when the Taliban, under the allegations of evil Taliban, were in power, only 5,000 refugees came to Germany annually. In 2016, 150,000 people came to Germany from Afghanistan. So are you aware of the number? It's working five, 25 times as many people who are leaving, who are running from Afghanistan now. You'll talk to me about peace and security? So what peace and security, the production of drugs since NATO got there has increased 20 times, 22 times, 21 times already. So what kind of security? And you created a country with 3 million heroin addicts, is that your success? Are you successful intoxicating the epidemic of Western countries, which is the result of military action in Afghanistan? Look how many people have died in Afghanistan so far because of that war that NATO started and America, look how many Western soldiers died there, and how many people killed drugs? Drugs killed them a lot more than all military acts. And when I tell you that this government that allows and these international forces that are actually fighting the local population because it is obvious that the local population does not support that policy. Although it's obvious they're working with crime because you can't explain differently that 20 times more drugs are being produced now than when it was the previous government. That nobody can convince me that this government, this puppet and you, along with it, that you're maintaining it, that you're doing something to stop this drug trade and production. But unfortunately, the Croatian people, most of them still, vividly speaking, bites that story of yours, trusts your lies and believes that NATO's goal, I don't know, is to root out drugs, help the Afghans, etc. And we know it's a lie, but you say no, no, it's true, we do our best, etc., but they'll see that time will show one thing. You're gonna tell me what that thing is, Mr. Pernar? Well, you'll see, maybe not next year, maybe not for 5, maybe not for 10, but in 50 or 100 years, you'll have to pull out of there eventually, and again you'll realize that all these years you've been wasting time and spending taxpayers' money instead of helping the Croatian people in the Croatian state, taking care of their well-being, giving them less taxes, protecting our country's borders and giving them security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100568	The esteemed representative of the Bunjac will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100569	... Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm glad to see that the Croatian military force, I didn't know it until now, so precisely, when I read these papers, here we have armies to send around the world, there are 4 million of us, let's say 20x less than Germans, 40x less than Russians or 70x less Americans, but here we send an army to India and Pakistan, we send an army to the Western Sahara, we send 70 people to Lebanon, we send to Poland 90 soldiers and multi-cent rockets, we send 40 soldiers and helicopters to Kosovo, because we have helicopters to send, we don't have an ambulance, but we have an ambulance here for Kosovo, we'd probably send the MiGs if we could take off, that's a little problem, but good. Here we send 110 soldiers to Afghanistan, here we send to the southern Mediterranean army, send to Somalia to fight pirates, here we send 10 soldiers to Iraq, etc. And I really have to ask myself, where did Croatia come from with such an army, where did it come from? Here we give 120 million kuna a year for the army, and as counterpart Pernar pointed out, on the other hand, we do not have a few million kunas for some basic needs of Croatian citizens, for example, all hungry children in Croatia would eat for 60 million kuna, meaning for half of the funds we give for these military actions, children in Croatia would eat for a year, which they normally have, which have social difficulties, not all. And let's just say, I'm interested, except for that unfortunate Afghanistan, where we support the puppet government that sells drugs, what's the use of Croatian soldiers going to the Russian border? How always, at first, does every government, whoever appears, have to send an army to Russia? We had Napoleon's time, we sent 50,000, they came back, I don't know, five. We had World War I time, we sent 500,000 back to 15-20% of the houses. We had World War II time, we were sending the army back to Stalingrad, I don't know where it all came from, now it's over again. So whoever it is in Russia, it's the emperor, Stalin, Putin, Medvedev, Croatia has to send troops there. No Russian government is good enough, but we must go there normally, under the command of another army, never go under our own command, and then fight against a people who are not hostile to Croatia. The Russians have never attacked Croatia in history. In fact, they only did us well in politics, in culture and in many other fields where we could work together, and if we were a little smart, we would make sure that we abolish both sanctions and visas to the Russians, that they come here to fly, to work with them, because they are far more important external trade partners to Croatia than the United States and those countries that are like folk allies to us, but no, we are sending an army to the Russian border. And there I don't know what we're doing, we're playing crazy, there's no enmity that doesn't exist, we provoke, so for no real reason at all. Furthermore, we are now sending an army to Iraq. What will the Croatian army in Iraq do? Do the MPs even know what happened in Iraq and why they need an army there? Here, I'll tell you. 2003. The NATO alliance has launched an intervention against Iraq over alleged mass weapons, not one single piece of evidence, to this day, is represented by mass weapons. The intervention was launched because Iraq was claimed to support terrorism, to this day, there is no single, smallest evidence, that Saddam Hussein supported terrorist groups. In 2009, British Prime Minister Tony Blair himself admitted that NATO intervention would be undertaken and there would be no mass weapons. Since NATO forces came to Iraq, at least 110,000 people have been killed and up to 120,000 people have been killed among them by a number of civilians, there have been unremembered atrocities carried out by NATO forces, which bombed and hospitals, which have been torturing you have that prison of Abu Ghraib so look what was done there. At least give yourself so much effort to inform yourself for five minutes. From Iraq and later in Syria, due to NATO intervention, support for ISIL, Al-Qaeda, supported by the US government, 14 million people were expelled, 14 million. A large part of these people are now standing on the Croatian border on the part of Serbia, on the side of BiH. That's what we, the policy I support, and more will come, how many come from Afghanistan and how many have come before. If there were a national government there, if they chose who would rule them, I guarantee you that there would be no refugee or migrants in this area. The U.S. government after winning Iraq, set up its own administration in Iraq and you know what the first task of that administration was, you don't know, here I'll tell you what the mission of the American administration was. First thing, privatize all public enterprises. Second thing, secure full ownership rights for foreign companies in Iraq. Third thing, damage all foreign profits. Fourth thing, take over all Iraqi banks and give them into foreign property and fifth thing, equalize foreigners and Iraqis in gaining rights over the economy. Which was the first building the U.S. military won upon the entry of Baghdad, of course it was a central bank, of course it was a state-owned oil company building. The U.S. government, the British government, came to Iraq to rob resources. They have committed aggression against the sovereign country beyond the UN decision and beyond international law. There is a ruling in the 2010 Den Hague that the US government has committed an aggression in Iraq beyond international law. And what are you doing here? Shut up. Why, because you're afraid, because you're looking at your own interests, not to say the interests of my own pocket. And that's where you brought us into this Parliament a delegation of Saudi Arabia and clapped at her, like sheep, to people who slaughter journalists and chicken them with motor saws, you clapped here. Shame on this Croatian Parliament. I didn't clap and I never will when he gets here, I'll fuck them. I'll get a fuck, they'll be all they'll be waiting for. Shame one, people who cut their heads in Yemen, hang people, kids out there, school buses bomb, you can see them on the Internet every day. Gentlemen Parliamentarians, leave division to nations, to races, to confessions, to political parties for at least a moment. Every man on the globe has the right to freedom and happiness. We deny this freedom to the nations to whom we send our army. We want to build our happiness by pressuring others. It's not a good path, it's a path that will avenge us. It's already coming back to us because day and night migrants are illegally crossing the border and committing crimes. And there is a law of karma that says “all that you have done to others, one day it will come back to you, ” one day you will experience that foreign armies are coming to Croatia and you know how much it bothered us not so long ago, and now we are doing the same to others. Let the sovereign nations make a sovereign decision about their own destiny, to build their own future, to seek their own place in this world in the way it suits them. The living wall will not support any NATO action, it is not sending Croatian soldiers under their authority. The only thing we can support is pensions of actions controlled by the UN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100570	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Angelko Strick will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100571	... colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Today, we are discussing making 7 decisions to send OSR members into peacekeeping support missions. There are 9 missions under the auspices of the UN, the EU and the NATO. When we talk about UN peacekeeping operations for 2019-2020, we are talking about sending our members to Lebanon, 70 members, to the Western Sahara by 8 and to India and Pakistan by 10. Under the auspices of the EU, we are participating in two peacekeeping missions in 2019-2020, up to 25 in Somalia and in the Southern and Central Mediterranean, up to 3 members. As part of NATO's alliance, they would participate in 4 peace support operations in Kosovo up to 40 OSCE members, in Afghanistan up to 110, in Iraq up to 10 and in Poland up to 90. All these peacekeeping missions aim to establish peace, strengthen the ability of the institutions of the home states, strengthen collective defence of the alliance, reduce instability, etc. I consider those decisions to be necessary to send members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, and will be supported by the HDZ representative club. However, I am taking the opportunity to remind myself that in the early 1990s our country was the recipient of such peace missions. From the 1990s, UN peacekeeping forces and then European communities operated in the Republic of Croatia until 98. We all still remember UNPROFOR, UNCRO, UNTAS, etc. I would also point out that there were five of them on January 7, 1992. In a place... In Varazdin County, dead. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's when their unarmed helicopter crashed a fighter plane, so-called. JNA. The Republic of Croatia is from the recipients, so it took only a year to reach the security provider. In 1999. We're sending the first members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to a peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone. Since then, our soldiers, officers, have participated in numerous peacekeeping missions, namely Sierra Lenoe, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Iraq, East Timor, Liberia, Haiti, the Coast of Whiteness, Cyprus, Georgia, Sudan, Nepal, Bordeaux, Central African Republic, Chad, Israel, Syria, Lithuania, and the missions we are discussing today, meaning Kosovo, Afghanistan, Iraq, Poland, Somalia, the Central Mediterranean, Lebanon, Western Sahara, India, Pakistan. Since the first deployment of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in 1999 8055 people participated in peacekeeping missions around the world. I point out here that all missions have passed without the loss of human lives. For our soldiers, officers and officers, and given the number of missions they participated in, the sacrifice and professionalism they showed, we can certainly point out that they are among the best promoters of our homeland. In all missions, they stood out and were often rewarded and commended. I also point out the possibility of promoting our economy, especially when it comes to the defence industry. Namely, the last contingent sent to Afghanistan is equipped and armed with Croatian products. It's certainly one big success of our defense industry. To be at the height of the task other than equipment and weapons, an important part is training. So here I congratulate Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstičević, Chief of Staff General Mirko Šundov's choir, all their associates, especially all the officers, officers and soldiers, the participants of the Velebit 18 military exercise at its successful implementation. With this exercise, we have shown that HV is trained, equipped and armed, and that it is able to defend our country and allies. Due to all these facts, I urge all MPs and MPs in HS to support the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100572	Thank you very much. The next SDP representative's club is on behalf of which a respected representative, Franco Vidovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100573	I thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, and it is difficult to speak after all these praises from my previous colleague and congratulations, etc., but good. So this is about 9 missions and they are shown through 7 decisions on the engagement of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia. Two under the auspices of the EU or EUNAVFOR between SOPHIA and EUNAVFOR SOMALIA ATALANTA. The objective of SOPHIA is to make systematic efforts to identify and disable vessels, as well as other means suspected of being used by immigrant smugglers. In addition to curbing illegal migration, SOPHIA is an important contribution from the EU to combating instability in the southern Mediterranean. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The mandate of SOPHIA has been extended with two new tasks for which the Security Council resolution has also been adopted and the tasks of training the Libyan Coast Guard and the Navy, and contributes to the implementation of the UN arms embargo on the high seas along the coast of Libya. A particularly important humanitarian aspect of this operation is that a large number of immigrants are saved during their regular tasks. In this operation, the Republic of Croatia participates with up to 3 members of the armed forces with the possibility of rotation in 2019. and 2020. Otherwise, I believe that this operation is very important to us because the situation at the Croatian borders with immigrants is partly caused by the fact that prevention has not been done at sea or in the Mediterranean in time. The aim of the EUNAVFOR SOMALIA ATALANTA operation is to protect vessels carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia as part of the World Food and Ship Protection Programme, which provide logistical support to the African Union forces in Somalia, located in the city of Mogadishu, as part of the African Union mission in Somalia. Protection of vessels passing through the area of operation, deterring the protection and control of criminal activities, piracy and armed robbery from the Somalia area, and participation in the control of fishing activities outside the coast of Somalia. This operation is based on a decision by the Republic of Croatia to participate with up to 25 members of the armed forces with the possibility of rotation in 2019. and 2020. And compared to the current number of 13, if I'm not wrong with the secretary of state, we're increasing our strength there. Then three operations, but within one decision to support the UN's peace in Lebanon, India, Pakistan and the Western Sahara. The purpose of these operations is to contribute to the creation of a long-term stable, secure and more advanced environment, and to strengthen the rule of law, the protection of civilians, respect for human rights and security are a fundamental prerequisite for meeting this objective. In these operations, the Republic of Croatia participates with members of the armed forces as part of the engineering unit, as military observers, liaison officers and health professions. At this moment we are participating in all three operations in India, Pakistan with 9 members of the armed forces, in the Western Sahara with 7 members and in Lebanon with 53 members. In 2019, they would be present with up to 70 members in Lebanon, with up to 3 members of the armed forces in 2020, thus reducing the number. In India and Pakistan in 2019 and 2020, they would be present with up to 10 members of the armed forces under this operation and in the Western Sahara with up to 8 members in 2019 and 2020. Then there are 4 operations, or 4 decisions concerning 4 operations within NATO and this Resolution support in Afghanistan, which is NATO's non-combat mission to support peace in which Croatia has been participating since 2015, before we are with members of our armed forces, they can say freely present in the area since 2003, by sending the first water of the military police with 50 members and we are participating in various non-combat operations together with our partners and allies. In this mission we refer to up to 110 members of the armed forces in 2019 and 2020, which is the number of members engaged in the mission this year. Then, KFOR's peace support operation in Kosovo, this operation has great importance for us from the very beginning because it is located in our neighbourhood, I would not exactly tell the immediate neighborhood who in the explanation, but it certainly is in our neighborhood and it can have special implications for the stability of the entire region of Southeast Europe, so the intention is to continue the engagement all ok it will be necessary until the operation itself is over. In the field of operation, 28 Croatian contingents of 35 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are currently deployed with 2 transport helicopters, following a decision in the operation of KFOR's Support for Peace in Kosovo in 2019 and 2020, up to 40 members of the armed forces with 2 Croatian Air Force helicopters are directed. Next, a second NATO-enhancing operation in the Republic of Poland in response to a worsening security situation in the immediate neighbourhood along the alliance's borders during the NATO summit in Warsaw, NATO members adopted a series of decisions to boost the deterrence and defence of the alliances. The same includes the engagement of forces with Eastern allies with a strategic purpose of timely preparation and strengthening the ability to deter and defend. The RS supported the decision to strengthen the presence of alliances in the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Poland and decided to take part with the Armed Forces Unit and in the essence of multi-bit rocket launchers 120mm M92-VULKAN in the battle group in Poland. As part of the first Croatian contingent, 78 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are directed, so the battle we are talking about with the possibility of rotation. For this mission, up to 90 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia were proposed in 2019 and 2020. We were also present in the Republic of Lithuania, but this operation I think is over this year, right? As regards support, as regards the last mission, which is a mission to support peace in Iraq, since Iraq is what it is, that it is practically a good part of the war today, we in the SDP have questioned the support of this decision but for the reasons that I will point out in the follow-up and received assurances by the Secretary of State that it is a non-combat mission with the aim of training in Baghdad, we have decided to support the mission however. At the NATO summit and Brussels in July 2018, heads of state and government of member states made a decision at the request of the Iraqi government to set up a NATO mission in Iraq. A NATO transition with short-term military targets to NATO's non-combat mission in Iraq aimed at long-term resilience is a turning point in strengthening NATO's role in the fight against terrorism and a NATO training mission with a clear mandate. NATO will thus be able to help train Iraqi forces to meet security challenges successfully, it will be able to help establish military schools and academia for the needs of Iraqi security forces. NATO also has a special decision, a special role in terms of strengthening the defence institutional development of security sector reform and the professionalisation of the Iraqi Armed Forces, especially since the ultimate goal of Iraqi defence and security institutions and forces is to have the ability to plan, conduct operations and maintain partnership. NATO is harmonising its activities with other international actors in Iraq for the first time in the global coalition, but also with the European Union in order to avoid duplication. NATO's non-combat mission activities are not planned in northern Iraq, the mission's command is located in Baghdad, and outside Baghdad training is conducted at two locations, Tajji and Basmaj, both near Baghdad. By participating in this mission, the RS contributes to the international community's efforts to build and stability in Iraq by strengthening the capabilities of Iraqi institutions and security forces to achieve medium- and long-term stabilisation and security. The mission commander will be a Canadian general and the countries that have undertaken to participate in the mission are with the Republic of Croatia, Australia, the Republic of Bulgaria, Canada, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of Estonia, Finland, the Republic of France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland, the Helen Republic, Hungary, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Lithuania, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Republic of Turkey and the United States. Based on this decision on the mission of support in peace, the NATO mission to Iraq in 2018 and 2019, up to 10 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are referred to with the possibility of rotation. The SPD Club will support participation of members of the Republic of Croatia, in all these missions, so we will support all these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100574	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to individual debates and the first to come forward is Honored Representative Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100575	Dear ladies and gentlemen, time passes, governments change and politics remains the same, both HDZ and SDP and Milan Bandic 365 and HNS, all of them together support the sending of Croatian soldiers around the world. Of course it doesn't go to other people's expense. I could understand the Secretary of Defense saying, listen, Ivan, the Americans are giving us money for these missions, the people who are going to them. And we simply ask, and I don't know, in the military doing, I caricate 20,000 people, we ask if there are volunteers who want to say for 4,000 dollars a month to go work in Afghanistan, and the Americans will pay for it, and people will answer and leave. Then I could understand, that you agree to leave, that is, our government on such missions, for clear reasons, for financial benefit, because we are paid for it, so these people go as mercenaries, work there, for other people's interests, for people like Trump, etc. But this situation that we have is that the richest country in the world, run by one, I would say, a wanted billionaire, we pay their bills to them, but I can't understand that, I can't understand such a policy. If America were some poor country, and if we were a rich and powerful country, so let's say, we're going to send soldiers to the Russian border, we're going to Afghanistan wherever we need to, then everything you're doing would make sense. But I see that what you're doing doesn't make sense, that we're fighting another man's war for our money. We care about other people's interests instead of our own. And I must say this moment from the pay phone, to me Ivan Pernar and my party to the Living Wall and to my President Ivan Willibor Sinčić, Croatia's interest in the first place, not the interest of Trump, his administration, their lobbyists and strategists from Washington and Brussels, but unfortunately, I fear that this is not a priority for you to have the interest of Croatia, not in the first place, that you love Croatia only with my heart. That this is all just one game for you to come out of tomorrow as a richer man with yet another reference in your CV and that you don't really care what you're going through in Croatia and what the Croatian people are going through. And the message the lady wrote me, which I read this morning, didn't give me a gentleman to finish, she said like this. Well, they told me in the IRS, that the first real estate tax would be paid in eight days, if I didn't have 24 months with 8% interest. I know if there's any way he can complain because I'm gonna go to the street or go to jail. I can't get out of my child's mouth to give to the IRS because I have nothing to live on. It's worth two years at 900, and I have nowhere to go. He says nothing, he says, "I'm gonna sell the apartment, and I'm gonna go outside, there's no one else." Thank you, but shame can be them, shame on what people have burned. So what's this about? It's about people from Croatia moving out because of the tax press you're working on. Because the poor girl who made it to her only home, the only real estate, they have to pay taxes now, they don't have it from where to pay it urgently, right now, the loan is at 30 years, you have to pay all the taxes right now, where people pay, that tax, when they don't even have to buy that property, money, and they have to get the credit up. Do you care about ladies and gentlemen from the government? No, and you know what to do then? Then the thesis is replaced, then it's said, Mr. Pernar, that the Americans contacted you, that you have contacts with... Or anyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why is that? So we can hide your connection to Trump's administration. To hide that servant policy against the Americas that you do. When they contacted us, we said, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia is our first priority, this Trump policy, we disagree with it. And why don't we get along? Well not for some ideological reasons, but because Croatia is our first priority, Trumpu and LNG terminal in Omislje, it is Trumpu in the first place even though we all know that LNG gas is more expensive than pipeline gas. Ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ may be a shame to you, it may be a shame that the media is using spins from your kitchen for not choosing ways and means to discredit us, and you are aware of how deep you are in a policy that is so servile, that our president is being humiliated so much, that he goes to Wahinghton and stands in front of the fence of the white house. So he can't even study at the White House. Do you realize the relationship between the US administration and us? But I'm afraid you don't care, I'm afraid you don't care, I'm afraid you just don't understand my words, or maybe you understand them, but you pretend you don't understand them. And here and such a land that humiliates us, exploits us, who says hey, Colinda, you know where Krk is? Who in this way talk to us, you see great friends and allies in them. Are those friends and allies? I would say that these are the people who take advantage of our stupidity, the half-tronity of our politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100576	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative, Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State. Well here are 7 proposals for decisions to send our OS to the EU mission, missions that are actually defined and which are the tasks that our OS are doing outstandingly and which actually make Croatia recognizable throughout the world and the Croatian military industry improve, given that all our soldiers in all our missions are equipped with Croatian guns, Croatian guns, Croatian helmets, Croatian digital uniforms, Croatian boots and that's what the whole world sees. Each country orders and accommodates a couple of hundred million is a huge thing for the Croatian military industry. But here are the decisions that are ahead of us in missions in our environment, such as the KFOR Peace Support operation in Kosovo, and that is where soldiers are engaged for 2019 and 2020 through this decision, it is proposed to continue the participation of the OS and up to 40 members of the OS and 2 HRZ helicopters in the KFOR mission in Kosovo. The mission was also led by KFOR operations in Kosovo, led by NATO's command from the very beginning, has special importance for the Republic of Croatia because it is located in our immediate environment, as I said. The soldiers are focused on carrying out the air transport mission... Staff at headquarters as well as work on advisory teams. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The next operation is the Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the OSCE in a mission to support peace "Resolution Support" and this mission to support peace "Resolution Support" in Afghanistan is proposed to refer in 2019 and 2020 to 110 members of the HV OS with possible rotations. What we have a chance to see is that many times, a number of those soldiers, officers and officers are waiting to be assigned to any mission, as well as Afghanistan, and I believe that through all missions there are a number of interested people as much as I have information, so that we can go voluntarily and as soon as possible and not give them strict orders. They are professional soldiers in the composition of our OS but first of all they have the possibility of voluntary performance or commitment if they meet both health and psychophysical and all other criteria necessary. A further mission is a decision on the participation of the OSCE in the NATO mission in Iraq for 2018, and this is a non-combat mission to send up to 10 OSCE members who will also train their forces. It is also good for our soldiers to get acquainted with this territory to be also useful as in Croatia many times during the Homeland War and American officers as well as other NATO countries were as lecturers and to train our forces in order to be more ready for any tasks. Further decision on the participation of OSCE members as part of the activities to strengthen NATO's prior presence in the Republic of Poland. This is the most concrete form of strengthening collective deterrence and defence of alliances, and the decision is to establish NATO's front presence in allies on the eastern wing of the alliance, which represents a strong message to the Member States' communities and to improve transatlantic ties. I believe that these soldiers who are scheduled and are scheduled to and are proposed to continue our OS participation as part of the US-led battle group, with 90 OSCE members to be deployed to Poland in 2019-2020 with the possibility of rotation. All the grades so far are excellent and excellent for our OS, indeed, the boys are every honor of discipline, loyalty, training and preparation, and I think that NATO's alliance in which we are a member, there is no alternative and that we must surely work together with them these operations that we are given. The signature of the contract clearly defines our engagement of our OS. The further proposal for a decision is the participation of members of our OS in the support of the ‘EU NAVFOR Somalia Atalanta’ motto for 2019 and 2020, and this mission proposes the engagement of up to 25 members of the OS annually with the possibility of also rotating. Atalanta is also useful from the aspect of acquiring practical knowledge and experience both in the performance of ship's duties and in the main work. Also,... These RS operations demonstrate their readiness to contribute actively to one of the long-term objectives of the common foreign and security policy, which is to support peace and security in the area of Africa. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, we have the engagement of our EU forces NAFOR MED SOFIA for 2019, 2020, and this is the SOFIA operation another important contribution to the European Union in the fight against instability in the Southern Central Mediterranean through the participation of the Republic of Croatia directly contributes to the development of the European Union's capacity to manage crises in particular in the face of problems of illegal migration in the Southern Central Mediterranean. This mission confirms Croatia's intention to further develop and invest in its own maritime tradition through the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia is also useful from the aspect of the acquisition of practical knowledge and experience and represents a concrete contribution to one of the long-term objectives of the common foreign and security policy. This is where three members of the armed forces are proposed annually and can also be rotated. And we still have a proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in UN peacekeeping support operations and this operation in Lebanon UNFIL, which should refer up to 70 members, peace support operations in the Western Sahara in which it should be deployed with the possibility of rotating 8 members and peace support operations in India and Pakistan in which up to 10 members of the Armed Forces should be referred annually with the possibility of rotation. Here are the 7 decisions we need to make today I don't think they represent any controversy but that they're really quality and concrete. The engagement of our forces and our members of the armed forces as soldiers and soldiers as officers, the officer clearly shows and all the assessments, I will repeat what comes from NATO alliances as well as from European advisers are extraordinary they show that the Croatian army has grown into a modern army which is but a pair of members of American, German forces that are the strongest and the most powerful and thus Croatian develops its defence system through the engagement of its armed forces. So we welcome the engagement of our forces and we can say that the interest of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers is growing and the capacity to send is growing, so we believe that those words spoken are not accurate and absolutely not justified that we have heard here today that we are pushing our soldiers into some missions and combat tasks that they do not want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100578	Thank you, we have one replica, a respected representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100579	The Honorable Chairman says that we as the Croatian Army show our uniforms, our rifles, our guns, our helmets, etc. And that we're actually going to war to advertise our military industry. So, if they have no further argument to justify the occupation of another country, the pointless sending of our soldiers and the spending of huge funds, then they say, so we advertise military industry as there. And that's all about the morale of this HDZ majority, for them war is one place where profits can be obtained, where profits are obtained by selling weapons and where there's actually no moral or higher, higher human goal, that's the policy that the Living Wall fights against, fought against. /incomprehensible... in the future. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100580	The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100581	It's terrible to hear these accusations that absolutely have no basis. In fact, 28 Croatian companies for the sake of uniforms, equipment and weapons and sales around the world, we are recognizable by this you may forget to say when you mention Russia and the external trade relationship of Russia and Croatia, it does not occur to you. It seems to me that you have been recruited by Russia to be against NATO alliances against those who have been with us all along and the Homeland War have been with Croatia and helped to strike the Croatian army through the MPR system as well as through all other assistance that has been given to us during the release of the entire territory of Croatia as well as BiH. You really don't like Croatia, not that you love it and not that you live for it. Croatian army is a feather of vision Achievements in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100582	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Goran Maras, missing him, losing his right to speak, and the next debate would be her respected representative, Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100583	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, I answered in an individual debate just to remind you once again of the thing I asked for and the last time I spoke on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, which is that these matters of peace operations come to debate before they come to the plenary and to the Foreign Affairs Committee. They have, that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, they have a prominent foreign political component and this was read today from this debate we had. Foreign policy issues have been raised primarily in the field of foreign policy, so here is the case if, along with the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, there is no one from foreign affairs that we at least have on the Committee on Foreign Policy a debate on foreign policy experts sending our soldiers into peace operations so that there may also be colleagues from the Living Wall who legitimately ask questions why our people are going into peace operations, which is a relationship to Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia or, say, Russia. This seems crucial to me because ultimately, it's a political decision, foreign policy, whether or not our army will join peace efforts or certain peace operations, and it's not actually the defence ministry's decision. So, accordingly, it would be good to discuss this political aspect in the Committee on Foreign Policy so that the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces can, in an operational sense, do a huge part of the work and take care of our soldiers while they are across the borders of our country. But the key story is to convince parliamentary representatives as well as the Croatian public in the justification for the departure of our soldiers into peace operations, and all of us who have been dealing with this matter know that it is much better to put out fire when it is somewhere far away than when it comes to his own house. We also know the concept of collective security, which means, we know and what obligations arise for our country as members of defence alliances or other international associations, including the United Nations, not just NATO. Here, in this context, I repeat my appeal once again to the next time the Parliament comes to the agenda of matters related to peace operations to be sent to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100584	Thank you very much. The next debate will be her respected representative, Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100585	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. Of those who oppose this proposal today, and are opposed to our NATO membership, we have heard a fantastic but also terrible inversion of thesis. The idea that Croatia will be better, that Croatia will be safer if it runs out of allies, if it is alone. It reminds me very much when the debate on our NATO entry was, for example, what the Peace Studies Centre, as an opponent of Croatia's NATO entry, asked for, had one document, called the Alternative, as an alternative to our NATO entry, where it sought, no more than the disarmament of Croatia. Like we haven't been through it all. Faced with great Serbian aggression where we had to arm ourselves, where we were alone and without allies, we've been through it all before, and then how did President Tudjman react? Isn't it President Tudjman who started that trip and asked for, for example, together with the Americans, a training program for our forces? Wasn't that the key to winning a major Serbian aggression? Well, now it obviously doesn't suit someone, and it's still trying to defend them from the aspect of national interests, so are you a bigger Croat than Tudjman? So what a terrible inversion thesis. Let's be without allies, let's be isolated, let's be alone, because that's how we'll be safer. Well, we've experienced that, unfortunately. And Croatia must never be without allies again. Yeah, relying on our armed forces, working on modernising our armed forces, but having allies. They say they'd only accept to participate in the United Nations operations, and we do, and that's fine, but that's not enough. Did the United Nations stop the aggression against Croatia? Was this collective security system successful in stopping aggression against Croatia? It's not. And that's why collective defense systems need, not just collective security systems. And that's the difference. And that's why we need defense alliances, and that's why we need allies who will be with us, that never happens again, that no one else thinks they might attack Croatia. In this, the advantage of Croatian membership in NATO. That was the state's move, and it was from President Tudjman who started that trip, and later when it happened. Now, I'm sure those who may be photographed with Chetniks from the Dvora movement may be responsible for Croatia leaving NATO, to be left without allies, to be exposed to some aggression again. That would suit them, as well as those in Belgrade. But that doesn't suit the Croatian people. And that doesn't match the Croatian state. Croatia is responsible for being a NATO member, of course, and membership has its own obligations, but we must never again be allowed to be without allies. Word here is, we also heard about some LNG that should be like some kind of bogeyman, like it's going to be more expensive gas. And they've brought some of this into contact with national security, and it's okay because it has to do with national security. But I'm telling you, we are today paying for the second most expensive import gas in the European Union. The most expensive one used to pay Lithuania and then decided to build a LNG terminal and is no longer the most expensive gas that they pay, but he did, and those prices fell drastically, thanks to competition. We used to be able to meet more than 60% of our market needs with domestic gas production. Unfortunately, today it falls. And we should be wondering why it's falling and why so much gas imports have now increased. imports of gas, and then imports only come from one direction. Wouldn't it be wise then to have a dissertation with an increase, of course, of domestic production, but still it obviously doesn't suit someone, who presents himself as an anti-stabilisment and may not be aware or is, how much does one actually play the role that some and the stability would want. Yeah, 'cause I remember here, and around this cross-section of LNG, there's a lot of connections to what it was like when we came to NATO. Then we're a lot out of that and like that from... They said we wanted to join NATO, but they were actually doing everything they could to keep us from entering. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I was in diplomacy then, and we were getting these signals, the signal was rushing slowly. We're talking about it outside, and we don't really want to. Some people from those structures, but we managed to get through and get through NATO because it was actually a real policy, yes, there were people at the top and Pantovack after 2000 who said we wanted to join NATO and actually did everything not to join NATO. Yeah, there was that, too. As there are obviously those who talk a lot about LNG, which is not really happening, there is that, but back to the topic, we want security for Croatia, we want Croatia to have allies and therefore it is necessary to be an active member of the NATO alliance. Perhaps, I repeat, those who continue to dream of a great Serbia, which they celebrate today, for example. Ratko Mladic, it was their responsibility to get out of NATO, but it is not in the interest of either Croatia or the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100586	Thank you. Before we move on to more replicas than it has, we welcome the students of the Vladimir Nazor OS from the Križevci gallery. ... And now he will give his replica to the esteemed representative Ivan Bunjec, Branimir Bunjac. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100587	Dear Representative Stier thank you very much, you love the hands of the Americans and that is your right, but when we talk about American politics, you know when the aggression started on Croatia and Slovenia, so you do foreign affairs. When Mr. Secretary of State... came to Belgrade, 25.6.1991 and told Slobodan Milosevic, trampling on them, this is your ally whom you are calling to protect Croatian interests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why the Croatian Army is not '95. In the year she won Banja Luka and prevented the formation of Republika Srpska? Because NATO has said that it will bomb Zagreb and you know it very well and this policy is hypocritical, it is a policy that looks at foreign and imperial interests, and for our interests they don't care. And tomorrow they'll re-deliver us, anyone who needs it, if it's in service, of those same interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100588	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100589	Unlike your argument, I argued that Croatian interests must be at the centre, not Russian, not American, but Croatian interests. And he knew it too, and President Tudjman, and don't pretend you're a bigger Croat than Tudjman, because you're not. Because if Tudjman knew that we also needed this alliance with America to free the country, then I guess today must be clear what the value of it is, by leading to our Croatian interests. So it is also in Croatia's interest to open dialogue with Russia from the NATO member's position and we have done so and as minister, you know well that I have opened that channel as well. By always leading us to protect our interests first, but our interest is not to remain without allies, but to have the most powerful allies, and therefore we need to be a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100590	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100591	Your Honor, you said that I am no bigger Croat than Franjo Tudjman, and if Croatia is measured in such a way, to make a special law, which would allow me to buy an ancient villa, which I could otherwise not buy for just one day, then I am no bigger Croat than Franjo Tudjman. If I don't have 210 thousand marks on my account like Ankica Tudjman had in her day, and she said I understand pensioners living in misery, then I'm really not more of a Croat than the Tudjman family. If I did not create Croatia 200 rich families and remains that survive and emigrate, dig through the trash or go through the soup kitchens then I really am no bigger Croat than Franjo Tudjman and if I did not lead a criminal policy, the division of BIH alliances with Serbs both in Croatia and in BiH and before and now, then I am not really a larger ally or, more Croat than Franjo Tudjman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100592	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100593	Comrade Pernar, I see one coincidence of your thesis with what we heard here from Mrs Pusic, in the same way, it is your right if you want to go that way, if you want Croatia to accuse now of some aggression, not Croatia has defended itself. Croatia had the right to defend itself, Croatia was also the one who first confessed to the BIH, but you just attack in this way, you will not get anywhere and you have said well, that you are no larger Croat than Tudjman I did not go by measuring who the larger Croats are, but I went by telling you, you are talking about some national interest, and you are actually proposing what would be most harmful to Croatia. Croatia must never be alone without allies again Because she must have powerful allies to defend her freedom. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100594	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100595	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Stier, you've made it very clear that Croatian security must no longer come to the questionable stage, no longer at risk. It was the subject of aggression and a strong HV which we need to strengthen and reach the budget of 2% of GDP to be for HV and send it to missions, to exercises, to train and to be with allies in extraordinary relations and to be their real partner. It is a force that will no longer endanger the Croatian borders, nor the Croatian people. All these stories are opponents who are headless and certainly do not want Croatia well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100596	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100597	And fellow Djakic, it is important to work on modernising our armed forces. You said the same thing about it because with alliances, we must of course know how to develop our defense system. And it's a good thing that the Ministry of Defence, which the government has gone that way, of course it's not simple, of course it's demanding, but there's no progress without security, there's no economic development without security. And that's why we have to invest in that security. And we also have to have allies because it gives us another strong position. And that creates exactly a situation where no one will ever think about attacking the Republic of Croatia again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100598	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100599	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Stier, you first need to make a deal with your colleague Djakic, who happened in the '90s. Mr. Djakic said we were helped by the whole war, and you claimed that we had no ally at the beginning of the war. The role of the United States and individual European forces within NATO in the decapitation of Yugoslavia is unquestionable. The processes have been going on around here a lot because they wanted it that way. It is shown, and one day it will be the accepted truth. Who just participated in the RH imposes an embargo? What's the role of the United States of America in that? Please, you must take a good look at the whole story, not tell your propaganda on your side that suits you. As far as LNG is concerned, for the Living Wall, the question of LNG is a matter of value. Let the Americans or whoever else offers a lower price, that will be a more interesting offer for us. Let them offer a lower price.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100600	The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100601	Well, colleague Sincic, if it's a deal, then first you and your colleague Pernar, do you want to keep taking pictures with people from the great Serbian movement like... Or you don't want to. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for how and what happened in the creation of the Republic of Croatia. It is not the Republic of Croatia's fruit of the will of some foreign forces, but the fruit of the aspirations of the Croatian people. And that's the truth. If you can't deal with it, then you have a problem, not with me, but with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100602	Dear Representative Sincic touched the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which was injured which point of the Rules of Procedure was injured. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100603	The chairman, paragraph 238, Mr Stier, namely, is false. It's a picture of anacronism, so... The intruder has an insult, an insult has a lot to do with it.../ Intruder: So I don't know by what/... on the other hand who coalitions with Mr. Pupovac or with Dodig in Bosnia? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: This has nothing to do with telling the truth or the truth has nothing to do with point 238...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100604	Comrade Sincic, you have knowingly injured the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100605	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Stier, you actually encouraged me on the line when you said that the Republic of Croatia should never be alone again and that it must have an ally and that it is working on it, it is obvious and this shows today's decisions from the proposed Ministry of Defence. It is often heard in this Croatian High House. Of course, with a post-fest and later brains. And I remember during the Homeland War and at the beginning of the Serbian aggression that that was when people cried for international assistance for outside intervention. And when you mentioned Tudjman, I now thought of something, which he was aware of one part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who did not want the Republic of Croatia, but he did not complain about his own fate and the fate of the Croatian people, but was looking for allies both inside and outside the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100606	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed counsel Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100607	Well, colleague Babic, just what you last said is the point. So, no moaning, but what was responsible politics, President Tudjman's state policy was to find such allies. Yes, at first, the Republic of Croatia looked like an unwanted child. That's right. But what do we do now? Stay with that fact? No, I don't. But this state policy knew how to find allies and the most powerful in the world. That the Republic of Croatia is never brought into this situation again to be exposed to aggression without allies, but to have the strongest allies. And, of course, to be in league with the most developed democratic countries in the world. And that's what she did. And it's the success of such a policy, such responsible policies. And that's what it is if you want today's lesson for us 2018. And inspiration for what we must do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100608	Thank you. Now, in the name of the "Live Wall" and "Storage" club, the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak finally.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100609	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, I must remind you that the war has come, why the war in the former Yugoslavia at all. It took place in two phases, one phase was the disarmament of Croatia, and you all know that by the JNA directive, which the domestic collaborators had unspeakablely implemented and did not resist. It was a phase. And then there was phase two. The second phase was by the West to introduce an arms embargo in Croatia. So now you've got a country that's disarmed on the one hand and can't buy weapons anymore. The arms importing of Serbia was not damaged by Mr Stier because they were already armed to the teeth. And rather than the International Community, for instance, introduced the embargo only to Serbia, it also introduced it to Croatia. And what exactly is it made of? In fact, the international community has created fertile soil and a fertile land for future conflict. In fact, she put that aggressive large-serb policy in a position to attack Croatia. And then what happens, this same political party that you belong to HDZ calls to Vucic in Croatia, invites Vucic in Croatia, who gave Hague speeches in Glina, who was a party friend of Vojislav Seselj, who before going to Croatia to own it, now and after continuing with the same story. Well, I didn't invite him to visit Croatia. Did I take a picture with Wolfie? Let's move on, you say Mr. Pernar, it might have been a mistake now you're going to say, well, now why painting again with Didik, why the coalition with him? Is it possible there was a war between Croats and Bosniaks because there was an agreement with Milosevic on the division of BiH. You will say that it is not, but you acknowledge the Hague court of HDZ ladies and gentlemen who said it was, that it was this crime policy that led in fact to war and suffering and ultimately to war crimes where HDZ officials and not the functions of the Living Wall, not Branimir Bunjac, not Ivan Willibor Sinčić and not Ivan Pernar were convicted at The Hague war crimes court for the torture of people in camps etc. Also, my dear, my father did not sign the Cyrillic and plead as Yugoslav. But some HDZ officials who are in the coalition with Milorad Dodik are ladies and gentlemen. And when you consider that the same South-Communist personnel actually continued to rule after the '90s, that HDZ actually co-ordinates with them in Croatia with Serbian personnel and in BiH, and it is clear that they are, so they are not... You're giving me moral lessons here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, Mr. Dear, did I open a student home called Radovan Karadzic in BiH or was it your coalition partner Milorad Dodik? How you have the shame and the face to look at in general the Croats from Bosnia Posavina who have been expelled thanks to this policy and this Republika Srpska where you see a partner and an ally. A partner and an ally in what? In broken neighbouring countries, it's your plan and program. It's your plan and programme of HDZ ladies and gentlemen. And us from the Living Wall, called to God as we work with Serbs, we work against Croatia, we have some fingers in some kind of, now you've gone to conspiracy theories. Now you claim what we're conspirators, we're working against the state, etc. Very, very dangerous but the biggest crime that HDZ has committed is not actually against Serbs or Bosniaks, the biggest crime was against a Croatian people who are being scattered today more than in times of war and Serbian aggression. That's what you gentlemen at HDZ forgot. The crime of privatisation, the crime of war profiting, for which the president of the Living Wall, Ivan Vilibor Sincic, was convicted the other day, but the president of the HDZ, Dr. Ivo Sanader, before whom you crawled and worshipped him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100610	Thank you very much. This will conclude the debate on this point, i.e. points, and we will vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-26-0.u100611	Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the OSCE in a mission to support peace "Resolution Support" in Afghanistan, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. I stress that Article 7(6) The constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that a majority of all MPs' votes are required to make a decision, i.e. 76 votes. I am voting on that motion for a decision, please let us vote. I find that most votes, 107 for, 2 abstentions and 4 against a decision on the participation of members of the OSCE in the mission to support peace "Resolution Support" in Afghanistan. We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on Prosecution, second reading of PZ No 312, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation with us is the esteemed Drazen Bosnjakovic, Minister of Justice, please.
