ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88141	President-in-Office of the Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has been making changes to the House Loan Subsidisation Act with a clear goal, which is to give young people the opportunity to resolve the housing issue more easily with subsidies. This law allows young people to create their own home, home for their families, and those who create a home in Croatia will remain in Croatia. Due to the great interest of the citizens and based on the data obtained by an analysis of the application of the Law, it sought to improve this measure, the measure of housing care, through amendments and additions to the existing Law on subsidisation of housing loans. I must point out that last year, 2320 young people with these subsidies bought an apartment, bought a house or went into construction of a house, and that more than 200 children have been born in their homes so far. I can therefore safely establish that this is a good and concrete demographic measure. What Are Changes Bringing? Our intention was for these to be one medium-term measure, i.e. every autumn by 2020, for young people to apply for subsidies. We will provide 3 tenders for the next 3 years, which will primarily enable citizens to better plan to resolve their housing issues and on the other hand, this is an important change so that the construction sector can also plan its activities in building apartments for the next 3 years. We are also introducing a development index in this law and all so that the opportunity to resolve our housing issues can also be used by those from less developed parts of Croatia. To remind you, the House Loan Subsidisation Act was adopted to help resolve housing issues for young people as well as to encourage demographic renewal. This law regulates subsidisation of housing loans taken by citizens, young people under 45 years of age from credit institutions for the purchase of an apartment or house, i.e. building a house for the purpose of resolving their housing issue and in a way that through the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, subsidisation of half the total amount or annuity in the first 4 years of payment of housing credit. According to the law requirements received during the public call period from 4.9 to 13.10.2017, a total of 2320 applications were granted, of which 1682 requirements were for the purchase of an apartment, 462 for the purchase of a house and 176 for the construction of a house. It should also be recalled how an additional 7 million kuna in the budget was provided to all those who sought it and who had valid documentation. The implementation of the laws prior to these amendments allowed the subsidisation of loans for the purchase of flats or houses or the construction of a house in the Republic of Croatia independently of the local self-government unit development index where the apartment or house is located with 50% subsidisation of payment payments or annuities over 4 years. Thus, the most developed in the 8th group of local self-government units was realised more than 66% of the approved requirements, in the 7th group of local self-government units only 11.83 approved requirements were realised in the 2nd group of local self-government units only 0.95% of approved requirements and only 0.3% of approved applications in the 1st group. This data shows that the same amount of subsidy of the total amount of meals or annuities did not result in encouraging the resolution of the housing issue in the area of lower development or reducing the eviction of fewer people from these areas and is one of the objectives of the House of Loans Subsidisation Act. Note, these funds received by these young people are grants and the highest effective interest rate is 3.75 and the banks have offered an effective interest rate ranging from 3.44% to 3.75. Why did we go to law school? The interest of citizens in this measure is extremely high and the proposed Law allows for the continuity of subsidisation in addressing the housing issues of young people and families so that, starting from this year to 2020, on the basis of a public call, it will enable subsidisation of housing loans for young people. This will contribute to the demographic restoration of society and to the reduction of the emigration of young people. The aim is to ensure that this housing measure is medium-term, i.e. through public calls issued by APN over the next 3 years and every year by 2020, requests for subsidisation of residential loans to interested citizens. According to the proposed amendments to the law, an index of development has been introduced because one of our objectives is a balanced development of all parts of Croatia. We want to enable all young people to resolve their housing issues with the help of subsidies. In several developed units of local self-government, a smaller percentage of co-financing is achieved by linear range from the first group with 51% to the eighth group with 30% with an extended co-financing period from 4 to 5 years. This will target more resources for less developed environments using the development index established in the decision on the classification of units of local and regional (regional) self-government by the level of development since 28 December 2017. For example, those who want to buy or build a house in Babina Greda, Gvozda, Gračac, Okucanje will receive a 51% monthly loan war, while in large cities like Zagreb subsidies will be 30%. These amendments to the law set a new deadline by 31 December 2020 in which the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation publishes public calls for each calendar year. In addition, the situation of the apartment or house owned by the applicant or his or her spouse, life partner or informal life partner is more clearly defined and is not suitable for housing. It is also clearer to define the documentation to be attached to the requirement to purchase an apartment or house, or documentation to be attached to the requirement to build a house. A further subsidisation of the loan is also arranged for another year, for a total of two years in the event that the applicant or member of his family household has established a disability greater than 50% of the physical damage. The above-mentioned amendments to the law further emphasises its purpose, which is a contribution to the incentive of a demographic renewal of a company and extends the subsidy period for each child born or adopted for another two years. This is a real and concrete demographic measure because, as I have already said in the new homes of young people who have used subsidies so far, more than 200 children have been born. At the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in the focus of our work it is precisely helping young people to secure a roof over their heads and these subsidies are only one of the measures that we contribute to historical demographic processes. We plan to vote these amendments to the law this week, then make a tender for banks during the summer, get banks that want to borrow below 3.75% and then open a grant tender for our young people who want to stay in Croatia, resolve their housing issue and start their family. Thank you for supporting this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the House Loan Subsidisation Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88142	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88143	Dear President of the Parliament. I'm looking for a break for ten minutes on behalf of all young people leaving the Croatian state. Please give me a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88144	Of course I can't give you that break because the break can be requested by a club of representatives, and as you've formulated it, I'm afraid I can't give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88145	Yeah, but this law applies to young people, so I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88146	You're looking for her, I can't give it to you because that's not what the Rules of Procedure predicts. I'm so sorry. You can speak at the press conference, you can answer for a discussion individually, you can in other ways express your opinion, but the Rules of Procedure does not foresee to give a break in this situation. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.41 HOURS]] Let's go with the replicas, the first is the respected colleague, Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you hereby declare this 17 million kuna aid last year 40 million this year an important demographic measure. I think it's just crumbs and it's just throwing dust in the eyes, it won't reduce our young people's emigration. In addition, how do you use the currency clause in the bill as Deputy Prime Minister, so you're pushing for the euro to be introduced before the euro? You did not specify that potential credit users are still exposed to currency risk and interest risk, you did not explain that. And most importantly, every year this country, or the government, pays about 5 billion kuna interest to the banking system unnecessarily, so if you had 2600 loan requests, for apartments, let's say 100 square meters, you could have reduced by 2 billion kuna from these 5 billion people literally free to share housing loans, apartments, of course, it doesn't make sense to share, but it says all together that this is one superficial and no measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88149	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88150	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. Yes, last year we planned 17 million kuna, this year 42 million kuna, next year we will plan 70 or 80 million kuna and this measure will come in a year near 300 million kuna. But I don't think it matters that many kunas, I think it really matters this policy and the result of that policy. 2320 families have settled their housing issues, in these families, children are born in these homes, and I think it's a very high-quality and real demographic measure, one in a row. And I agree that only with that we can't make a real boom in quality demographic measures, that's one, but there are many. Other ministries also give their funds and invest in the demographic policy of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88151	Thank you. Let's go to another replica, dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88152	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. It seems to me that a more effective demographic measure might be a minister of the economy if, for example, once a month, Croatia is without electricity. So after a year, you'd see what that means in terms of demographics. But I'm interested in something else. We now have a provision that says that we co-finance 50% of credit rates and you say that in the first group of 0.3 you have solved cases of requirements that have come. With 50% increase to 51% of the annuity, how much increase do you expect in the first group? So now they have 50% for 50% was 0.3 requests. Now we're going to increase from 50 to 51%, so I assume you wanted to increase in the first group. By contrast, in the eighth group, 66% of the demands were reduced by 66%, so I'm guessing there's going to be a reduction in demand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88153	Thank you. Please, let's stick to the time limit. Okay. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88154	Dear Parliamentarians. 1% increased from 50 to 51, but increased from 4 to 5 years of subsidies. So it's 12 extra wars, it's a whole year longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88155	We're going to the third line. Dear colleague Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88156	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, here's a good one for the intention of subsidizing loans for young people, really good. But this development index is absolutely unnecessary. We have to say that here the subsidy is reduced for those of the eighth group, the seventh group, the sixth group. You said in the opening statement, those who create a home in Croatia will remain in it. Now tell me, because you keep young people staying in Croatia or just in undeveloped areas? Because you basically reduced the subsidies by the eighth, seventh, sixth group. I couldn't agree with that. You can't increase in this first group by 0.3% to 100% increase by 0.6% because we really want to leave people in Croatia and anyway because in Osijek, Zagreb or underdeveloped areas, you left that 50%, and if the rest you've increased by 60.70%, I'd say bravo, this won't give a positive effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88157	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88158	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, we are allowing these amendments to the law to reapply citizens to the loan subsidy measure, under the existing law it was not possible that we are creating new opportunities for a new demographic measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88159	Let's go to the fourth line, dear colleague Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88160	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I have two articles specifically, Article 13, which you left unchanged, which stimulates a family who receives a child during the duration of the subsidy, by extending it by 2 years, and that would mean a family with one child gets 2 years of additional subsidies while, for example. the family with 5 children born before taking the subsidy and wanting to resolve the housing issue does not have that right to such a subsidy, I think it is wrong and that it should be changed that all families should then have an extension given how many children they have and the other changes you have failed to correct Article 18, which provides that the subsidy is carried out according to the time of acceptance of the complete requirements or to the folk who first his girlfriend. What kind of social and natal policy is this when an advantage is given to a husband and wife without children who apply, say, before a family who has five children and also wants to resolve their living issue. I believe that such families must have an advantage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88161	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88162	The competition will be announced and will be minimum one week for registration. All those who will come forward and have adequate documentation will receive a subsidy to the loan war. As for children, for each newborn child or adopted child during the duration of the subsidy, the period of 2 years shall be extended.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88163	Now it's time for a respected colleague named Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88164	Dear President of the Parliament. So in the last five years, Knin has left 4000 403 people. And that's up to 40 years old. In the wider area, we also have municipalities that belong to the first group of development indices, so really not developed where the average year is 70 people, 70 years old. Tell me how many requests there have been in the previous competition in the region of Knin or in the area of these municipalities, such as the Civilians, Ervenik diocese. And do you expect now with these changes and additions that there will be a change, i.e. the retention of people in Knin or an increase in the number of people who want to settle in Knin?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88165	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88166	Dear Madam Parliamentarian. With these amendments to the law, we will allow again people, young people to report for subsidies, both Knin and all municipalities around Knin and across the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88167	Dear fellow Lalovac, you're next.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's just a little bit of technical seeing that you mentioned here that there were 100 requests, so 2300, so actually an assessment of the source of the funds, you actually left it as probably from the past law just 1000 and that amount of 42 million kuna since you're now saying it's going to be larger amounts. And the other thing, I think you should, if you had, and in your presentation you are, which is why I wanted to ask you already what the interest rate is, that's 3.75 as far as I understand it, it would be good to say very clearly whether that interest rate is allowed after this deadline has expired, whether banks can increase that interest rate because it has to be equal to the end of the loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88169	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88170	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. We will, after voting this law, make a public tender for banks and there will be a maximum of 3.75 interest but last year the banks had a 3,04% bid so we only go with the upper amount and the contract is signed by citizens with the bank and you know that we have very well regulated the banking market with the latest amendments to the Law on the financing of residential loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88171	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88172	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, first congratulations on these changes and additions, I think a good demographic measure is one in a series to be achieved by this government. But the same about this development index, of course, is the urgency that everything is not going to Zagreb and that it is not being built and not buying the most but we must take an example specifically from Split where it is impossible to rent an apartment at this time and let alone buy it. So there's one percent higher in subsidisation definitely need to stay. And those little problems that our colleagues had just raised these loans that APN might have to mention in the negotiations with the banks, which is after all this documentation that was better regulated in this law was only small problems with the approval of the loan application, so there may be a more flexible pink bank because some colleagues had created bigger problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88173	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88174	Dear Mr. Parliamentary Representative, Split is indeed a specific city is a great demand for residential space, real estate prices have risen enormously and here we see a solution by building POS apartments and intensively communicating with the mayor and the city of Split to allow young people through POS apartments to solve their housing issues and start a family.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88175	Now it's up to the esteemed colleague of the bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88176	Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honorary Deputy Prime Minister, you're saying co-financing is a loan war, so that's the purpose of a demographic recovery, that's how it's explained. I ask you which families in Croatia have an opportunity for demographic renewal when the vast majority of contracts on work at a certain time have young people. Are you aware that according to the report for May 2018 HZZ 51.5% of the unemployed are under 45 years old and these people are exactly, these young people are just targeted by a group of this law if it is to trust this argument of yours. How they can take advantage of these measures and then how it can affect demographic restoration. These are key questions you haven't offered an answer to.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88177	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88178	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. With this measure last year alone, 2320 young families have settled their housing issues and established a family, and more than 200 children have been born so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88179	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88180	Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. 2320 families, 165 children are so on your website, the official site of the ministry in 2017, and says this in public consultation of the respondent ministry to the citizens' inquiry, have you done any research and projections to determine the percentage of the subsidy according to the development index, do you have any information on what are the main obstacles to the acquisition of the situation in areas with a lower development index. The answer is short, underestimating and cynical. Research has shown that this measure helps to restore demographics. Please tell me what research these are? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88181	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88182	Yes, we've been doing research, we've been doing research because of this second programme, because of the POS project of housing for deficits, so we've also covered an amendment to the POS Act since two weeks ago that you voted on. And this law, we guarantee that this is a demographic measure, a quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88183	Now it's Comrade Batinic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Vice President. You mentioned when you were talking about the development index one category that was defined through another resolution ministry. In fact, whether there might have been a possibility of some other criteria because obviously this development index is, and you said that, and in your report, it was that the highest rate of withdrawal of these loans, the greatest use, is precisely in the most developed environments. I am interested in whether, in due course, there may be other criteria other than the development index, whether interest might be strengthened in less developed areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88185	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88186	Thank you very much. The subsidisation of apartments, for it we used the development index is the official category, the category adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that is the category published in the National Journal and it is precisely made on the facts. And other measures also consider other ways of financing and co-financing, such as building POS apartments, along with mayors, mayors where this need is for APN and the Ministry of Construction, I stand at the service and can build apartments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88187	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88188	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, since you've been doing research, I have some advice for you that you have a young demographic named Mr. Strott, so here's a tip to take him into your ministry to help you explore demographics. The second question, what measures have you taken to encourage a group of people working on a specific contract and who are not creditworthy since research shows that this is exactly the group of people leaving Croatia the most and not covered by this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88189	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88190	With these amendments, we allow young people to return to the competition and resolve their housing issues and start a family.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88191	Now it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88192	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Štromar, in your bill of law, you have prescribed some basic hygiene and technical conditions for life. Since this is one of the restrictions for someone to go to the competition, can you explain to us what kind of hygiene and technical conditions will be required, by government decision or by some act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88193	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88194	Your Honor, MP. On the basis of the previous competition, we found that the law did not define what adequate real estate is because people happen to have real estate, but it is not suitable for housing. One who is not adequate is not accepted as being able to live there and one who lives in such a property can apply and can buy a new property with a loan-subsidized loan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88195	Now it's time for the esteemed fellow Uncle. He's not here, so he's losing his right to speak. Then he's a colleague, Mikulić Domagoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88196	I thank the President of the Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. I agree with most of the things you said in your debate. We needed more than one quality multi-annual financial incentive for young people who create their families, who create their own home. But what I'm interested in is, given the introduction of the development index as a criterion and this increase in subsidies by one year, have you done any calculations and to what extent is this reflected in the total amount of the subsidy, since I would say that I would also rightly have my Emotions felt and withdrawn since their subsidy from 50 fell to 33%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88197	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88198	Your Honor, Mr. Parliamentarian. We expect an extremely large response to this measure, and we have agreed with Prime Minister and Minister Maric that no matter how many people will report in the first week, we will provide funds for everything in the course of the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88199	Okay. Now it's time for a respected colleague, Macar. Here you go. .
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, well-respected ministers. It is indisputable that this is one of the demographic measures, it is also undeniable that we all stand here against us moving out of rural areas, and here we are now against this measure where exactly that criterion is included in it. However, what I would ask you to once again explain to me what obviously many of us here in the assembly are not clear enough is the lending of those who are capable or able to resolve the housing issue of those who are not creditworthy. As far as I understand credits are granted by the bank and it has credit conditions and it's usually permanent employment. And this is just an additional measure and stimulation and assistance to these families in the form of loan subsidies, not measures to address the housing issue of our young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88201	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88202	Dear Madam Parliamentarian. We also have the possibility for those who are not creditworthy, who do not have paid indefinitely, work on indefinitely, a contract on work on indefinitely, which is a measure of POS rental, and therefore again I invite all the mayors, mayors to report to APN, to the ministry so that they can also provide these people with a roof over their heads and solve the housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88203	Thank you very much. If the committees want to take the floor, the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor. Here you go, Mrs. Topolko, president of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88204	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the respected ministers with a co-worker, respected MPs and MPs. At its 21st session on 19 June 2018, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on subsidising residential loans, the emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 362 which has been delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by an act of 14 June 2018. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed that act as the home working body. In the opening statement of the basic provision of this proposal, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia stressed that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law would allow for the continuation of subsidisation of housing loans and as a continuous measure, the possibility of making public calls for the delivery of applications for subsidisation of housing loans for each year until 31 December 2020 is laid down. According to the proposal, the distribution of subsidies will depend on the index of the development of the city or municipality in which the apartment or house is located, wishing to give an additional incentive for the purchase of apartments in less developed areas. Furthermore, the amount of subsidisation is also defined for new loans, will be between 30% and 51% of a monthly meal or annuity, and the period for subsidising housing loans will be extended from 4 to 5 years. These amendments extend the credit subsidisation period for each newborn child as a demographically targeted measure and where the applicant or member of his family household has a specified disability greater than 50% of the physical damage. During the debate, the adoption of this law is supported. A part of the board members assessed the questionable solution for a more balanced distribution of loans depending on the index of development of the municipality or city in which the subsidized apartment or house is located. Most of the votes, 8 votes in favour, 1 abstentions, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of amendments and additions to the House Loan Subsidisation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88205	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mrs. Sonja Cikotic, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists Most. Here you go, Mrs. Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88206	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected colleagues from the ministry, respected ministers. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the House Loan Subsidisation Act with a final draft of the law. Amendments to the law have been made, and as the applicant points out, for the purpose of encouraging demographic renewal of society, urban regeneration of settlements and reducing the emigration of young families and helping citizens through subsidisation of housing loans. I think that state intervention in the area of housing is necessary, and that it can be good, but as it happens with us, it's gone the wrong way. Apartments can buy those who have money, those who are employed with an indefinite employment contract, they are creditworthy, while the ministry assures us that the purpose is demographic restoration. Are you aware that according to research by the Institute of Social Research, the Science and Higher Education Agency, which included 59 Croatian schools, or 13 301 students, 52% say that the future will look beyond Croatia's borders and find work in some of the EU countries. The government is offering them exactly what? Subsidized credit war. Are these measures that plan to keep youth because if youth goes away, knowledge goes away, expertise goes away, education goes away, and the future goes away. Your plan is to keep loans no less than 15 years old, young people to start a family in the Republic of Croatia, to reduce the percentage of co-financed wars as they move out. As with the current draft laws, which come from the ministry, unfortunately, public consultation on which there have been many quality and reasoned proposals of citizens and legal persons, has not received a quality response from the ministry. As the citizen points out in the public consultation, since there has been a change of law to help undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia and affected by the greatest emigration of young people should be resolved in a way that will bear fruit, and the reduction of the subsidy percentage is not. The conditions are worse this year than moving forward. And that would be a summary of these amendments and additions to the law. We did not go forward with the amendments in a way to encourage the largest number to solve the housing issue or their own housing needs, but rather to reduce the amount of the subsidy towards development or a slight increase towards undeveloped areas with insufficient overall means of implementation of the Law. So I'll say... which is the fifth group of development, they will today have 39% credit rates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Slavonia nuts will have 39% credit rates. There's a burn in the sixth group. They will no longer have 50% credit rates, but Požega will have 36% credit rates. Stocks, Gospić 36%. Osijek 33%. And Slavonia is moving out, the Dalmatian Zagora is moving out, the islands are moving out, so Croatia is moving out. And we're bound to the development index. I'm telling you, Orahovica, Sisak, Požega belong to Group 5 and 6 where credit rates will be from 33-39%. And the Agency's statistical indicators for... traffic and real estate is seen as 2328 approved subsidized housing loans of them 821 were from the city of Zagreb where the interest and needs of the citizens were the highest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After all, as in other major cities, there were 105 in Osijek, in Split 75, in Rijeka 47, mainly for the purchase of apartments that account for 73% of all requirements. And in smaller places, interest was greater in buying or building a house. Where citizens are the most interested, there will be a reduction of even 20% of the monthly war, and by 1% we will increase the amount in undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia. So I note that 66.28% of the demands were realised in the most developed 8th group. That 11.38% of the demands were realised in the 7th group. In the 6th group, 10.49% of approved requests, and from group 5 to group 1 total of 11.4%. While in 1st group, 0.3% of the applications were granted. This shows that the amount of the subsidy of the total amount of the instalments... they did not result in encouraging the resolution of the housing issue in areas of lower development or reducing the eviction of young people from these areas, which is one of the objectives of the House Loan Subsidisation Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in response to preventing the emigration of young people from the Republic of Croatia, and especially from undeveloped parts that are mostly rural, you went to a reduction in the amount of subsidies towards development, or a slight increase towards the lack of development of certain areas with insufficient total resources provided for by this Act. Furthermore, in public consultation in response to the relevant ministry to the question of citizens whether you did any research or projections in determining the percentage of the development index subsidy, you have any information that is the main obstacle to the purchase of a house, an apartment in the area with a lower development index, your answer was short. Research has shown that this measure helps to restore demographics. I thought this was a measure of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning because here it is. What research by the Ministry has shown that this measure helps demographic recovery in undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia, and that would mean that the areas that you have now reduced the amount of credit subsidies do not have demographic problems. Such solutions and housing policy measures are not all-inclusive, they do not offer a complete solution if you say the purpose is demographic reconstruction, so the Ministry proposes a demographic renewal only to those who take credit for a minimum period of 15 years, which would mean they have to have a job, that they have to be creditworthy. What family in the Republic of Croatia has an opportunity for demographic restoration when the vast majority of working contracts have young people for a certain time? Are you aware that according to the report for May 2018 HZZ 51.5% of the unemployed are just young to 45 years of age? Do they only have a chance, according to your proposal, for the demographic restoration of those families that have money, whose family members are working and who have a contract to work indefinitely because it assumes credit ability. What if a family had bought a car before or had borrowed another loan because they might have more, more family members have four, five children, so they needed it. They may not be creditworthy, so they have no demographics. Because you called her demographic. The government's proposal to amend the law says that this measure will help young people, while the first property tax of 4% was introduced, and this tax relief meant a lot to young families who first bought real estate and this cannot therefore be seen as an adequate replacement. And it is not an adequate substitute in the administrative scope of the job, because all you offer is once again a job to bureaucrats to discuss the competition, to report citizens, to record bureaucrats one child at a time who is born and to issue endless extension solutions, and to monitor all this with a watchful eye on Croatian bureaucracy. Active measures aimed at the development of family policy should be ensured. Among other things, we also think about increasing the number of apartments for privileged rent, so that more families can resolve their housing issue and remain in the Republic of Croatia. And of course, there are not enough resources to implement this law, so here I call on that in order for money to be in the budget, there should be a will for reform. And this is the reform of the public administration for which 880 million kuna has been secured, whose use so far is at 5-6% of those 880 million kuna, and in the 6th month is 2018, and this reform aims to digitise, depolitise and optimise the number of public administration employees. If done, about 20% of the budget would be released, so there would be more money for measures for demographic recovery. On this proposal, MOST of Independent Lists will propose amendments in a way that increases the amount of subsidies for undeveloped areas of 85% of the war, with the retention of a 50% subsidy for other areas, and to increase the total amount of funds foreseen for the implementation of this law, as well as to complete the provisions on the extension of the child's birth, disability, proof of basic hygiene technical conditions for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88207	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Anka Dark-Taritash's turn outside the GLAS and HSU's Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88208	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, assistant minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the House Loan Subsidisation Act, as the minister said. The analysis also showed that, under the existing Law, there were 2325 requests. If these amendments and additions to the law were to apply to the increase from 4 to 5 years, to the extension of the entire project of subsidisation of residential loans, we would absolutely say ok, this is one of the stories but it simply isn't. In the opening statement, the Deputy Prime Minister spoke of urban reconstruction, regeneration and transformation, that sounds good. That sounds good, but urban reconstruction is where urbanity exists. Urban restoration can be in cities, urban reconstruction can be where that story is, so this has nothing to do with it. Demographic renewal, in the replica I gave to the Deputy Prime Minister, I said, there is indeed one measure that the economy minister can easily say, order HEP to once a month be without electricity. Let's see what the result would be in a year, in two, for three, because that's the result we already have. So when you do an analysis then you see that the number of children born in Croatia after part of Croatia was without electricity, and that there are fewer children born in Croatia when SP is in football, when the EP is in football and you can clearly see that. Croatia is located when it comes to the word, I will say a few words about demographic restoration, it is in front of an extremely important task, in front of an extremely important job and this is just one of the things. By the way, we're at the GLAS and HSU club, too, and we're going to push for it, so let's give the citizens as many opportunities as possible. Offer as many variants as possible, offer variant a, b, c but don't say anything we do and put your foot in the door right now. It's just not good. On the one hand we say we open up, we offer, the more people we can be, but at the same time we have a foot in the door, the foot in the door I'm talking about? 8 groups according to the development index. For the 8th group, they now have these 0.3 approved requests with 50% subsidized wars and we increase them from 50 to 51. The question is who, for the 1st group where we have, or vice versa, in the 1st group that's the worst 0.3, and the 8th is where the city of Zagreb, 66% and 66%, the 28 demands are resolved, and they should be said to be reduced to 30%. So you're the only one who's the worst group, so what's the least degree of development, first you're going to give an increase of 50 to 51, is going to be interesting to see in a year how much of this has increased these 0.3. There are no people there, there are people who can't raise their loans and we come up with one essential problem. The main problem is that Croatia has no housing policy. She doesn't even have a social policy and she doesn't have a housing policy. And we come up with that problem of decentralisation of Croatia, housing policy for the sake of states, municipalities and cities together because it's the only way they can make them, and housing policies can't be all the same and can't be the same housing policy in a single space where they live basically in family homes and in a place where they basically live in more residential houses. And that's the effort we need to make. And that's the step we need to take and that's where we need to decide. If the step was decided so it's said in Group 1 we increase from 50 to 90%, then it's a step and then it's something for that first group. For this first group this doesn't mean anything, they actually stay the same. So let's just say that this is just such a light measure on the camel subject, of which for the first group, they won't be better or worse, but they'll all be worse. Why? The question is, why are we doing this? In this way you'll complicate even those who will endure and besides, we're forcing our fellow citizens into something that we must be masters of. We're masters to pass the law, to even be correct, but then to invent how we try to get out of this whole law. These changes and additions by introducing these 8 groups according to the development index are simply not good. If you'd decided to do 2 or 3 provisions and if you said we'd increase from 4 to 5 years, we'd leave 50%, or we'd increase by one piece, I'd say, the effort is, let's back up, it's all good together, in glue we're allowing more people to decide to take a loan, go outside. We don't need to talk about why people go outside, have a return, and we're discussing anything, so let's ask these people who go outside why they're going out. And when the employers' association had its annual meeting, she did research before that. That research showed that the majority of those who went outside had a settled housing issue here, they also had a salary, even higher than the average, went out for some other reasons. So, there's a reason why people go out and we need to deal with it seriously. In contrast, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has made in terms of subsidisation of the loan only one small part, but the next problem opens, we again force our fellow citizens to raise loans. Why? Why didn't we decide to rent apartments? Why haven't we decided to build apartments and offer them for rent, for the simple reason that you then make houses in large cities, people are hired and people are then at one point from that decision to live in Osijek, there are rents, they are offered a better job in Split, they go to Split and they know that the apartment is not a problem. In this way you no longer have a gray market rent, so you have flexible and mobile workforce and in this way the state says this is one of the methods that we help our fellow citizens, so those who decide to buy that apartment because they are good, because they want to live there, we offer a ransom. But it's one of the significant steps in housing policy and a significant step in demographic terms. I well remember the analysis that was in Split in 2015, in Split was one analysis, one week there was a survey of 1700 families said it was ready and would like to have an apartment for rent. So why do we not listen to those people who speak? People who leave Croatia clearly tell us why we should leave. So let's listen to them and let's answer what they're telling us. Equally, it says this will improve the construction sector. Well, our construction sector is busy right now, but you know what? There's no labour force. He's got machines, he's got operatives, he's got machines, he's got machines, he's got machines, he's got the simplest machine, he's got a simplest machine, he's got a retraining machine, he's got a driver who has a B category can come up to it, and he can work on a diver for, say, digging trenches to lay down the infrastructure, there's no one sitting behind that machine, and there's no one to drive, and there's no one to requalified. It's an effort that the ministry needs to make to see what it does. When you talk to the construction sector a little bit and you ask them what the situation is, they say we have work to do. It's absolutely no problem, we can make a good deal, we can charge, it's no problem, but we don't do it because we don't dare. Because the builder, a good builder, I'm giving him 1,000 euros, that I'm paying him a little Euros, plus all the giving, everything that, all those bonuses, I'm not sure he's coming to my job on Monday, he's going to offer him some BRUTO salary in the Western European countries of 1700, 1800 and he's going to go there for a BRUTO salary, he's not going to work for me on the NETO salary. It's an effort to make. We'll have a need, but the question is who's going to work, someone else is going to work. And we're coming up with something called the administration. If you want to complicate your life, then make your life as complicated as possible, so make it complicated in a way that you don't say and don't share it, so you don't say from the first to the sixth groups is a subsidy that, for the seventh and the eighth, you're complicated in life, and then you split it into eight, and then there's still going to be a calculation of what and how, but the effect is smaller. Clearly, subsidisation is less than it is right now. There is a complicated life, and then in the explanation it was said that the existing list of necessary documentation was insufficient, and that is what we love, it doesn't matter. And when someone asks you, I once asked a colleague and she said, "Look, I have a problem when I was teaching the project, and I told her if the reference officer asks you to sign a green pen, sign a green pen and don't ask. So in this documentation, we are now introducing a category of basic hygiene technical conditions. And someone in the public notebook will make a statement about what his real estate is basic hygiene technical conditions. We're just going to open a new hole in the dam, a new niche, so someone's going to prove what their basic hygiene technical conditions are, so someone else is going to prove that they're not. If there was a problem with the requirements where there was a partner or a spouse had some other real estate, so it was a problem of proving in what state or condition it was, then it had to be solved differently, not so. In conclusion, this law is not a step forward, this law is actually more complicated. On the one hand, we're going to make a declaration, and here we are, and we're going to give, and on the other hand, we're going to put our foot in the door. If you hadn't divided by groups of development, if you hadn't complicated, I'd say the measure is good, let's move on, let's support, every measure that helps our citizens is welcome. However, what should be an effort would be such that this law really shows this, and this law has fewer subsidists than you are today to those who have needs, but cry out from this pay phone, rent apartments, rent apartments, that's something that in terms of demographics can be an improvement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88209	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, Mr. Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88210	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here today we have the Law on subsidising housing loans at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. As we know, the law was actually passed last year, and these are changes and additions, and now the question is why did we go to changes and additions? The minister will say that's because the greater interest he was than we originally imagined with that law, okay, that might be, those figures show. But the other thing that goes into such measures is to correct certain segments of the law that were originally not foreseeable. So when the law went to work last year, here's the little bit of co-op, and we agreed that we had something to say, here's what we're worried about, we're taking care of the demographics, we're taking care of the young people so they can stay home so they can have kids, we're developing basically to stay in the Republic. I studied this law, studied the changes and additions, and my impression is that few people, and perhaps no one, because the government passed this law, or the Parliament passed this law, is why and because of that, it is now going to think about buying real estate. No, but the one who went to buy it, which he would normally buy because he wanted it, he has to, he needs the kind of real estate that would otherwise have bought that he took advantage of this opportunity to be the first four years, now it's going to be five years subsidized by that war. It's a very volatile measure, we in Croatia have a number of problems... said in a strategy in planning long-term policies, we do not plan long-term at all. The policy code lasts for two years, a year, a year, a year went by last year's law was scheduled to work for a year. We now extend it until 2020 until 31.12.2020, as when you solve a housing issue then you solve it for a year or four years, then you solve it permanently in the Republic of Croatia. But we don't think permanently, we think in the short term. Another problem with planning our policies, I'm speaking now, in general, is insufficient precision. So we cut off the knife and put the border on, I don't know about a thousand kunas, and whoever has 999 kunas doesn't have a right, and whoever has a thousand and one right is right, and realistically, if they're looking here somewhere, there's no big difference between their positions. So we find ourselves in a situation where we have these unfortunate 8 categories that are determined by the decision on the classification of JLS units and regional self-government according to the level of development by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There were already words here about how they were put in the wrong way, how some units of local self-government, cities and counties that we know aren't developed, where people are running from were found in the same rank as those at sea, which are developed and where the population is increasing. Only that is enough reason to object to this law, it does not put all Croatian citizens in an equal position, that is precisely that lack of precision. In order to be maximum effective, we must look at how much this is possible for the economy of every household or, of course, we can never have every household but form into some groups of these households and then we should do politics. No, Croatia has no such practice, we cut off the knife, we put some categories of criteria and then we get a series of absurds. These absurdities are witnessed by public consultation, unfortunately I am afraid that no objection or comment from our citizens if and who has not been used to supplement this law, which I am extremely sorry about. Citizens inside indicated what problems these problems face and how the law could be improved a little bit. I repeat, the economy of a particular household has not been seen. It is not the same to be in Zagreb to have an average salary of 7 thousand kuna and to be somewhere outside I do not know in Slavonia where the average salary is 4 thousand kuna. After all, it's not just about accepting what the pay is. Five thousand kuna is a big salary if you can buy a lot with it. In Croatia you can't live with 5,000 kunas, so you should look at purchasing power. What about some Croatian citizens, the Croatian family, looking at their incomes and expenses, the cost of living, a basket of consumers, how much is purchasing power? How long does it stay for a month so you can pay off some loan war, that you can invest in an apartment, or if you're a tenant to sort out your own question in that way. We did not in this way form our policies in these models. That's what I wanted to ask, but I couldn't have two replicas, I'm asking now. By what criteria are classified in this way, cities and counties have said. I read in the Regional Development Act there is not quite quite clear on how it counts, which is the equation, so it's thrown into some criteria, but this just leads to the wrong trail and it needs to be kept. Such classifications should be kept. In this particular proposal, it is better that, yes, I agree with my colleagues before, it is better that there is no sorting at all than it is as it is. Another thing about long-term long-term, yes, if you take a long-term job that housing credit certainly is, 10, 20, 30 years of commitment to someone or something like any investor who invests something sees what the situation will be and what the conditions will be in 5 years, in 10 years. Who doesn't guarantee that in five years or before, a real estate tax will be introduced. After all, this government has already gone to one such project, including the former one. In each of its reports, the EU particularly stresses you need to introduce a property tax, which is the one that is simple, and which is the one that was announced at the end of 2020. So whoever goes into one of these one way he's not sure what's gonna happen in five years. What happens to us when we apply the law? What happens to us is that there are more people reporting for help, or to help them with the loan payment, right where the greatest perspective for life is. These are larger cities above all Zagreb and the Adriatic coast. We have seen for these settlements in the first category, by the moss these areas are affected by the war we give a very small interest in buying real estate. Pass through these rural areas of Kordun, Banovina, Baranja, Dalmatian Zagora, Croatian islands, not to forget someone, Srijema. What's the perspective there? People out there mostly watch how to get out of there and not how to get up there, make it happen, buy real estate and live there. And if we split 5 billion kunas again, that money will be distributed and if we were to, we should talk about billions because this isn't some serious, serious money. We might be if most of the problems were solved, if we were in better shape and we weren't. So that money would be distributed again where there are mostly perspectives, where there are jobs and these are big cities, where Zagreb would be dominated again, because of centralisation and the Adriatic coast. So to give this one measure, this kind of law in the bad conditions that we have, the weak purchasing power, the incompetent judiciary that I've been saying today, the general hopelessness situation and everything that we say every day and the government can't even move to solve and simply sow grain on stone, there and there, something will come up. But we can't say that this will encourage someone to come here now because of this measure now he's going to solve his living issue, no. But for those who have already decided to solve it, despite all these bad conditions, they will take it. Why don't you take this subsidy for at least the first five years? Why don't you take it. So it's not serious to say here that it's a demographic, a demographic measure, we can talk about it as a consequence rather than a demographic condition and it's supposed to be a cause, we'd have to take measures to stimulate demographic development, but the government doesn't do it at all. It's also important to say one important thing, a catastrophic thing, that one thing that's been abolished is how good a measure is, and that's not paying a tax on the first real estate. So take the situation now, let's say where the largest reduction from 50% to 30% will now be given to the 8th category, there's Zagreb, a million kuna for a small larger family, tax by 4% and that's 40 thousand kuna. And if you look at how many states would subsidize those 30% wars over a few years, it'll come to you somewhere. So everything that the state gives you over 5 years, now is 5, before 4, if you have children and more, which it gives you, every month over 5 years, right now when you buy it, because you immediately get a solution from the tax administration, get me 40 thousand kuna. It's hard to get any payment on the wars, I know from my example, now cash me 40,000 kunas and then we'll pay you in five years. And there's this somewhere, it kind of cancels out, it kind of cancels out. So as far as the 8th group is concerned, there will be a lot of cases, especially in Zagreb that what the state actually does through subsidies will take over that property tax. Many of this absurdity occurs, the unequal development of Croatia should, of course, be taken into account but not through these indices because it is miscalculated. We pay the same salary to a judge in Osijek and a judge in Dubrovnik and it is much more expensive to live in Dubrovnik. We pay the same salary to a cop in Slatina and a cop down south, let's say the same thing in Dubrovnik. And we know there's nothing down there to live on from that salary, to sleep in cars or spend their pay to rent something because the state doesn't have a place for them there. The same archaic cannot be used in a country that, which is, is such a gap in the development of wages in purchasing power and everything else. The indices were supposed to solve this and they didn't solve it, and that's why they shouldn't be used in the bill. There's a potential string for abuse, so a public notary statement that someone doesn't have a house or an apartment. Was there an abuse? Now, I'm asking in public, was there any abuse that anyone reported having something or not so it was the opposite? Did someone abuse this measure to make, say, an apartment at sea, transfer property to someone, take action to make or buy an apartment, were there any such cases? Whether or not the assets of close family members, relatives, etc. have been examined.? Hygienic technical conditions, I've already asked Minister Stromar what it means, if what's prescribed, I realized from the answer that it's not prescribed anything but that it's just going to be what we don't know. Which will mean technically, these hygienic technical conditions. Of course, there are cases of people, a lot of cases that they inherited some kind of house, a barn somewhere, that it's real estate, that they're registered, that they're book owners, and then it's an obstacle for them to exercise some rights. Of course, such an obstacle should be advertised, but it is unclear that these are hygienic technical conditions. If this becomes as complicated as these development indices, it will be a major obstacle to the implementation of any measure. If you ask a public notary in which way Croatian citizens buy real estate, especially young people, in general, it is almost entirely meant borrowing a loan, few who now have money to bring here, the one who has it mainly sold something, so the notebook along the way and the purchase contracts for that property confirms. That one of the absurdities is that the first category with 50% will now have 51% subsidy, hardly worth mentioning. What will such a measure change? Nothing. But she clearly says, here's some kind of framework that some money is inside, so we have to distribute it somehow, so this is the most we can pull through this measure. I would say, generally speaking of this kind of housing, and we know that Croatia can't develop until we give people, first of all, to young people the first job, then we're solving the housing issue, and the most important thing is the perspective, that someone believes in this country that it's worth staying, that something can be expected in the long term, because if nothing can be expected, neither will anyone buy or anyone will count on this measure, nor will anyone start a family, and this government simply doesn't show perspective, there are a series of fields where there are no serious measures, this little offer is too small and too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88211	It's in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club now, Mr. Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ advocates' club will support the Final Proposal of the House Loan Subsidisation Act. At the beginning, I would say that this law is nevertheless a priority measure coming from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, which is aimed at fostering housing and, in addition to this, clearly, construction in the Republic of Croatia, but it should certainly be seen in the context of demographic measures implemented by the Government of Croatia which recognised the demographic renewal as one of the most important measures in the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would remind, immediately, when I speak of demographic measures, that in the course of the year from 1 July 2017 until today, the government has adopted several important innovative measures that seek to meet first row young Croatian families through the measures of the most promising policies that further allocate significant resources from the state budget. So I would single out a 50% increase in maternity and parental benefits since 1 July 2017, from 1 July of this year and according to the Children's Compensation Act, which will hopefully be adopted on this Friday, the coverage of children will be extended to receive a child's allowance of 150 000 so there will be a total of 450 000 children's allowance in Croatia, which means that by 1/3 the number of children who will be in the child's allowance system is increased. It is built at this time or upgrades over 300 kindergartens in Croatia, two-way work in kindergartens is being introduced. There has been an increased deduction for children, thus increasing their parents' beaches, so a number of measures that have a significant item in the expenditure part of the budget are trying to improve the demographic image in Croatia. But I will return to what I said at the beginning and that this Law is nevertheless primarily addressed by measures to improve the situation in the construction sector although I should say and I want to say at the beginning that the volume of works, construction works in Croatia in 2017, has increased by around 6.8% compared to 2018, and in the largest part of those construction works relating to housing because this increase in the volume of construction works refers to works on buildings and they are participating somewhere more than 56% compared to construction works on other buildings and from one analysis that has been made notice that when it comes to these construction works on buildings, the largest di refers to new construction, which means that there has been more intensive building of apartments in the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about this Act, about the achievement of this Law, then before I say anything about it, I would like to say that the Republic of Croatia or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not only implementing this measure in terms of encouraging the resolution of housing issues and helping our citizens, but in addition to this measure, there are two other significant measures, and this is POS and subsidising housing savings. In this year's state budget positions for all 3 measures, therefore, POS and subsidisation of housing savings and subsidisation of housing loans, 230 million kunas are allocated this year, out of which to promote housing savings of 30 million, for POS 155 million kuna and for subsidising housing loans of 42 million kuna. So a total of about 230 million kunas, which then throws away, I would say, a new light and to this measure that stems from the House Loan Subsidisation Act. I must say we are discussing this three times in the Croatian Parliament on this law. For the first time, as minister, I proposed the law in 2011, and when the law was first presented in the Croatian Parliament, interest on housing loans in Croatia, where the average interest was 6.5%. According to CNB data, the current average rate on housing loans in Croatia is 3.5%. Therefore, no, excuse me, last year was 4.8%, which shows that the interest on residential loans in Croatia has been reduced by 2% in the past few years. What is important to mention here in this Law, i.e. that so far, in 3 years as this law has been implemented, so 2011, 2012 and 2017, the total grant of a loan of 4578. So in the 3 years of the realisation of this loan in 2011, 2012, and 2017, a total of 4578 apartments were subsidized, i.e. 1500 apartments per year. It's not a small number if we compare it to the Encouragement Building Act where, through the realisation of that law in the past 16 years, about 6500 have been subsidized. What I would like to single out, and what it says about the betrayal of this measure stems from this law, is that it is on a 100 000-euro loan that is as likely to subsidise the beneficiary of this loan from the state over 4 years has so far received about 14% of the value of that loan, so 14 000 euros. During the first presentation of this law in the Assembly in 2011, I said that this amount was about necessary for a young family who bought an apartment from the state under this law, through such a subsidy could completely send the same apartment. We must not forget when it comes to becoming a user of this apartment that this apartment is generally empty and that it should be equipped and that the state in this way subsidized loans will allow this same young, young family in Croatia through this subsidy free of charge, if I may say so, the equipment of that one apartment, because I say at the amount of 100,000 euros is obtained 14%, and that is 14 000 over then, 4 years, and now I will say something later, now that deadline and extends. So that's very important. A colleague, Sincic, had previously said that by abolishing the tax on property sales, the state with this way that what it had taken away from you by removing the tax on real estate sales. This is not true, namely in Croatia the real estate tax is 4%, so if 4%, on the other hand the subsidy is 14%, then the state still through this law allows these users three times the amount of funding through the subsidy compared to what was ordered to pay by paying and subsidising the property tax. On the other hand, I would refer to and welcome the measure to build in a certain way the amount of the subsidy, from those relating to the units of local self-government that are classified in 8 categories according to the development index, in relation to those that are classified in category 1. So here we're talking about this range of 30 to 50%, but we can't forget a few things. The first thing is that compared to the original law that spoke about 4 years of subsidisation of housing loans, we are now talking about 5 years instead of 4 so this already significantly increases the amount of subsidies in those units of local self-government that are less developed, but which is not less important, since this law is primarily intended for young families, during the period of subsidisation in case a child is given in that family, then it is still extended by two years. We heard just before from the Deputy Prime Minister that out of 2,000 users of this loan, this law in the last year over 200 children in families who found themselves in this law that more than 200 children were born, which means that these same young families were allowed to continue to co-finance, or receive funding from the state budget. When we talk about an average unit of local self-government, which Mrs. Cikotic said on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, for example, that it is not, and listed units of local self-government such as Orahovica, Sisak, Požega that they have been reduced. It is not true because now Orahovica, Sisak and Pozega are at 39% of the subsidy, but compared to previous laws at 4 years. When these 39% are now multiplied by 5 years, then residents of these units of local self-government have the same amount of subsidies with these changes of the law with what was priority and established when the original, first basic law was passed, so for residents and users in those units of local self-government in which the subsidy was 39%, they are approximately at the same level today by amending the laws as they were and when the law itself was passed. So, of course, we should support the adoption of this law, he was, as I said, primarily aimed at improving the state of construction in the Republic of Croatia because we are aware of the fact that before the crisis in Croatian construction was employed somewhere around 140,000 employees, after the crisis in 2014 and '15. the years when we started to emerge from the crisis, only 90,000 construction workers were employed in the sector, so this data that I mentioned earlier, which is that the volume of construction works in Croatia is growing at an annual rate of 6.8% speaks enough about how construction in Croatia is being restored, to repair the situation in construction, and to witness the lack of employees, that is correct. But I believe that with a number of measures implemented by the Croatian Government, if you want one of these measures and this one, it will certainly contribute to improving the situation in the construction sector. So we support at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community the adoption of this law, we believe that this is one of the quality measures that will primarily help young people in Croatia to resolve their housing issue. More importantly, it is very important that this time, with this amendment of the law, we have found that the law will be implemented these and two more years, so for a total of three years, which allows young families to come to the realization and exit of loans based on this law, because the fact is that already knowing that this law will be passed, many young families in Croatia are waiting for legislation to be passed so that they can make a public call in September of the month when the APN can make this public call. What would be better for me, and I noticed that when I proposed the law myself, and I know that from the testimony of a number of young families, it would be good for the law to come into force immediately after the adoption of the state budget so that the issue of the loan could be resolved continuously over the year, rather than waiting, for example, for a public call that takes place in September. At that time it is not possible and it is much harder to solve and find an apartment when you have to find it at a certain time because the sellers want to get that money right away, and not wait for this law to be realized that the buyer of the apartment is a credit under this law and only then make a payment to the individual seller. So it would be better if this period of realisation of the law would last a little longer because it would facilitate the position of young families who are now waiting for this law to enter into the realisation of the purchase of the apartment because I really speak 14% of the assets of the credit when the state subsidises is not a small amount and it is perfectly logical that young people expect them to enter into this system so that they can resolve their housing issue more easily. So the HDZ Representatives Club will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88213	Thank you. Now it's Mr Branko Hrg's turn in front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Vice President with an associate. Our club will support the motion for these changes. We believe that any change in the law that is directed personally towards man at this time and enables people to create some better living conditions or life deserves support and should be supported. Of course we can always talk about how it could have been more, that it could have been bigger percentages, that I can't know what else to do it is always like that, you can always talk about it, but I think these changes have been an improvement compared to the previous ones even the previous ones weren't bad. What we would particularly like to highlight on behalf of the club on this proposal for amending the Loan Subsidisation Act is a good provision that it has a three-year continuity and, as counterpart Bacic just said earlier, that it can be planned longer term. The second thing that is very important and often spoken in this assembly is this disproportionate in the development of Croatia in different parts and it is good to look at the index of development and that it is gradually coordinated in this part of the subsidies to stimulate and encourage more and greater amounts of landscapes and people living in areas that are less populated, which are exposed to even greater problems of eviction and departure of people from these parts. I'm going to point out here and one more moment, and that's a special benefit for people with disabilities with damages over 50%, and I think it's the same thing as a provision that's extremely important and important, and I congratulate you on that provision. What is important to highlight and, as already said here, as the proposer himself said in the opening part, this is only one of a series of one set of laws and measures proposed by the Government to the Croatian Parliament regarding the improvement of the standard of living, related to all of those elements of demographic renewal, the reduction of emigration and everything else, therefore one small, small segment. What needs to be monitored and what is necessary for the implementation of this law, for its better use and the use of the funds offered in this subsidy law are salaries, this part does not, of course, apply directly to this ministry, but in any case, it is directly linked because only if people have higher salaries, if they will earn more credit, will be more secure and will certainly benefit more from the benefits and opportunities of this law. That is why it is really very important in this package of all these laws to go according to laws that will allow people to get higher wages. When we were just discussing the Law of Encouragement, I was talking back then, and I'm going to repeat one thought again today, one idea. I think we should seriously consider subsidizing the building of apartments to private entrepreneurs for the purpose of renting, renting. In addition to what the state is doing through encouraging housing in cooperation with local self-government, I think it is further necessary to stimulate and encourage entrepreneurs to go to build apartments that will at least in most of the built-up building that is being rented and where local self-government can also be included with certain subsidized rents in those apartments and thus encourage the construction operation, encourage the investment cycle and everything that follows. In this law and in addition to this law, given this development index, we must remember the Law on the financing of local self-government that entered into force in 1.1 this year and realize that the units of local self-government have passed well in this Act, that they have been significantly increased in revenue and that they too can be included in the additional help of addressing housing issues especially young people with this Act and what the state is doing. If it all worked out together and made one real program, then there could certainly be another set of activities to add and create a whole package that would allow people to solve their housing issues, but I repeat this is about buying apartments, buying houses, building houses. Certainly not distracted by the need for labour mobility in the Republic of Croatia, the possibility of providing young people with this condition that if they want to change the place of life in the Republic of Croatia because of work, to allow them not to have a stone around their necks but to have the possibility of getting into a favourable apartment, a good apartment in another place so that they can migrate between cities in the Republic of Croatia and not only to cities outside the Republic of Croatia. Here, with these few thoughts and thoughts we support the proposal to amend this Law, we think that you have made a good proposal and that it is one of those stones that creates one whole set of better laws for Croatian citizens and what is most important, I repeat, every law that is directed towards man, to help man is acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88215	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Boris Lalovac's turn in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans with the final proposal of the Law. Here my fellow predecessors actually said how many states through different legal solutions are trying to encourage and resolve housing issues. So when it actually comes down a little bit, it does some sort of analysis, it shows that there are a number of laws, it's about the law on fostered housing, then the House Rental Act, the Subsidisation Act today, this House Loan Subsidisation Act, so you have the Consumer Credit Act, then you have incentives through residential savings, etc., etc. It's really one package of laws that you see when you see it, there must be 5-6 that are certainly affecting housing policy and that have certainly affected certain housing issues. We also remember those conversions in the Swiss franc where there were also over 60,000 housing units, nearly 200,000 families who solved their housing issue which was influenced by currency risk, so the resolution of RBA loans to those from cooperatives, etc., etc. So the state has been trying to solve certain problems that arise in housing policy through a different legislative regulation, and so today, since certain surpluses of money are in the budget, so the government has decided to continue to encourage the resolution of the housing issue although some of the analyses that come from the world bank or other international institutions that show that with Romania, Croatia is one of the rare countries in the world that has over, Croatian citizens have over 90% of the property and that this is exactly one of the obstacles and mobility to work, and that tomorrow it can be one of the problems if they are, and we see that the EU's analysis and pressures from year to year to introduce a certain property tax that will have to replace that part of the communal compensation, because if we have to go to labour discharge, and we see that it is said to spread income tax, and perhaps in the future and some kind of tax on real estate that will have to replace that part of health or a very difficult contribution here. However, the contributions to employment as one of the forms of replacement income to the local community will certainly be in the future if there is any further redundancy of work to be made, as some form of substitute income for local communities will be a security tax on real estate, and it will be seen, regardless of what government was, this or some next in the future, will have to deal with this issue because if we see how much work we have, and our work is no matter what the EU has given in our incomes, we see that somewhere around 50-60% is burdened by our work and that you from our salary of about ten thousand kunas when we take some average of some engineers or some medium layer, that they give sure 5-6 thousand kuna per month for their taxes on their work, and when you see that, in fact, for housing policy or 80 or certain or up to 100 kunas, a certain person who lives in which unit, we see that the burden of tax on property will have to be lower, that there will have to be paid by means of greater money, and more money, so that we will have to the more money. Unfortunately, these are some necessary things that are very pleasant to say, say, to be popular. However, this is what according to all projections when you see a state budget or... on certain projections to achieve economic growth or to remove the perspective of potential economic growth rates that someone will have to talk about in the future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to this law, we see that, although the government has projected about 1,000 requests somewhere, there have been about 2300 requests and that the minister himself has said that there have been certain rebalancings, or increases, somewhere around 7 million kunas, and that these certain projections have been somewhat more than originally planned. And that's why I was, I'm saying, and it's unclear why it's back in this law, and you can see that the greater demand is again talking about those 1,000 loans when you know it's going to apply to three years and now it's expanding from four to five years, why are they still leaving you? And you know it won't be enough amounts to encourage this program. I also said that this measure in some three-year, four-year period would cost about 300 million kuna, which is why, since the government itself, in the context of this law, stated that this existing law failed to encourage a larger and construction operation, i.e. in those places that, according to the index of development in the Republic of Croatia, are developing at lower levels, that it was not able to be encouraged and in fact recognised by the Government itself that when the first law was passed, so many requirements were, i.e. the largest part of the demands and approved, in fact the most from Zagreb, about 66%, or in the 7th group somewhere around 11%, or when you see around 130 million kuna, some 100 million kuna, in fact the most developed parts of Croatia concerned the promotion of housing issues for young people in developed parts of Croatia, and therefore I understand the government's intention to try this part of the development index, namely that, according to some percentages of Croatia, should be encourageds of these areas, and therefore, in terms, that we should be encourageds and that we should be able to the economical ones. What would be good to see is, we have seen that in the last year, the last 2 years, now given by this law, there has been an increase in real estate prices in Croatia, especially in Zagreb, and it would be good to see if there is a causal link between this law and the rise in real estate prices in Zagreb and in other parts of Croatia, which means that, ultimately, once again, the price of real estate will be converted to the end-user and that a certain question of that effect is now being raised, if... Strong growth, we see up to 15% again the real estate market, so it's good that the builders are working, but I wasn't a supporter, and we know what happened to us in the past when the real estate prices grew so strongly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this balloon gets high again, it's speculating again, and it's not good to speculate when someone wants to solve their particular housing issue, that the market isn't deep enough, or it's so shallow that one legal measure can affect property prices 120 to 15%, that perhaps the government should limit such a high price increase because we know that in the future, or what happened to us? That it will be re-or over to citizens who will pay through more expensive loans, and ultimately to the inability to pay off those loans. It was last said here whether, as far as transparency is concerned, I am sorry that perhaps the minister said it and I commend it in his opening statement, but it might be good to stay and write it down because one day someone will read these explanations of all that, so I have to admit that there was always a problem with the arguments of some laws when they are passed, that what you said was what you said was known to be a certain average interest rate of about 3.75% that banks offered 3% to 3.5%. Then let's see how many of these loans were granted in kunas, on the other hand, what we wanted and discussed to encourage Croatian kuna as a national currency and that, in fact, when the state is subsidized, we know that the state gets revenues in kunas, that it should actually be the kuna as a currency asset, that on the other hand, one part of the money does not go out of the budget, that it does not go to exchange rates and that it is actually encouraged, so I would like to see that information if the minister how much credit is granted in Croatian kunas? And then if these are interest rates of about 3% let's say up to 3.5% in Croatian kunas, then we can say that this is about one more favourable housing loan in the Republic of Croatia and that the right measure is done. We are now witnessing the fact that the general drop in interest rates in the Republic of Croatia, not only because of the decline in the source of financing at banks and that this series of low interest rates, why do banks offer interest rates so low? Because there are simply interest rates on the market about 3 to 4%, 3.5 to 4%, so it was certainly a good thing that the banks were after, because I asked the minister, that after pointing out this measure that the bank subsidized you for 4 to 5 years the interest rate, the state of the subsidisation, that the banks did not then come up with an increase in interest rates. You said that everyone negotiated it individually, but it would not be good if now the country had four, five years of subsidized and interest rates, we entered that programme and we saw that they were announcing themselves according to the CNB, that the low interest rates should be completed and then that after three, four years, those interest rates would become strongly increased on the market again, and then you no longer have that and the currency risk here as Mr. Lovrinović said, you have again and the interest risk, and so that again tomorrow the state has to regulate the resolution of these housing issues. So it would be good if such measures were already being taken and given incentives and certain public money, that in this part and business banks, at least those who have granted such favourable conditions and low interest rates are actually kept until the deadline of payment, i.e. that there is no change after 3-4 years because I see that they have already announced that interest rates will increase. Also, what is the paper in these amendments to the law, these are the extension of deadlines from 4 to 5 years, and the deadline for subsidising credit for each newborn child is extended. There were speeches here, and I think it would be the same good measure to actually take not only new children born but we certainly have families that have two, three or four or more children, and that this is also good for them if it were considered that one form of subsidy for how many children the whole family actually has, so I see that you didn't think about it right now. However, I certainly think that would have an even better effect, and not only to look at newborn children, because already families now having certain housing problems and having, I say, three, four and more children to help them with this, and I think that even then there would be even more demands and that this measure would be even more effective and here we certainly welcome for this part where a certain part of the subsidy is added for persons who have certain disabilities as a certain part of the subsidy. In principle, the SDP club supports resolving and encouraging young people to stay in the Republic of Croatia and, as certain measures, any measure that, in these present conditions where people are mass leaving the Republic of Croatia will come in handy. However, the question is whether more of these measures that the Government is trying and which will cost, as we have said about 300 million kunas plus these other many measures, I think that if several billion kunas were taken out of the budget today and all of these laws on fostered housing and subsidies to certain tenants and through these many other incentives, I think that there are several billion kunas and now the question is whether this is more than enough to solve this burning problem and whether the government might, in addition to encouraging and obtaining certain ownership, should be even more serious about renting apartments because, as they have shown, in fact, a more developed economy due to labour market mobility, has also shown its positive effects in addressing certain economic problems, or less impact when the cost of real estate comes to a lesser impact on certain tax policies, if there is a provision tax. So these people are less affected by that particular and the recession are less affected and because of that, somewhere I read that in Switzerland, actually, everything is somewhere around 30% of the apartments are owned. So for now we support this part and I hope that these measures will have... effects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88217	Thank you, too. And now in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mrs. Puh will first speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88218	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Now, today we're discussing the House Loan Subsidisation Act again, and I have to say that this debate actually started in the morning, and I was pretty shocked and appalled with certain facts that I heard from our fellow MPs. What I would like first to point out and point out, which is that last year when the Law was passed, it was intended only for last year and for once to mean, our younger citizens have the opportunity to apply to these loans. With these amendments to the law that we have on the agenda today, we allow all of our younger citizens to continue to plan their future, so that they can plan their housing. One such measure may not seem to be possible for some to solve absolutely the whole world, but trust me, a young person who wants to start a family, who wants to be left alone, such a measure is very helpful and is actually very much easier for her future and for her further life. In the last year, 2320 people took advantage of the measures under this Law and showed a very high interest. What makes me particularly happy is the 200 babies that he gave birth to in those families. So these families have been given the opportunity and have extended their loans for another two years per baby, which I certainly believe will facilitate their future and family planning in the future. What I definitely heard today was a lot of talk about it, and there was an index of development and many, as many as I had the opportunity to hear, are against subsidising loans to the development index. I'm definitely in favour of co-financed by the development index. Now that we're looking at changes to this law, four years of credit have been subsidized so far, it's now increasing to five years. So those who will be in the 8th group, so in the most developed group will actually make up for all of this through this one year, and there will be an opportunity, let's say, in my Krapina-Zagorian County. We are a county that is gravitating towards Zagreb, which is very close to Zagreb and in which, in fact, if everyone is equally subsidized by credit wars, I believe that the good majority of the family would actually decide, it might be more comfortable for them to buy an apartment in Zagreb and move to Zagreb. For this very reason, I definitely support the percentages according to the development index because then definitely the family that lives in Desinić, which is less than an hour from Zagreb, will surely decide to stay in its municipality, will decide to start their family and build a future in its region of living. We're all talking about moving young people, talking about moving young people out of the Republic of Croatia. Who ever mentioned moving young people from rural areas to urban areas? Are we going to have one desert country that will actually only have residents of about 5, 6 larger cities? Will Croatia be based on Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka? I think that these measures that are small steps are going towards keeping people in rural areas, we are going towards people deciding to start families in rural areas and therefore live behind it from working in rural areas or through the OPG or through some other possibilities that are definitely going to open up to them. We're talking demographics, everyone's talking about demographics, but let's face it. Today, what is happening, to prevent this, is that we should have started thinking about it 10 years ago and we should have taken steps to prevent our young from leaving Croatia. We entered the EU, the borders were open, everyone actually knew that there would be one market and that young people would look for opportunities. What we need to ensure is that young people after they leave, what they experience, what gets a new experience to return to Croatia and that those experiences they have gained in the EU and other cities are actually used for the well-being of our Republic itself. This law is one of the laws that makes it possible. What I'd like to remind you of, is that every time we all talk about whatever law we're discussing here, and whenever I've discussed any law that has demographics in it in the Croatian Parliament, every time it's said no new thing, it's just small things, it's cosmetic changes. We changed the Law on maternity and parental benefits, we changed the Law on Child Compensation, we had a tax reform that increased the relief for children. We now have a law that allows young people to come to a housing solution to their future. So we can't have one law that will absolutely as a magic wand solve the issue of demographicism and solve the issue of youth in Croatia, but we can have a mosaic of different laws we work on and deal with. These are just some of the laws that I have now cited, and definitely this Credit Subsidisation Act is very good for me, and especially that it is viewed by groups of development because I hope that more families will choose to live in my Zagorje and that more families will conclude that they are more comfortable to live on the green banks where they will immediately have more co-financing of credit wars than to go to Zagreb and live in an urban jungle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88219	Mr Batinic will now continue in the second part of the exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88220	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. As for what my colleague Puh was saying, why did I report for the debate? First of all, because some, not only chase concepts, but obviously some have missed the whole subject. The Deputy Prime Minister of Construction himself said very clearly that it was one of a set of laws in charge of him as vice-president of the government, which will help demographic restoration. The subsidisation of the loan is one of the measures, the POS building, of course, that the ministry cannot in itself resolve POS housing issues. There is of course what is extremely important and without whose support and support cannot be done, they are units of local self-government. In a package of government measures, as I recall from the report, somewhere over nine billion kuna is a difficult package of government measures related to demographic recovery, an increase in maternity benefits, and we recently had a law extending the number of children's allowances. We're talking about subsidizing a two-way course. When you look at the latest measures of rural development, more or less on the last programmes that have been verified and the projects that have passed and the trends that have been, and are currently going and is a demographic measure, you will favour the construction of kindergartens, especially in those environments where they are not there. So I ask you where else? I didn't hear any concrete suggestions, did you through the debate, did you at the criticism, what else? What else? I'm going to ask a question to all of us, some of us haven't been sitting here in Parliament, and what have the governments, the previous governments, been doing in the last 20 and a few years? Now suddenly this topic has been updated. I'd just like to remind you, a set of measures and we're aware of the fact that they won't get results overnight, these are certain trends, certain indicators may be, the question is a sample. We also had a report on the Committee on Regional Development and here is also a reflection, i.e. I would say the results of the Island Law. How many years this law has been implemented, i.e. life is completely subsidized on islands, and I think it's about 15 years, and then there are certain positive trends and demographics, so we need to be aware of the reality, we need to be aware of the situation. The question is, why are the young people leaving? Well, probably when they look at this Parliament, I don't think of myself and many colleagues who are more than correct, but certain colleagues and colleagues, what kind of messages they articulate, what kind of policy they represent or politics because it's politics first of all, and not politics, politics is the direction, which I want, which I think we should, rather than collecting cheap points. Why do young people leave Croatia? Well, probably for a number of reasons, I haven't heard a single condescending answer here. They're leaving for better pay, we know that. They're leaving because they didn't have an adequate paying job here, and that's true. They're leaving because they think they're getting better somewhere else. Are they better? I don't know. What I can talk about and what I can talk about is that many companies, I speak from the north of Croatia where I have data, many companies, of course, and employees work outside on better pay jobs. But do they live like in Croatia? No, I don't. My colleagues and colleagues, I believe that the vast majority, the vast majority of them are already looking, already wanting to come back, is looking for a way to come back because even for a smaller salary here, it's nicer in Croatia than it is, and it's up to us both in the government and governments to create assumptions when they come back for a permanent, not occasionally, when they no longer need to go out to have kindergartens, that they can solve the housing issue, that they can start a family. The HNS Club will support this law and I believe that it will be the same as it will result in positive trends as this previous one and that there will be more demands than there have been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88221	Thank you, too. We're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Domagoj Mikulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88222	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The law on subsidising housing loans came into force in July last year is certainly widely accepted by the entire public, mostly young people of 2321 who requested and received subsidies. This year, we have before us a law with the same intention, but a few amended conditions and provisions and this law as the one adopted last year is necessary and high quality for reasons of the need to provide living space for young people. It is certainly good to adopt measures that encourage young people to stay and build lives here in Croatia, which reduce certain living costs at the start of building their own life. Every few times we are bombarded with statistics that the percentage of young people up to 30 and over is increased given the number of those who live with their parents, and many are the reasons why, perhaps the greatest reason is that the simple financial situation does not allow them to move ahead and start their own lives. In this regard, it is desirable and positive that the state gives young people a concrete multi-annual financial incentive, and this is definitely seen in this bill. However, I would like to point out that the provisions which differ from last year's law in some way depriving certain parts of Croatia or some of its citizens. In fact, for the division of eight groups that determine the percentage of subsidisation, the development index was used as a criterion although its initial purpose was not such that it was used as a criterion for the determination of subsidized housing credits because in certain situations it led to significant disproportionateness in relation to the real situation on the ground. Although I'm aware we don't have another mechanism on which we can categorize. With one concrete example that I have in Slavonia or Osijek from which I come, the difference in the subsidy between Zagreb is only 3% which shows that disproportionateness mentioned. I personally believe that young people wherever they are in Croatia have difficulty in ensuring their housing, and I think they should be equally encouraged to stay in a place where they want to build their own life. Literally from your announcement of amendments to the law, I get questions every day when it will go, whether it will be by the end of the year, whether these provisions will be returned to the old ones etc., and in part I agree with all those who have sent me this inquiry because I believe that the development of certain municipalities and cities is not a guarantee that these individuals who live there are ultimately users of these loans at the rank of their cities or municipalities. So here is also the way in the name of many young people who are really looking forward to this new competition that I have in some way the obligation to convey their desire to reconsider a different model of the calculation of the subsidy level. But as I said at the outset, the measure, or law itself, is written with a justifiable intention and certainly it is necessary to support any measure that will encourage young people to stay here in the Republic of Croatia. We are definitely in favour of the subsidy being raised by one year, which extends 50% to applicants and members of the household of persons with physical impairment by one year. I would also like to commend the raise of the 2020 deadline, and the fact that last year, when we were discussing the original law, we predicted about a thousand users of the measure, at the end of them 2300 even through a glass of conditions, requested and received this form of subsidy, which tells us that the law is really good and that young people recognize it as an incentive and opportunity to build their life here in our beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88223	Thank you, too. Mr. Ante Bacic, if he wants to chair. We're crossing the line now, Mr. Ante Bacic. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.52 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mikulić, here is a lot of mention in your discussion of the development index as the main criterion for the amount of subsidy itself under this law. We should definitely stress, of course, that the law is good, that as a demographic measure, it is a great step. But we must definitely note, and here I agree with you that as far as young families are concerned, we cannot look at the criteria where they are, where they want to achieve their roof over their heads, was Osijek or Split, but it has been a good shift since last year which was, these changes for this year, but we must warn the ministry to consider next year whether to introduce some new criterion for all to remain 50% and possibly for some rural areas and where we want to encourage more settlement to increase that subsidisation rate. But I repeat what I did and in the opening statement in the replica we only look at Split. It's impossible to rent, it's impossible to buy, we have to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88226	Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88227	I thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bačić, here's what I can say is that I hope this increase of one year will make up for that difference in certain municipalities and cities where the subsidy to this proposal will be reduced. You in Split also have another problem and this is an extremely high price for apartments and I think that today or tomorrow we will discuss the Law on POS dwellings that will certainly be a more acceptable option for you in Split. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88228	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović is now, now having an individual debate. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Vlaho Orepic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88229	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law is one of those that deals with distribution or does not create conditions for the realization of any new added value. So we'll share what we have, or what we don't have. I am convinced that we need a new policy that advocates politics, to replace this policy of sharing with the policy of creation, not to replace policy with policy of order. I'll explain to you why I'm saying order and not order. And that politics, let's start using a policy that respects the natural process. Let's make some money, or work first and make some money and then spend it. Until we return to these relations, we will not be able to live my people; we owe both to God and the people. Participants in this subsidy, who are they? In charge of the state and people in need whose emotions and needs are being misused. Why? To populism. Short and clear. The consequences of this law are completely unclear, and we don't know how this law will affect our reality. Here are a few simple questions, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. How many plasmas do you expect? What are the profiles of people who are potential users? How realistic is it that potential users have a lasting ability to participate in this and such relationship as is expected of them, this subsidy? How fair is the state in this procedure in this way? We have a situation that those who can't do anything, this way can't do anything anymore. Do these 8 categories of you that have relied on how you say the development index is actually 8 real and only real injustices? You'll see that practice will show that it is. Do you have absolutely any numbers that argue if nothing at all hastensities, or the need for haste to pass this law? We have no right to pass by haste procedures of laws for which no conditions have been created. For the adoption of the law by the haste procedure of this, there are absolutely no conditions created and that the conditions are created you should prove this to the previous impact assessment of this law, the numbers, and not me, I think that's going to be good. Please, I have no intention of doing this to anyone but I want to say finally let's change the practice in this House of Commons. The law further does not result in any concrete housing policy that has continuity. It is only certain that this law owes a further state and that no impact assessment has been made to indicate the urgency of the adoption process, that is only for sure. So the content of this law has no argument in a concrete impact assessment, that's the conclusion that we can all make together, or you haven't shown it. If it is not the result of clear housing policy, if there is no previous, i.e. No concrete impact assessment, but only technology, the realization of any consumption of this law does not have the formal conditions to be adopted by haste procedure. I ask you all together to reconsider the procedure for the adoption of this law at all. On the contrary, the procedure for the adoption of this law indicates the abuse of this High House, which is literally used to verify some and someone's non-institutional policies, for which it is not clearly established whether it is in the context of public interest at all. If somehow it's a non-institutional policy within the framework of public interest, why not? And that's good. But we don't have the numbers, let's finally talk about concrete indicators. I must also point out the Constitutional Court's conclusions, the process of passing ad hoc law-making, that's a phenomenon that worries, which has become almost a rule rather than an exception. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court says, beware, that the procedure violates the very essence of parliamentaryism, which I recently said in this High House, haste procedure. We don't need to rush procedures. Also, such a principle of work does not enjoy citizens' trust which is important and at the same time undermines their trust in democratic institutions, that is, the fact. Finally, many laws passed did not have the conditions to adopt an emergency procedure, and neither did this one, a fact. The mistrust of citizens in state institutions is one of the reasons why our people are leaving is it? And this law, through its procedure of passing, feeds on the suspicion that someone is being favored and covers the most disturbing emotions that arise from the departure of our citizens, we hide this emotion by people who are in need, who are leaving our homeland, leaving their own home, and under some sort of ambience of emotion, we justify the adoption of laws by emergency procedure. We don't have the need for that, nor do we have the right to do that. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, neither you nor anyone in this country has the right to be superficial in making decisions or doing their job. You have no right to trespass on the state unfounded, no one has the right to do so anymore. You have no right to hope unargumented to anyone. I suggest you withdraw this law from this unfounded emergency procedure. We give it up in public debate, allow long enough public debate and professional and interested public, we draw expensive conclusions. We objectively assess these effects and then present with these effects to all those who decide on this, and to all other future laws, it is not at all important now in the final content of this law, who decide, to decide on the basis of clear facts and thus to make the right decisions in relation to our own, responsible decisions in relation to the budget and the correct ones in relation to our citizens. So it's particularly degutant, I'm going to use that word, it might be a little difficult, but it's an argument that it contributes, that this is a good demographic measure, let's not play with that citizens emotion. We can't have this law that's unverified, which we didn't just add up the numbers, we didn't evaluate the effects and say they had that effect. We have to be responsible. At the end of all of us colleagues and colleagues, I won't owe, I call, let's break up with the practice of irresponsible law-making and regulations, this is the 23rd or 4th law only in this year that we passed without any impact assessment in this high house, we are amazing, we don't even know what we're doing to ourselves or the people who chose us. Let's stop this practice. Let's go back to the procedure for the people, let the interested professional public say so in the end if he says this is a super law, then it's a super law, but we'll vote him in the community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88230	Thank you, too. You have four replicas. The first replica of Mr. Squibble.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88231	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Orepić, you said that no quality impact assessment has been made for this law, and I also believe that no quality impact assessment has been made in the interests of Croatian citizens, but who will have good effects and benefits from this law, that is exactly where you were saying that someone is comfortable here. I believe that it is suitable for banks that are in foreign ownership of 99%, because banks will earn certain fixed amounts from the state budget under this law and the deficit is created in favour of foreign banks, and Croatian citizens and young families will be just certain co-loans and co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88232	Mr. Orepic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88233	You're right. So we simply need a new policy, a policy that will be based on a start to uphold the law, the rules of the game that we have brought ourselves. Well, my people don't respect the rules of the game we brought ourselves. We have no right and no one has the right, nor do you, Vice-President of the Government, may forcefully push through the adoption of this law, but you have no right to bring it to an emergency procedure, show that you are in line with the responsibility that comes from the moment our country is at, let's assess the effects, let's say these are such effects, thus helping our citizens and subdue this non-institutional policy to public policy. It is not harmful if it is in a positive correlation with the public interest, with the interest of the people. If she has the interest of the people, and this is what is happening here in the Parliament, we are literally serving to verify what someone has decided in a bar or restaurant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88234	Thank you, too. Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88235	Dear colleague, here we bring the House Subsidisation Act, and in fact the debate has turned into a debate about the demographic policy that Croatia does not have. So Croatia has not yet adopted this strategic document, a document that will create preconditions for demographic renewal. Then let's do the verse. We have some laws, here's a fellow Scybola said nicely, is there the biggest benefit, will the largest benefit there pull out banks or just the young people they're talking about? And I would dare say here that in our country, it's actually not so bad. Here we hear from the Prime Minister when he compares us to Africa that it's actually great, so why do we even do apartments, or subsidize something like that when compared to Nigeria or I don't know which country of Africa is very good in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88236	Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88237	Dear colleague Zekanovic. Yes, we don't have a stable policy, we pass a law that regulates, that is to say, and defines some kind of relationship in terms of housing, the housing of our citizens, we don't have a demographic policy, and this same law that stems from the lack of politics, any kind of policy, justice by demographic policy, right, demographic measures. Please, this isn't any demagogy or political romance, but it's just that we're going back to the procedure that we've prescribed ourselves. Let's respect that, and we'll certainly be 30% better. Then I guess we'll start thinking about what we're saying, and we'll be bound to do something and read it. In this way, it is unacceptable to repeat this home, misused for verification outside of institutional policy. Let's stop this practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88238	Thank you, too. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88239	Mr. Vice President. Comrade Orepić, you have to complain that this law is adopted by emergency procedure, why and how. I think if it were any other law, I'd agree with you. But this is a very short, clear, operational law that, if any law needs to pass an emergency procedure, it's this one. And very clearly and analysis and efficiency and all the measures we've achieved, we brought it in last year. These are only changes and additions that benefit the citizens now. The effect we know, 2235 approved requests, 200 children per year who are from these families that have provided home in this way, percentage by all indices, percentage where this right of housing was used, we know by county where, in which cities. So we have all the data. And let's argue that we're having a hard time making decisions, that the slowness of the administration is. This is exactly the kind of operational fast laws we need to go through emergency procedures. I don't know what the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88240	Thank you, too. Mr. Orepic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88241	Operational, fast law. Passing an operational, fast law is not a fast procedure. It's not because there's no basis. My people, you can't go to football with a goal. Remember, that's the rules of the game. Let's follow the rules of the game we brought ourselves, there's no problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88242	After the Maradona World Cup. Mrs. Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88243	Thank you. Your Honor, you said this was the right law. It is suitable for young families to be paid at age 4 for 5. This is only a supplement or amendment to the parent law that we adopted last year, under which 2300 families gained over their heads, in which new works were born. You mentioned emotions. I just want to thank this opportunity to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the minister who passed this Law and who caused the happiness of these young families and young babies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88244	Thank you, too. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88245	All the positive effects of this Law, or Law, that has been passed so far, I welcome. But it's inadmissible, I repeat, we're passing laws beyond the rules of the game. We don't respect our own institutions. And that's exactly what I'm stressing, the point of all I've brought out today is that. Let's respect our own institutions, there won't be any problems. We'll be 30% more efficient and useful to the citizens. This is how we open up space outside of the institutional policy that you are certainly aware of.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88246	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. The next individual debate is Mr. Marin Skibola. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88247	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary. Today on the agenda we have amendments and additions to the House Loan Subsidisation Act. Today I'm going to repeat certain things I said in the initial proposal of this law. It can be said that this new law, let's say in corrected form, offers some positive shifts. So it's not all bad. A clearer definition of the state of dwellings owned by the applicant, better defined the documentation to be adapted, before subsidising for a period of 4 years, now for a period of 5 years, depending on the development index. It can be good, and it can be bad. For example. The 7th group of the Development Index includes Osijek and now you in Osijek have the settlements Tenje and Sravaša, if I am not mistaken and in fact these settlements do not have a sewerage at all. So, they're highly underdeveloped, but they belong to the city of Osijek, and they're going to be subsidized to these loans much less than they're supposed to be. So that's where I see the deficit in that regard. On the other hand, after the adoption of this law, there is likely to be an increase in real estate prices, so that this 30 % subsidy and 35 % will be reduced for real estate prices. It's a good thing you increase years of subsidies to people with disabilities, etc. But let's get back to the point. What is the essence of the Law? In the proposal for this Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia states that the key is to promote demographic reconstruction, urban regeneration of the settlement, and to reduce the emigration of young families. These are extremely important problems that Croatian citizens face. However, I believe that these measures cannot change these problems in root and that we are only scratching on the surface, and these problems are so deep and these statistics show. So, we have over 320 thousand blocked citizens, we have over 25,000 business entities that are blocked and this Law somehow gives me the impression that it's only bringing young people into new credit relations, and you're actually in that position, and you're in some way a slave and a message that needs to come from the government of the Republic of Croatia is not a message of a valid relationship, so it's not a message of subjection to banks, but the message that the government needs to send to young people is a message of financial independence and financial freedom for young people, for young families to stay in the country and not that you're actually making them more favourable to some credit relations and the question is how this will develop after those 5 years of subsidies, especially when you're offering back loans with the currency clause, meaning in the euro, the Swiss franc, and then it's not really depending on the kuna, rather, or the deprecitation of some euro or Swiss francs and here. What's important to say? It is important to say that it is not possible to solve the debt problems of Croatian citizens only in such a way that the believers never enter into this cooperative cooperation, so the creditors must bear the burden of responsibility and the burden of the financial crisis. This law does not in any way affect the creditors but favours the credentials and favours foreign banks as I have already said, which are owned by foreign banks because this law will give rise to large fixed amounts and waits for them to question the principle of free market economy because when you intervene, but you intervened here in the state not directly for the citizens, which is justified for me, but for the state to intervene in order for private banks in some country to make fixed profits. I don't think it's patriotic, I don't think it's a patriotic policy, it's the original patriotic policy that should worry about the interests of Croatian citizens above all else and then about the interests of some foreign banks that actually, so these foreign banks here have come here in principle just to get their profits out and when it comes to bearing some responsibility, they run away and that's just it, for example. When you settle relations in Parliament, when you pass in Parliament some laws should regulate the business of these banks, then they rebel and sue you in supranational courts, sue the state, behave arrogantly, threaten, blackmail, etc. They blackmail the government, they can say listen, if you don't change that law, we won't give you new loans, we won't give you new loans to the state, and then what happens is that they sort of blackmail you into social unrest because if there's no money and the money comes only from their credit, and then we're in a position of subjection and that position is seen in this law. Lowest interest rates, e.g. interest rates in the Euro zone in France, 1.66%, in Germany 1.76%, Luxembourg, Austria, Slovakia and Belgium have average interest rates below 2% and Croatia has an average of 4.1 interest rates. So these are some indicators that we in the EU have a deep divergence, not convergence that's always propagating to us like interest rates are approaching because that's not true, you see. Greece has an average interest rate of 5.2%, Latvia has 5.55%. So with such interest rates, that state is in an inferior position, and then we wonder why it comes to Brexit. Well, you see, the EU should be a story of some equality, but if you have an interest rate of 5.2% in Greece, and in France 1.66%, then it is clear that the citizens of Greece will be more skeptical towards the euro, according to the Euro zone, and that is why we have a growth of Eurosceptic movements in the EU. So everything has a particular causal sequence. So nothing sucks how often in public she tries to show up. What's important is to say that this relationship is discriminatory, so it's discriminatory relations, if there are 5% interest rates and somewhere interest rates 1.66%, then according to European law, someone should sanction such a business because you can't give in France interest rates by 1.66% and give Croatian citizens interest rates by 4.1%, 4.2%. The great deficit of this law is also that no criteria have been established, which will be granted these 1000 loans, means "who first, his", in my opinion, it is unserious, and on the other hand it would be good instead of these measures in which foreign banks are eligible, we should set up one state, national bank, and then that national national bank is doing this thing and not that we are eligible for foreign banks. It's a bit of a policy, not always to be suited to foreign interests. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88248	You have several replicas. The first line has Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88249	Comrade Škibol, you said the key thing is that interest in the countries of Western Europe that we always look at and that are our role model, in this case up to 3 times less than in Croatia. And then again, the question is, who will benefit the most from this law? You will have some individual, I agree, we are not against it, nor am I, however, if you really wanted to help young Croatian families take care of the housing, then the government of Rh would condition that the interest on housing loans be reduced and then only contribute to housing. In this way we end up favouring the banks directly because the interest, fellow Scybola said 1%, 1.5% in Western Europe, is 4.5%. And that's the key difference, and that's where the problem lies. Furthermore, I will repeat from a moment on, economic policy, demographic policy, education is the key to demographic recovery and everything else is fire measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88250	Mr. Scibola, you have your word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88251	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic, so you've noticed. So the state could, for example, do. with those apartments, state apartments that aren't in use, which aren't in office directly prefer to give them to young families rather than to correspondence with private banks. On the other hand, these interest rates which are different are an indication that in the EU, in fact, not everyone is so equal to all conditions. As for the demographics you refer to, in Croatia we have a disaster on demographics and young people are increasingly leaving this country and then certain journalists comment on why young people leave this country. I am a young man and I talk to young people and they tell me that they simply have no perspective in Croatia and that in Croatia they cannot create family and their lives because they are disastrous economic conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88252	Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88253	... I'm glad you've commented on this law, but we need to understand one thing and you young people that everywhere there must be a responsibility. ... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] They're raising credits. They have to be responsible for whether I can repay or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But one thing we have to say is that this is the first law as far as I can remember that young people have been offered something that is for me and good, of course it can always be better if the state has the means. I think this is an excellent law and a very favourable law for those young people who work and who have responsibilities to themselves and the state. What is more, we mention the West, their interest, we know that the cheapest properties are currently in Croatia, apartment about 1000 euros, house is built for 500, 700 euros or buy, of course 4%, 3.70% of the interest, but when you look at the payment of what is the west of 2, 3, 5000 euros are apartments in the west, our young man certainly has a chance to do well in all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88254	Mr. Scibola, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88255	Thank you. Mr. Misic, so I haven't completely criticised the whole law, so I said there are positive shifts and I'm not saying this law won't help young families. What I've said is that the essence of this whole story is suspicious and that in essence of this whole story, I feel more comfortable with banks than with young families because I prefer certain other solutions to help young families. But you've noticed it well, I'm not saying everything's wrong with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88256	Thank you very much. Mr. Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Scybola, you were talking about interest rates. Now, do you know when the interest rates started to fall? Interest rates began to drop after Croatia joined the EU. 10 years ago, interest rates were not 4.5% but 6.7% on housing loans. What am I saying? So interest rates are not determined in a way that some bureaucrats in a state institution sit down and administratively determine how much interest there will be. They had that in some previous system. So they are determined by a number of market-related things related to the country's risk, credit rating and therefore interest rates are higher in Croatia than in Germany. I note that just in the term of this government, there is a higher credit rating of Croatia, which opens up space for any further reduction of interest rates so that these things are not determined in the way that someone thinks that someone is determining by signing and stamping how much interest there will be but it depends on the country's overall economic situation. Fortunately, Croatia is going for better, so we hope that the interest rates will be lower.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88258	Mr. Scibola, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88259	Mr. Sokol, I cannot fully agree with you, normal interest rates are influenced by certain and other parameters, however, it is essential to note, for example, that In Austria there are much less interest rates than in Croatia and the same are banks. So we have in Croatia many banks that are owned by Austria and these banks in Austria give loans at lower interest rates and in Croatia lend loans at higher interest rates. All of them are loud about discrimination, human rights, as regards discrimination on certain other details, but this is also one discrimination in a financial sense that deeply affects our citizens and needs to be seen, it needs to be spoken of and sought towards this convergence that is so mentioned in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88260	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the individual debate, Mr. Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88261	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am at the beginning of my debate, and I want to remind a little bit of how this law even happened, how it came into existence. So, in the 12th month around 2016, during the debate on the tax reform of this government, which was then proposed by the Government, when it was indicated in this House High on the return to taxation of the first real estate and the introduction of a 4% tax or the abolition of the tax charge to young families for the purchase of the first apartment, then it raised great dust about this home and the second day after that debate then Minister Kuščević said in the media one idea, the state would first pay half of the loans to young people who buy the apartment. Just so you remember, it was a time when the HNS was not yet in that government, when Mr. Vrdoljak was that it was the Titanic Government and that the HNS would never coalition with HDZ and you weren't even close to this story at the time, but Minister Kuščević came up with some half idea that was being worked out for some time and that it was actually a good idea for young people to pay, that the state was paying half the loans to the young families, however, as fast as it came – so fast and creamy and what I expected from these first amendments to the Law was to remove those irregularities and those things that were quickly passed in this Law. Unfortunately, however, that did not happen. With these changes all the problems of the first law remain, and all the new changes you have made introduce some additional new injustices and complicate additional things. Here, I'll tell you for an illustration, so if a young family raises an apartment loan of 100,000 euros for, say, 20 years, the first year pays 30 thousand kuna tax on the first real estate, it's already your first year of subsidies by the state gone to the wind. So the state gives itself de facto money. The war on that family is about 5,000 kuna. The state subsidized half, that's 2.5 thousand kuna. We all know that when a loan is paid, you pay the interest first, then you just start paying off the principal, which means most of the money goes directly to the banks. And that's all my colleagues used to say. The second thing, you've done total chaos and total injustice by introducing these indices of development. So, for example, that Gospić no longer has a 50% subsidy under this Law, but 36.37%, it is the best example of the injustice of this Law. So, according to the environment development index that has the greatest need just for the housing of young people will receive the smallest subsidy. You give the largest subsidy in those environments where apartments are not bought not because no one wants to live there, but because in these underdeveloped environments young people have no business. Which someone will buy with a 50% grant with a smaller loan, for less money and come live in a place in the Republic of Croatia where there's nothing to do. ... Therefore, Vice President, you can only think a little bit, Comrade Bully. [[You can't hear it.]] Here, thank you very much. [[/Intruder Radin: Mr Bulj, your colleague Djujic prays a little more quietly. She's right.]] So this is not a demographic measure or demographic policy, because if that were the case, then the government would already say such a measure when presenting the government's programme in the 10th month of 2016. However, it has come in response to certain things that this government has done unfairly to our citizens among other things. Therefore, these changes did not resolve that people who do not have a contract indefinitely cannot enter into this measure have not resolved the criteria of the system. So, again, we're going after the first one - his girlfriend. Again, it's not such a big problem, unfortunately, because we don't have so many young people who are creditworthy, so then there's always that quota uncovered until the end. So there's more room for credit than interest, and the interest is great. 2400 people last year, that's a big deal. But what is crucial is that this government has no real housing policy or demographic policy. This has been said several times today during this debate and all the things that are brought forward, are brought forward quickly, are brought over the knee and are brought without any strategy and any further plan. If you really cared about it, let's say this big problem that was made with the development index, you could have left 50% of the subsidy as it was in the first original Bill proposal, so you could say to undeveloped areas, who buys an apartment there like you raised it from 4 to 5 years old, you could say like when a young family gets a child, so there are two more years of age, you can hear who buys an apartment in an underdeveloped area, the state will subsidize his interest, or war. Now that would be a measure, not in this way you've actually cut it. People who shop in Zagreb come to Zagreb for work, which they buy in Rijeka, Osijek, in the centers of some counties, practically no one will have 50% more subsidies. And yet, once again, you subsidize the most where people don't buy apartments because they have nothing to do because there is no work and where Croatia dies and you won't go there, so I'm very interested in what number of subsidies are going to be at 50% in a year. Here, I can't wait to see that report. In an apartment of 100,000 euros, I already said, 50,000 euros goes on interest. The interest you're paying first means de facto most of the subsidy goes to banks and banks profit the most again. In the end, it's better than nothing. That's what I said when the first law was passed. So these things don't work. I expected that in these changes when a lot of things were announced would be fixed. Unfortunately, it's been complicated a lot, but I'm saying it's better than nothing. And secondly, Minister, I'd like you to answer some of the questions that have been asked to you and which were asked to you during your opening presentation, not only to answer in a way like a robot. The government supports demographic policy, the government allows housing. So sit down. So, give some of this stuff we're telling you or some of these suggestions you're going to respect, so maybe by the year on some new changes that I believe will come, and then you'll respect these remarks, and don't just tell me the government supports demographic policy and the government will allow the housing of young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88262	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zelja Lackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88263	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy Prime Minister. So, I want to look back in my presentation on what I find positive in this legislative proposal. By listening to my colleagues back a couple of debates, I have lost sight of the focus which is the subject of the debate, so it is the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, so we are now in a situation that someone has raised a loan or the intention of a loan to solve their living problem and I think that in this context we should consider the effects of this law. Today, whoever has their own home and who has their own credit will be harder to get out of our country because we have a situation where people go out to us, like, those who have good wages, good jobs, and that doesn't hold them back, but when you have your own home and your own credit, then maybe you'll stay sooner. What I think is good is that the social element was taken care of in the work of people with disabilities. I also see in this and a good economic effect that will happen through increased use and sales of apartments, and one problem that I see here is the fact that in one discriminatory relationship come those parents who have children, who are tenants, who have no settled housing issue in relation to those who will only become parents during the use of this subsidy, so for 5 years now. I think that this should have been taken into account, I don't think we have business opportunities to intervene now, since it's a quick-reading process, and it should be taken care of, because today you have families with 3, 4 children aged up to 6 years, they don't have a housing issue, this is a measure that should encourage and help them get to their apartment, and then you should put it in line with this fact that it extends by 2 years, a period of subsidisation for each newborn child. So I don't see differences in these two situations, and it should certainly, if not at 2 years old, then at least with a year's worth, so by extending the subsidisation period for those families who don't have a housing issue, this loan will solve it, and they're already parents of underage children. If this law will accidentally enter another reading or if there is no possibility of such provisions being placed inside, then we will initiate a process of adopting new legal amendments that would include these situations, and I must say that several families have addressed me that have just pointed to this problem. Otherwise, I consider such a legal solution to be good for young families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88264	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Muscle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88265	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lackovic, you mentioned in your presentation demographic development. Of course, this law has that impact and economic impact, it is certainly because this law also runs certain construction companies that will build these apartments. You also mentioned families with more children. Yeah, that's where you should think about it, and I agree with you if you could get in, who has 4, 5, 6 kids to give some more benefits, and when babies are born, they already have some things in the law. Of course this law is good, if by chance such a law had been made 10 years ago, we would have had fewer emigrations of young people today, I hope that these young people will understand and take advantage of this favor in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88266	The answer of the respected representative Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88267	So here's the clue, Mr. Micic, is going to go our amendments, I think that here the Deputy Prime Minister heard this proposal, I don't think there can be a country that will finance this bill to some mother, some stepmother, so if someone has had two or three children in the past few years, it can't come in a more unfavourable position than that family will come in the next period. Clearly, there is one element here to encourage the birth of children, but we cannot ignore the fact that this is the primary law aimed at reducing credit wars during a certain period, precisely where people resolve their housing issue, hence resolving the housing issue in the first place, and recognising all those benefits regardless of whether children were born 3, 4, 5 years before the purchase of the loan or during the use of the subsidy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88268	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is fellow Alena Preleca, but unfortunately he's not here. He's losing his right to debate. ... Now he's gone, we're going to the next item, excuse me, final colleague, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Honorable Predrag Štromar, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. There were a lot of questions from the opposition, I was asked and I was asked to give answers, but there are none of those people here who have asked some questions, and we've heard a lot of demagogy, we've heard a lot of populistism, we've heard a lot about demographic measures, and this law is one piece, one stone in the mosaic of all demographic measures implemented by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And it's a law that was great, a law where 2320 young families solved their housing issues, bought an apartment, bought a house or built a house. A law that gave birth to more than 200 children in families who use subsidies to buy an apartment, buy a house, or build a house. It's one pebble in everything the government does. First of all, as of January 1st this year, the change of the Law on the financing of local self-government units has made it possible for poorer municipalities and cities, cities and municipalities that are in the rural area to have bigger budgets, to be able to stand out more for kindergartens, for schools, for everything our people need in these parts. They are the mayors, the mayors are extremely pleased with this law, regardless of which parties they were from, and they use those funds to ensure their citizens better municipal infrastructure, better social infrastructure, and that these citizens remain in those areas. I'm sure it's one of the very large and high-quality and good demographic measures. The construction of kindergartens, measuring 7.4.1. more than 50 kindergartens is built in this way. Over 100 million were invested from the Ministry of Demography to build and build smaller kindergartens, funds are provided for extended kindergarten work. The child's allowance, not only increases the amount but increases the coverage of children who have the right to a child's allowance. Birth benefits have been increased, and in education by amending laws and reforms are in the classroom. We have provided professional education with 1 billion kunas for competence centres in all counties, all who report will receive at least one centre of competence which will create better labour, our workers who will learn better and better work and certainly have higher salaries. The scientific centres of excellence, it employs 101 young scientists, which is extremely good and good and is the future of Croatia. It is a lot of measures, and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has an amendment to this law and that there would be no change to this law there would be no subsidy for credit, no 30% or 33% or 51%. And that's why we've been going to change the law, to allow our young people to run for subsidies in September of this year so they can buy a house, buy an apartment or build a house. We're not going to withdraw like this bill was because young people expect this law, expect subsidies, and they know it could be in September. This House after the vote, after you've passed this bill, we're going to a bank tender. banks that offered interest from 3.44 to 3.75 last year when the interest market was 4.5 to 5.5% for housing loans. And this demagogue that this law will allow foreign banks to earn, and it reduces by more than 1% of their interest, and this year we expect it to be about 3%, I think pure demagogy and pure pulsism. There was no thought at all about what the real situation was on the financial market last year. Right now, to say the ratio of the euro and the kuna, 30% of the loans were in euro, and 70% of the loans were kuna. Then it's said to complicate these amendments to the law. If we're complicated by allowing young people to get subsidies, then we're complicated. If we're complicated by extending the subsidy to five years at four years, then we're complicated. If we want even development, the regional development of the Republic of Croatia by the development index which is why it is designed, then we do the same. But we're going to complicate, we're going to allow our young people to create their own home by buying an apartment, buying a house, or building a house. It's one of the strongest measures of demographics. They don't ask for anything else, they don't want anything else, they want a good job and they solve the housing issue. This government is working very hard on it. That the law was fruitful, and there were words that it was not fruitful, that it was not known whether it had an effect or not, that it was fruitful proof of the 2320 families that used the subsidy, bought an apartment, a house, or built a house. That the law is fruitful proves more than 200 children born in families who are subsidized loans. And I'm saying we're not going to step down from this law, once again, young people expect that law. I ask you to accept that law, go to the second round, go to the bank competition and go to the grant tender in early September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88270	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88271	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you've been talking here about childcare benefits, kindergartens, vocational education, and I'm not going to take it as evil because it's clear to me that you're not used to being mayor anymore so you don't know that these are not the powers of this minister's kindergarten, etc. It's what local self-government does. The same thing, me or some other resistors, and I also don't know that you've become a spokeswoman for mayors and mayors so that you know whether they're satisfied with something or not. I understand that you have not answered questions about this law again since this law is true from Minister Kusčević, and that you have only come in who is changing from the bench later on when it was necessary and that you simply do not know how to answer, and all this you have said is a bunch of demagogy. I will support this law, as I have said, not to be asked for it, because it is better than anything I have said in my debate. And the only thing you're talking about is demagogy here. And undeveloped areas will be developed by opening jobs there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88272	Thank you. The Honorable Vice President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I'm a minister here, I'm a member of the government, I'm a Deputy Prime Minister, and I'm speaking from that post about everything that has been and I'm talking about all the issues that have been and were mostly demagogue without any concrete proposal on demographic measures. And this is one real and big demographic measure. And that the mayors and mayors are building kindergartens, that's their obligation, yes, but not to get funds from this government then it's hard to build kindergartens. And if you have budgets below 1000 kuna average per capita.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88274	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Stromar, you touched your final word on educational reform and you said there was reform in schools. I would correct you and I would say that educational reform may be from September in some schools and since you chose schools, only you know it. I'll only bring up one piece of information. In 3 counties, Krapina-Zagorska, Međimurska and varazdinska. Is it quite a coincidence that where your chiefs and mayors are, all those schools have entered the pilot project? And what's it called if it's not called setting up competitions and seizing those children who live in municipalities where you are in power and punishing those children whose parents or majority of the population voted for other parties. There you went so far as to say in Kumrovec, you failed to give Kumrovec elementary school immediately, so you gave them a pilot program out of the competition, shame can be on you, it is not working, that children are divided into those living in municipalities, let's say where HNS and others are in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88276	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Vice President of the Stromar Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88277	Dear MPs, first you say there is no reform, that the reform does not enter schools and then you claim to enter schools where the HNS chiefs and mayors are. HNS is a party that is fighting for education reform, and we will do everything we can to bring reform into all schools and that this reform will pass as we have imagined it because no one else has had the courage to implement it. The reform was delayed year after year, year after year. Now that the HNS has come to decide on it, the HNS has decided and the reform is in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88278	Thank you very much. Guys, there's gonna be a chance. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88279	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 362. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club, the Alliance of Independent Lists and Alen Prelec's representative, and would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. With us is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Zeljko Uhlir, please. The first amendment is the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88280	Thank you. The proposed amendment is not accepted, as it would make it impossible to secure more resources, for less developed areas of the Republic of Croatia and thus undo the positive effects of the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88281	Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88282	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. So the whole law is based on the fact that one group is going to get an increase from the current proposal from 50 to 51% and everyone else is going to get a reduction and that should be said out loud and clear. So these amendments and additions to the law will only allow for one category of our fellow citizens to increase from 50 to 51, and for all others, a reduction, therefore, a reduction of up to 30%. I am absolutely certain, as soon as you refused the amendments, I knew you would refuse, that this amendment and the amendment of the law would be voted in this House. But there's always a day after. Every one of us has to go back to where he lives, where he lives, the chiefs have to go back to their municipalities, the mayors to their cities and I'm alive interested, when one of their fellow citizens asks them how you're voting, I could have a 50% subsidy so far, and now I'm going to have a 38% subsidy or 30% that's better for me. There's always a day after, we all go back there, so, by this amendment and by supplementing the law, only one part of the citizens is an increase by 1%, for all others it's a reduction and it's a reform and it's a step and it's called improvement. I don't call it that, and I'm asking you nicely to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88283	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. So let's go to Amendment No. Two Clubs of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88284	I thank the proposed amendment is not accepted, for the same reason, because it would undo the positive effects of these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88285	Obviously, colleague Chikotic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88286	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the promoter states that the amendments to the laws are demographic measures and the prevention of emigration, and especially from underdeveloped areas. This final bill ensures that there is no reduction for all areas of the Republic of Croatia except for one group, and according to the analysis submitted by the applicant under the law, there were only 0.3% of the demand for citizens in those areas. As counterpart Mrak Taritas said, Sinj, Virovitica, Sisak, Delnice, Gospić, Vinkovci and Požega will have 36% subsidy war. Osijek will have 33% war subsidy Zadvar and Orahovica will have 39%, and before the law changes, they all had the possibility of 50% labour subsidies. So you have reduced the rights of our citizens by this law, and Vrgorac, Petrinja, Imotski, Donji Miholjac and Bilje 42%. Well, if this is help to underdeveloped regions of the Republic of Croatia where citizens move from. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88287	Let's vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're now going to the 3rd Amendment of Agent Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88288	Thank you. The proposed amendment is not accepted because it changes the essence of these amendments and additions made in the spirit of the objectives to be achieved by this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88289	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, these two amendments are only days to protect the interests of our citizens. Actually, I'm going to point out what this is about. Article 11 speaks of the fact that the interest rate in 4 years can be up to 3.75 a year, and then it is said that after 2 years it cannot be more than 10%. And we're not saying anything that's gonna happen after those six years. If after 6 years the state thinks, or up to 6 years, protects its interests, and then the interest can be increased by banks, I do not think it is in the interest of Croatian citizens. Do we really work in the interest of Croatian citizens to protect them that this interest rate is not much higher than 3.75 all the time, and this loan can last 10, 15 or 20 years, and banks can increase these loans after 6 years. I don't know why we even hesitate. Are we going to protect the interests of the banks or are we going to protect the interests of Croatian citizens? I think that we here clearly and loudly have to protect the interests of citizens, as we protect the interests of the state because we say that in 6 years we cannot increase the interest rate, and away from those 6 years it does not matter. The banks will have the El-dorado again as they did, and we know how we solve Swiss problems for years after that and today we can't solve it. I ask you to accept this amendment in order to protect Croatian citizens, young people who enter loans without paying more than 3.75% which makes no sense. Please vote for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88290	Let us also vote on this amendment which the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing loans. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 80 for, 3 abstentions and 8 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House Loan Subsidisation Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88291	I would now propose, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Justice, the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure which proposed that a joint discussion be held on the following three points. These are: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 298; - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seats of Courts, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 300; - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 301; Do we agree to conduct a united discussion? Do you mind? There isn't. They're all in. Thank you very much. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. If no one opposes the proposal of the Justice Committee, we will then conduct a united debate and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law apply when discussing these points. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to the article... Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Honorable Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. We therefore have a whole set of laws in the area of justice and thank the Committee on Justice for the proposal to bring these first three points together, I think that is very reasonable. We therefore have before us amendments to the Law on Courts, we have before us amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council and the Law on the Area and the Seat of Courts. The basic intensities that we really want to achieve and the goals that we want to achieve are actually to create assumptions for the better work of the judiciary that these trends that are pretty good, you will see in fact from the report when it comes to the agenda of the President of the Supreme Court's work in the last year that we solve more cases every year than we receive them. And on the other hand, we want these trends to continue, but we want them to be as strong as possible and to the satisfaction of all our citizens and all those who are actually seeking certain services and are therefore addressing the judiciary to satisfy and resolve certain rights and interests. The first and primary objective, what we want with this reform and these measures, we want to bring together municipal courts and infringement courts in the Republic of Croatia because we have already detected this, said that in the context of the infringement courts, our judges are not sufficiently burdened by the number of cases, they do not have enough cases to resolve and therefore to remove this by joining municipal and criminal courts we will get one human infusion into the system and within the framework of municipal, judges of the criminal courts who will continue as judges of municipal courts their work will also be able to work on some other types of cases so that we will be able to share this burden of the number of cases more evenly. As for the new network, in this way we will actually reduce the number of courts because today we have 24 municipal courts and 22 violations, which is 46 and after this merger we will have a total of 34 courts. What is very important here to say is that we want to strengthen the institute of permanent services outside the court seat because courts have their permanent services outside the seat, but as we have seen in practice are not used in the best possible way, so citizens actually have to travel to the centre of the court to attend and attend discussions and do whatever else they need in court. As we have permanent services, we now prescribe these laws a very clear provision that says that discussions and all procedural actions related to cases relating to the area of permanent service outside the court headquarters have been carried out in a permanent service outside the court seat. Here, we really want there to be no travel, but it will be easier for us to arrange for as many days a month as it takes, how many discussions there are for a certain permanent service, for our judges to come to that area and for that service to be settled. A major change is also a new way of electing the Supreme Court president. We all know exactly what the system was like last year. We cannot boast that this was going transparently and so this year we have prescribed these changes one process and a procedure where DSV is therefore being called public. Those who want to run for that place, they apply for it, write a résumé and what's important, give their own programme, the way they see work in that place. And afterwards, this is addressed to the president, who directs the committees in charge and then proposes to the Croatian Assembly to decide on the election of the Supreme Court president. Also, the important change that we propose is the establishment of an EU Department for the Monitoring of Rights and Rights of Practices, therefore, the rulings adopted by the EU Court and the European Court of Human Rights. This is what we propose to be in all the county courts and the larger municipal courts that have more than 50 judges. This is extremely important, we are no longer lonely Croatia, we are part of the EU and we are part of that whole judicial system. The decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, decisions of course and the Court of Justice of the EU are in particular reflected in our judiciary and therefore we need to strengthen the knowledge and we need to strengthen the ability of our judges to apply the acquis at the right time, but also these decisions of the courts. We also strengthen the management of courts. So far, we've had those two institutions, secretaries and directors, and unfortunately none of them worked very well. Now we concentrate, we'll only have the Director of the Court, and this time we'll really make it easier for the President of the Court to do so in that administrative and technical part of the job, which will allow the Presidents of the Court to have such one aid because that will certainly lead to better court management. The president will be relieved of his unnecessary affairs. As far as DSV is concerned, the DSV sees itself, in fact, that very often his decisions have been making recommendations in public lately. We are not satisfied with the deadlines since the day of the call, so ad to fill certain places. These procedures are taking too long and therefore we are cutting deadlines here for DSV's conduct, we want this to go faster and therefore we have set deadlines in which it is necessary to make a appointment decision when the judges are called out, whether for promotion or for appointment. We're also changing the DSV composition. So we're introducing a slightly different schedule. There we will have in the future three judges of the county courts who will be elected on one regional principle because we want the whole of Croatia to be represented in the DSV. Until now, this has always been the case between Zagreb and Split, so I say the most was about the elections and the most people from Zagreb and Split. Here, with one choice of three judges of the county court, I think we'll have representatives from all parts of the Republic of Croatia. Also important change is, we want to change the property card system. The one that's not very transparent right now. We here propose, therefore, a system of property cards as well as other state officials, to make it public, that we have no problems here because, in practice, everything we have talked to the judges, the presidents of the courts, no one where we were on the ground has any objection and no one has any problem with that. Because judges today, in order to avoid the same confusion, judges still fill property cards today. However, they are not as publicly available as they will be if we move on to this system as it is for state officials. Also, as far as the term of office to which we appoint the presidents of the courts is concerned, we limit that to two mandates. So, we've had one way in the system so far where people have really been too long of mandates. In some ways, it seems to me that there is a little new energy, that there is a little bit of freshness, and that is why we limit the number of mandates to two. These are some of the things that we said in our first reading, and those key differences resulting from the debate and after that further debate with the interested public, that we put in the Law on Courts and the High Criminal Court because the High Criminal Court must have its place in the Law on Courts, it already exists in the Law on Criminal Procedure and we have an obligation, therefore, until 1.1.2020 to ensure the conditions and that it starts to function. But he must be included in the organisational law here and we now place him as the High Criminal Court in charge of resolving and deciding complaints against the rulings of the county courts. So the county courts are in charge of those cases where the prison sentence has been prevented for more than 12 years and compared to these transfers, the High Criminal Court will be in charge of what's different from what was defined in the Penal Procedure Act, and the difference is that we don't want to go, create a single mega court with 50, 60 judges again, and in this way would in fact significantly disrupt the kind of balance of staff that we have in the framework of county courts. So here, we're also taking over this defacto from the Criminal Procedure Act, and in this way we're going to create conditions for the functioning of the Criminal Court. We also changed the structure of the municipal court in Split compared to the first reading because we said in our first reading that we would create the Split Municipality Court 1, the Split Municipality Court 2 and the Makarska Court, where it would all be joined by the Criminal Court, but here, in a conversation with the judicial officials in the Split area, we came to leave as a model in Zagreb the specialized Municipal Infringement Court in Split, and that the rest of the Split court remains as it is, apart from creating and creating a new court in Makarska that would cover the territory of the permanent service of Imotski. In addition to other changes, we have also introduced the possibility that talks with the candidates who are on DSV that these talks for the appointment of judges and advancements, as an opportunity to be recorded, which was also highlighted in the debate as one proposal, we have accepted it, but the decision on this in technical and other operational terms will be made by the State Judicial Council. We've also provided conditions for the promotion and appointment of high courts, so far it's been 12 years of judicial training, now we're raising it, 10 years, now we're raising it to 12, we think it'll provide, bring a higher quality of trial. With these measures, which we will, of course, add to the implementation of digital technologies and all that we are doing in this sense now, we believe that we will create conditions for better judicial work and that these good trends that we have in the judiciary that we are actually making them even stronger in the next period and that indeed in the next few years we get a much more efficient and more quality judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88293	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He's the first respected representative of Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, in the draft of the law, we see the government abolishing the position of the court's secretary. We see this paper as a problem, given that the Registrar has an important role to play in ensuring the legal certainty of those businesses for which expertise is needed. The amendment of this draft law combines the functions of the Registrar and Director of the Judicial Administration and we consider this amendment illogical because the Director cannot, for example, do. Economist be responsible and in charge enough and professional for legal issues such as official relations or other contractual relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88295	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88296	Your Honor, I've already said that in my opening statement. We now have the institutional and the director and the secretary, and in fact very often we have neither, nor the other. And on the other hand, we have decided here to put these two functions together as directors, and we think that this director will be able to respond to the tasks of helping the President of the Court both in these official affairs and in these others. This is the profile of professional training and will be prescribed which can be answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88297	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88298	Thank you very much. Ministers, in your first reading you said that one of the key problems of this, the new seats of this Law on new seats and areas was essentially a system, a massive management system, that is Split and Zagreb. So you said Split 1, Split 2, a little funny, so you listened, so you realized now that you were changing something. However, the fact that the judiciary is like the cancer of the early Croatian Society, this bill of yours is centralized again, and you are introducing no changes, nor will anything new happen to the citizens, especially the Dalmatian Burn, because in Dalmatia we have no municipal court at all, you have forgotten about it, you have visited Sinj, you have taken a nice picture and the lip was on the portals, I have seen with my party colleagues and with the mayor. But it is a shame that the Dalmatian Zagora has no municipal court, and the Split-Dalmatia County as the largest county has only Split and Makarska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88299	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88300	In Sinj, there is now no status of the Municipal Court, he is a permanent service outside the seat of the court in Split. And I've been visiting really in the field, and I've talked to the judges of that court, with the heads of the station and with the representatives of the local self-government, and this is exactly what we're proposing here is actually going in this direction to strengthen the permanent service. So Sinj and all those who have permanent service will not lose anything, but these permanent services will only strengthen because in the framework of the permanent service we want citizens to meet all the needs they have. In relation to the number of cases we have in Sinj, we do not have the conditions to have a court there, but good and quality permanent service we have and all the citizens of that area within this permanent service will meet all their needs, so there is no need to raise it institutionally to a higher level because we do not have sufficient numbers of judges, we do not have enough cases and this is a solution for the benefit of citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88301	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88302	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, just in our presentation, here is now in response to the replica you mentioned just the Municipal Court in Split and in the debate in the first reading we discussed, the Municipal Court 1, 2, I am glad that this establishment was chosen by the very specialized Municipal Infringement Court, but in the meantime you landed on the ground, you saw where the Municipal Court is, that it was on... If it was quite isolated from the very center of Split, you saw where the County Court is, where there should be a new court building. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm just curious about this between the first two readings. Did you discuss it down there? The Ministry and you, how do you think you will infrastructure the problem of the Municipal Court in Split? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88303	The reply of the respected Minister Bošnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88304	We have a very clear and precise plan of how to infrastructureally solve that building in Dračevac not to cause what would be said to be elevating when someone comes to court and it's certainly not nice. We have one building there next to the County Court that's a building of Stande's former department store, we've built a building permit and we've secured the funds and that building we'll arrange and it'll be one part of the municipal court. The second part of the municipal court will also be in that square, we negotiate for buildings with HEP so that when we get them, we will arrange them, and that would then be one real square of justice in Split where the citizens of Split could meet all their needs, there would be the county court and municipal court and here the Dračevac would actually leave it because it definitely doesn't look nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88305	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, thank you. I am opening the debate and the first on behalf of the Representatives' Club Bridge of Independent Lists time will be shared by clearly first colleague Marko Sladolev, and then by colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. We have before us the Law on Courts, although the government's proposals to amend the laws that are under discussion today are not about real judicial reform. We have also heard from the prime minister and the minister of justice that when they talk about their amendments to the law, they call it the mini reform of the judiciary, so important laws to treat so superficially as they treated these changes by ruling even at the level of a more serious European country. No minimum reform will help to reverse perception or reality and drive out of justice what is not the place in the judiciary. This can be achieved by serious laws and changes, not by the cartoon we see in these laws, and by the Law on Courts, which I will really expose. Why do I use this serious word cartoons because the cosmetic changes we've been offered don't change the essence, they don't touch the problem. These changes to the laws that the government proposes create far more problems than they solve. Today, I would like to highlight some of the important issues that have been addressed by this draft Court Act. In our first reading, we made exhaustive comments on the whole law, today we will remain on some of the amendments proposed in the second reading. To begin with, we want to point out that we are against the establishment of another high court, especially since it is a controversial high criminal court, we believe that this is the result of a strong lobby in the judiciary and that this is not about any objective and evidence-based decision. Much has been said about the establishment of a high criminal court, and no quality model has ever been found, how to ensure uniform application of the law, to levelen judicial practice and to speed up proceedings in all secondary cases. The idea of a high criminal court comes mainly from the need to unify court practice, however, such a goal can be achieved in other ways than by further fragmenting the second-degree trial by establishing a high criminal court. The establishment of a high criminal court brings with it many challenges, and some of them... human resources, the establishment of accompanying infrastructure for a new judicial body, and the definition of organisational aspects, productivity and efficiency resulting from such a solution are not very different from the establishment of specialised units within the existing network of courts. The question arises, if such a priority is our problem in the criminal branch, which is with the civil one. When you compare numbers in terms of duration and number of cases, it is clear that we have a much bigger problem and a challenge in the system of secondary trial in civil cases. The only real solution to such a problem and all that is negatively related to the second stage is to unite all second-degree courts into a single network that can then respond to all the challenges and unfavourable aspects that are born for the sake of the second-degree courts' bad network. Furthermore, Article 21 states that the President of the Court is obliged to take particular care to respect the rights and protection of children in court proceedings in accordance with international standards. The question raised in this supplement in the second reading is, in which way the president will comply with this legal provision, whether the judges are obliged to inform the President of the court that the child's proceedings are being conducted. There are thousands of cases of litigation, family disputes, criminal proceedings and so on, or the office will do so at the time of the proceedings itself, what measures and actions the President of the Court will have to carry out to comply with this provision, or this is just a populist measure that has recently been introduced into the law for the purpose of a media case of enforcement over a child in Split. Will the President of the Court respond if he fails to react when a case is violated and the rights of the child are compromised? There are many open questions, and this supplement is really interesting in the second reading. For reasons of seriousness, we propose that this issue be better settled because in practice it will not be implemented since it is not clear how the president will be obliged to care for respect for the rights and protection of children, especially in the context of the independence and independence of judges in his work, as well as the protection of the rights of children who currently exist through the various roles of stakeholders at the Centre for Social Care, Court, sometimes a special guardian, doctor and psychologist. They're all involved in child protection proceedings. Does this change mean that they have all failed and that another link in that chain needs to be prescribed in the division of responsibility that will be cancelled? We believe that the problem is not that the President of the Court has so far not been obliged to worry about the rights of the child but is a problem in poor education of stakeholders and clearly poor coordination of the work of existing actors, but it is primarily a question and an infamous executive system. When we look at the video of the child’s execution, we look at our shame as well. It's a mirror and our judicial system. None of us are outside the court, we are all obliged to accept and obey the decisions of the judicial authority. However, our judicial authority is delaying the exercise of justice by its slowness and trombone, and we know that delaying justice is equal to denying it. A child’s child’s execution procedure is unruly justice, and she breaks over the back of a child. The Minister's reply to such a system is seen in such a provision. We do not find a solution in the populist measures that stand in one item such as here or that will solve the short-term segment of the whole problem. Blocked, child-absorbing, lack of enforcement over movements and similar are parts of a major problem hidden in our executive system and other processes of provisions. MOST does not intend to gain points and popularity by using the most sensitive, most vulnerable groups of citizens for these serious social and social problems to find unity and a comprehensive solution. This solution lies in thorough work, professional approach and seriousness. Our goal is to be able to create a complete reform of the executive system and we see that by ruling with all the machinery they have at their disposal they are not able to do so. However, by returning to this draft of the Law, one more article would point out. The 32nd election of the Supreme Court President. We welcome this new model since it's largely taken over from the Most draft. However, we also have criticism as it is not accepted that DSV participates in the process so that candidates are also given an opinion. Our model requires that DSV does not act as mailmen but participates in the whole process as a relevant shareholder which DSV is. It is also not accepted that if the Supreme Court president is charged with a criminal offence for which the proceedings are initiated under official duty, it will be resolved. We see that the Ministry of Justice has proposed such a solution in the DORH Law on the grounds of discharge of the duties of the Attorney General, which is commendable and we suggest that both be prescribed for the President of the Supreme Court. Although everyone is innocent until proven otherwise, in the position of the Supreme Court president, the situation is not regular, or let us try to imagine a situation in which the President of the Supreme Court is indicted against the abuse of power and position, the judges to whom the president is ordered, and as the head of the judicial authority, he would be or should be tried. Try to imagine at the time of the break for the President of the Supreme Court's lunch walk to the county court where he may be charged with the most serious crimes, and then returns to lead the judicial authority. The conditions as proposed by the DORH Act should be harmonised. In relation to the provisions relating to assessing the work of judges, we believe that an opportunity has been missed to regulate the system according to European good practices. The judicial councils in the courts should be abolished and the legal system of evaluation of judges should be put in place. By introducing a continuous evaluation of the work of judges, we will launch key changes in the system. The evaluation is then easily linked to education, progress in paid classes, progress in the system and others, and in particular prevents any unwanted influence from taking place on the process of appointment of judges. Quality and sound competition are being created, we simply believe that the government has completely failed in this segment and does not want to take advantage of the opportunity and make a change in the system. It is commendable that Minister Bosnjakovic accepted some of our proposals in the first reading. That's how it is, for example. in Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 55. accepted the MOST proposal that the judge should be obliged to perfect or participate at least once a year in education and training programmes. It is also accepted to comment on the method of deciding how to object to a decision to violate judicial ethics. Unfortunately, compared to the court advisers, we see that the minister has no courage to edit the system of judicial advisers, although in the first reading it has become a sign that the system of judicial advisers in this draft will be better arranged, the hand brake has been withdrawn and all advisers are returned to the same basket. It's about quality frames, young people who work for less than six thousand kunas. The courts should create levels of complexity of the case and assign it to the work of advisers and judges depending on the knowledge, experience and the result of the work. We believe that such provisions for counselors as we see in the second reading bring them back even deeper into the uncertainty in which they live and work for a long time. You need to create different categories with different... depending on the level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, according to the example of what he proposed in his first reading, MOST fully resolves in its laws. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88307	Thank you. The Most Representatives' Club continues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88308	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the second reading, we have a long-awaited reform of the judiciary, the cancer of Croatian society, one of the key problems of economic development, economic justice. People do not trust a ranking list of trusts in institutions because the judiciary is one of the key problems and surely needs to return faith in the judiciary and the judiciary must be in the interest of people and citizens. However, the fact that we have not worked in the interests of the citizens, but we have centralized again as the headquarters, as Minister Bosnjakovic said earlier in response to my replica, is not true that this Law is fulfilling those goals that you gave in the first reading, that big systems such as Split and Zagreb are being dispersed. The only thing you have applied is what was funny – Split I, Split II, Dalmatia's Zgora which has 150 thousand inhabitants, meaning Drnis, Knin, the whole move to Vrgorac, Sinj, many cities remain without a municipal court and a hundred miles in one direction people will have to go to courts, to litigation in the nearest courts, which is precedent. So you are centralizing the anti-demographic law, because it is certain that these judges, court workers, will have to travel to Split, that in 4 hours there will be a closed court in Sinj, any punishment that happens, is not only now that the police station will be closed in Dalmatian Zagora, but it will all be centralized in Sinj so that in 4 hours when something happens ić travels to Split and judges and police officers, therefore this is an anti-demographic measure that will be the most harmful to people because 20,000 cases that 20,000 people who come to court annually in Sinj, most will go to Split, most of them will go to Split, whether you want to admit it or not, are costs to people huge, it happens now. The center of the Dalmatian mountain is Sinj, you know it's a huge area, not to repeat, it's an area that has 50,000 inhabitants, only the Cetina landscape, not taking here and Muc, not getting there... which will have to go to Makarska or Metkovic, so you essentially deleted the Dalmatian Zagora from the map. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? I don't know, maybe it's this African concept mentioned by Prime Minister Plenkovic, because he's less and less calling for Europe, and more and more he calls for Africa. Perhaps the African concept of this judiciary towards Dalmatian Zagorje and this social component, while the judiciary is the cancer of Croatian society's early Croatian society. Secondly, now it becomes this law, you instead of decentralising and facilitating the citizens on services, you increase the costs of transporting to judges and other employees in court, and thus one institution such as the Sinjski Court in 1875 was opened by Emperor Franjo Josip, 2015, the truth Minister, sit down and here in the bench did so, we thought that in the increase the court of the Municipality of Sinj Miljanić, we considered it fair, I have here, all the mayors, the mayors of the Municipal Court in Sinj, even the mayor. So when we had an appointment they came in an hour before we agreed, so you wouldn't happen to show up, because I guess I have some leverage, we haven't seen each other, but the fact I have both records and signatures and colleagues... It's signed that for the Community Court in Sinj, which is why you don't want it, we'll see about that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88309	The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marko Šimic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88310	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us one set of three proposals, namely the final draft laws whose amendment wants to make a better and more efficient network of courts. All analyses and statistics, including the practice itself, show that a change is needed to enable more rational use of judges and official potentials, which aims to make access to courts easier for citizens. And not only that, but it's trying to achieve a whole series of other positive effects that I'm going to try to present to the representatives through this exhibition of mys, this debate on behalf of the club. The court law was passed in 2013, changed three times in total. During 2015 and 2016, some of the effects actually sought to achieve this amendment of the law is the merger of municipal and criminal courts in a way that misdemeanor courts are deleted as a special type of courts for a very simple reason. If we follow the inflow of infringement cases over the years, we will see that in 2015 and 2016, respectively, and in 2017 we have a reduced inflow of cases, which in 2016 compared to the previous one, means some 7,000, slightly more than 7,000 cases, while compared to 2016/2017. is some 13,000 or 13 300 objects. If we look at the High Violent Court of Cases and it's downgraded in the last year, I think I've seen some 34% in statistical indicators. By joining the courts of municipal and criminal courts, we will receive one more equal burden of judges and we will have one staff infusion that will indeed be welcomed by municipal courts because we noticed from the report of the President of the Supreme Court, which the President of the Supreme Court reports to the Croatian Parliament, there is a great burden on the judges of the municipalities, especially in the section of civil trial. Violent courts will continue to be organised within municipal courts through the criminal trial departments. Furthermore, what is proposed by this bill is the establishment of a High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia to decide in II. the degree of appeal against decisions of the County Courts in criminal cases. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia in 2017 was involved in the work of 1929 criminal cases II. degree, of which 1429 items were received during the year. According to the criteria for determining the number of judges, the number of judges of the county courts is determined in a way that determines 1 judge in 200 second-degree criminal cases. It follows that 10 judges with a 193 case-by-case burden are required to resolve the case to be found in the work of the High Criminal Court. Given the estimated number of judges according to all criteria, the need to employ some 20 officials in the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia is also foreseen. In addition to the merger of courts and the establishment of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia, citizens want easier access to courts through the sustainability of the permanent services of courts which may, in fact, pass through this law slightly and undetectedly because so far, permanent services have been envisaged as some sort of transitional category. This law, however, brings some kind of trial to a smaller place, leaving the public with one confidence in the system, and I, as a young person, really see it as a demographic measure. Because if you shut down all the institutions in small places, you can't expect citizens to have confidence in the system and in life in such a place, and I'm sure they'll decide to leave such places sooner. It is then proposed to limit the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court to a maximum of two mandates, with greater transparency in the implementation of the appointment procedure itself, with the defined role of the State Judicial Council in the process of appointment. The content of the annual report of the President of the Supreme Court submitted to the Croatian Parliament must then be more precisely defined. The court's appointment procedure should be speeded up, more powers should be given to the State Judicial Council in the process of appointing judges, and a number of other positive measures to improve the system of court management and to carry out judicial practice and judicial administration activities, as well as to meet the recommendations of the Report of the 4th evaluation round of the group of countries against corruption. Especially those related to the election of the President of the Supreme Court, which therefore refers to the Republic of Croatia. As for the final draft law on areas and courts, the rationalisation of the network of courts itself began in 2008 and 2009. It was continued in 2010, 2011 and 2015 and this process reduced the number of municipal courts from 108 to 24, the number of violations from 114 to 22, the number of county from 21 to 15 and the number of trades to 8 from 13 courts until then. Also in 2012, 4 administrative courts began to work. The reorganisation of 2015 introduced a significant change in the local jurisdiction of the county courts, so from 1 January 2016 each county court has jurisdiction to decide in II. Cases of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice’) [19] ECR I to the Court of Justice of the European Union [19] ECR I to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to the Court of Justice of the European Union (‘the Court of Justice of the European Union’). Based on analysis and statistical indicators, and taking into account the efficiency of the judicial network, the ultimate need for its change has also been demonstrated. The government has recognised this need and in this package measures through these three bill proposals are indeed trying to make this system more efficient. The specific data therefore show problems in certain areas, and most often these are areas of large courts. The problems are really visible in the courts in Zagreb and Split. However, for example, the proposer of these laws took the court of the river area as an example. The applicant therefore proposes the establishment of a new Municipal Court in Crikvenica. The court will be available to a number of citizens, especially citizens from the Gorski Kotar area. The court in Rijeka, especially from the area of the island of Krk and Rab, and the area of Senj and Novi Vinodolski, would be disbursed. Due to the lack of respect for the continued detention of the special structure of the infringement courts, all municipal and criminal courts in the Republic of Croatia are to be joined in a way that brings together courts based in the same city and with the existing 24 municipal courts, 10 new municipal courts are established in Crikvenica, Đakov, Kutina, Makarska, Metković, Pazina, Sesvetima, Split, Vinkovci and Zagreb, each newly established Municipal Court has between 10 and 100 judges. As far as trade courts are concerned, it is proposed to establish a new Commercial Court in Dubrovnik for a very simple and justifiable reason because this is the dislocated nature of the current permanent service in Dubrovnik, the Commercial Court of Split, whose communication is significantly difficult because of the distance and need of crossing the state border. Then, the Trade Court in Bjelovar becomes responsible for the area of Koprivnica-križevci County instead of the Trade Court in Varazdin. The reason is the unification of the workload of these two commercial courts which have so far been posted by a delegation of the case of the Commercial Court in Varazdin to the Commercial Court in Bjelovar. So in this way and in this reorganisation, we believe that it will further strengthen and improve the work of the judiciary, that there will be a number of positive changes, and primarily positive effects in repairing the dynamics in the trial. In addition to equating the workload of judges, the length of court proceedings will be accelerated, the number of pending cases in municipal courts will be reduced. The unique and complete use of all the human potentials of the courts that are being joined and the possibility of judges of the criminal courts being determined to work on other types of cases is opened. Also through the corrections of existing networks of municipal and commercial courts, citizens will have easier access to courts. There will be a reduction in the area of jurisdiction of certain municipal courts and easier management of courts due to the smaller number of locations they operate, a reduction in the total number of management functions in courts will occur. Travel costs will also be rationalised. So, although this law may at first look as a technical law or law governing the technical work of courts, so the courts' seats and areas of trial, this is one important law and it is of great importance for the legal security of our citizens and the economy in the Republic of Croatia. And as the third proposal of the final law, the Law on the State Judicial Council. So that's the law that was passed in 2010. Since then, it has been changed five times, and new amendments primarily seek to address identified shortcomings that are negatively reflected in the effectiveness of the work of the State Judicial Council, the length of the proceedings, the appointment of judges and the effectiveness of the work of the courts themselves. Generally, the main objective to achieve by amending and supplementing this law is to increase efficiency and increase transparency in the work of the Council, speed up the appointment procedures and progress of judges. The government wants to remove the fact that priority in the election of members of the Council is always achieved by judges of the largest courts because of the uneven territorial representation of judges in the Council. The intention is to introduce greater transparency in the justice property card system, as well as to specify the stricter conditions for the appointment of judges of county and high courts. Finally, in order to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, we will also support this proposal to leave out the obligation of the Minister of Justice to give an opinion on candidates for the President of the Court so that the decision of the State Judiciary Council is made more independent and thus make the justice system itself more independent. In the Club of Representatives, we believe that this reform will indeed strengthen and improve the work of the judiciary and justice in the Republic of Croatia, so as the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community in the Croatian Parliament, we will support this proposal of these three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88311	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives of the HSS on behalf of whom the respected representative Kreso Beljak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88312	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Let me say a few sentences on behalf of the House of Representatives Club which I say in advance will not support such a bill. I will return a bit to Croatian history, Croatian tradition, year 1848, which was the year when the executive power at local levels went into the hands of the so-called so-called. The mayors who would be mayors today, and from the early Middle Ages until 1848, that power was in city judges. The status of the city in any way could not have been obtained by any settlement in Croatia and had no court or judge, which I have been repeating since 1848, was the executive authority in a certain area of a specific settlement or city. When the former government started to reform in 2015, it was explained by modernising savings and all those things that were given as such, because we live in the 21st century and indeed is the problem of maintaining courts in every environment that I have been repeating since the early Middle Ages. However, what is now being done by these amendments, i.e. the new law, is the real politicisation, therefore, of 2015 was the reform that would be discussed, which would be discussed from the historical aspect, which would be discussed from the point of view of further centralisation of the state, because our country, even though it is small, with its own spatial layout, is not so small that everything could be placed in several centres. So, in my opinion, in the opinion of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS decentralisation is necessary for any progress. The judiciary as such, i.e. the existence of a municipal or whatever we call a court in a particular place, in a particular city, means retaining the city's central function, and moving the court in any way means centralization of the state. I will talk again about the importance of the even development of Croatia, i.e. the degree of centralisation of a particular society in direct co-ordination with the development of a particular society. Thus, the most developed countries are those that are also the most centralized. Croatia and this law enter into the simplest of the most centralised and, according to all indicators, as we have the opportunity to see also the most underdeveloped countries in the European Union, and most likely beyond. Well, since that is the case, when you have already decided to increase or in some way abolish that reform that was from 2015 and further politicise the whole situation, the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS will submit two amendments because there are no reasons to return the Municipal Court to the Sesvets, that you do not do the same for the western part of Zagreb County where there are more than 100,000 residents who remain without the Municipal Court in this case. So there's no reason, if you're already moving or returning to the Councils, that you don't do the same to Samobor. There is also no reason that if you return the Municipal Court to Požeg which is pure politics, and there is no other explanation not to do the same with the Municipal Court in Novi Gradišca, etc. etc. Again, if that is not the case if it is not a hundred centres of logic centers or those cities that exist in Croatia, which have been developing for centuries, then there should be at least fifty of them yours has twice as many. So, such environments have a lot, this is a step backwards, a step back to that reform that was in 2015, and yet we are still in no space, so neither have we continued this reform from 2015 nor have we gone back to some things that may have been more positive to this reform than you have done a strange, strange mix that you may call reform, which has absolutely no meaning except for further centralisation of Croatian society, which, ladies and gentlemen, leads Croatia from ruling parties where everyone sees it and where you see it, leads directly to destruction. Here we call upon you that if you will not give up this proposal, at least accept the amendments submitted by the Association of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and at least partially mitigate what you have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88313	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Orsat Milenic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88314	Thank you very much, Vice President, Minister and all... colleagues... A microphone. [[the speaker is not turned on]] There it is, the greetings weren't recorded, but it's like I gave them away. So, I'm going, so far we've talked about the law in first reading, some things have changed, and I'm going to point to a few elements that I actually don't think are good. What's good, and there's a lot of good things I commend. And now I'm going to go in order. We'll all agree that one of the problems of our judiciary is unequal court practice. And there's talk about it, thinking about what to do and how to do, one of the ideas was the High Criminal Court. However, what you are offering today, in no way will contribute to the uniformity of judicial practice, I think it is unnecessary to introduce a court, which will not serve anything, or it is completely pointless. So we have 1900 cases to discuss a new court of 1900 on hundreds of thousands of cases that we have, so we're dealing with 1900 cases, we're setting up a court, where people are necessarily going to have bigger salaries, than in county courts, and in fact, they're not going to do anything. Because even now, he will decide only on decisions, first-degree judgments by county courts, which is now being decided by the Supreme Court, quite successfully, without any delays in the trial, unlike the civil court. So we're going to a criminal trial where there are no delays, we're going to solve where there's no unequal court practice, because the Supreme Court is equating them, you're setting up a new court, you're going to hire new people, no need at all. If you'd gone and I'd have supported it right away, if the High Court had been set up, as it was imagined, it would have solved all cases of criminal now and infraction, meaning primarily municipal, where we have unequal court practice and where we should be evened out. We are now, in fact, establishing a court, to deal with something, which doesn't make any sense, because practice is even, so you're just going to, you said 10 judges plus the staff that goes, it's going to get a new building, new jobs, no sense at all. In civic we don't touch at all, civil where the backlogs are in tens of thousands where the practice isn't even, we put it on the side, we go into this one. So, I don't think that was ambitious enough, that if you went already with a high criminal, you yourself said that in the CAP it was intended, that it should have been done in a way, that it deals with all matters primarily of the municipal level. Because if you're listening to citizens, so they don't mind someone getting here for two years, here's four for the same thing. This won't change where she's still in charge of the decision, and that's exactly what's left of her. And we deal at county level. I know there were pressures, etc. And if you were somehow pushed to go into this, but I repeat, it's pointless, you'll be paid out of the budget no more, you won't get anything. Maybe it's not too late, think about eventually applying that, to extend his jurisdiction, if you're already going that way and going that way. As far as the scope of the network is concerned, I really haven't and I don't see an excuse if we're already going back, and if we're the only country in Europe other than Serbia that increases the number, something they call basic or whatever, and we call municipal courts, so they're the only ones who did it, so now we're doing it. Why in Kutina or Crikvenica, why not in Samobor as mentioned by his colleague, Beljak. Look at the numbers, they're very similar to you. Why Sesvete, not Samobor, could we also, could be arbitrary and when you look historically, if it's historic, in Samobor there was a longer court than in the Sesvets, we could go like that. We could've, I don't know, complained to the mayor of Trogir the other day that they didn't have it in Trogir, why Crikvenica not Trogir. I mean because when we talked about it, I was purely friendlyly well-meaning, when you go open, when you go step back, then every argument becomes relative, because you'll be told here you gave, you're not here. The next time someone's in a position, they're going to increase the number again, because they're going to say, they have now Kutina, Crikvenica, Sesvete, so let's give it up now, etc. And we'll go backwards. It's not good, and I don't think it's a good increase in the number of municipal courts, but my God, it's a political decision and it's purely political, because it's actually professional by nothing. It is political, as such, to vote out of the majority, if it votes and that is, I am aware of it and that is so. I'm sorry you didn't think that time had begun to mature for that, if it wasn't now, I hope you're thinking about the number of county courts. Because the fact is that we have a very large network of county courts and that this is something, given the wages that are in that system, given the very small number of transfers, especially in the criminal sphere. If you're watching, you need more than five county courts to deal with criminal matters. If you had limited the number of countys to 5, you could have made five councils of the high court, leveled practice and actually had one system, which would have evened the municipal ones then. We're holding up too many county courts, which deal in criminal matters, and you have a whole series, last time we've listed courts that have 20 cases a year. I repeat, 20 cases a year and we hold six judges for it, because you have to have six county judges working 20 cases a year. No country can handle it, no state can pay for it. Maybe if it wasn't time for that now, but at least you put it as a hint, because it's some idea. Reduce their numbers, make the departments, be part of a high criminal court, and then you'll have a uniform practice. I'm sorry you didn't put it on, and maybe you could have made it through a deadline, so if it wasn't 2020, it'd be 2023, but at least you'd see a vision of going that way. That would be a real shift, then we could say, now we're going to even the bang, now we're going to cut where there's extra. Because here we at DSV are still getting, fill-in and criminal judges in courts, who have 20 cases a year. It fills people, people are named until 70 they'll be working there. So if you're going on that, I'm appealing, to set some deadlines and to cut that network, it's too much. Highly infringed, if we lift a misdemeanor, what do you need a high-level offender for? I think it was supposed to be integrated, maybe it's an idea to make it in due course, I guess it's, I'm just saying you can't see it from the law. If that's an idea, here, you'll certainly give us an explanation, if we don't have criminal courts, we don't need a major offense. I know it's a human problem that's going to be with people, and it won't, but maybe you can give us an idea in which direction it's going to develop because we're a little bit absurd. We've got no offenders, we've got high-level offenders. So it's something where it would be good to set a course again maybe some longer deadlines, but to start to develop it that way. As far as the DSV is concerned, I really think it's a bad thing to leave the opinion of the Justice Minister for the presidents of the courts. Citizens expect the ministry, expect the government to have an opinion on how it works in a court of law. And that he had at least something, some opinion about what the president was like. Not as a judge, because the presidents are particularly large courts and they're not judges. It's how he handled the affairs of the judicial and judicial administration. It's his job and the citizens expect it. And it's bad for me, especially since the Ministry has an inspection and still, it controls them, it has an e-record system, it sees what's going on, that the Ministry is pulling out of it and that the minister is no longer giving an opinion. The DSV can or doesn't have to consider it. He doesn't have to be taken by the Constitution because he's independent of it. And he doesn't have to take the opinion of the Supreme Court president. But anyway, it's something where you're here, you're a colleague, I think we're from opposite parties, but I'd still like you as a citizen to give an opinion on every president of the court as a citizen. Why? Because it's something where citizens want a kind of connection. This way, even more the judiciary is moving away from any one, I won't say democratic control, but at least transparency and that's something that's bad. I can't understand why you think the Minister of Justice shouldn't give an opinion on candidates for the presidents of the courts. This is in no way involving the independence of the judiciary, these are people who don't judge. You don't affect anything, but through it, if it's good, maybe it hasn't been worked out so far, we've introduced it, we've worked it out. Maybe we should work it out, not shut it down. Because you have one chance to still influence the processes and say something is good, something's not good. It's not good if the deadlines aren't respected in a court of law. That's what the president must be responsible for. You need to be able to stop thinking about someone who's worked for four years or who wants to work. My attitude. So that's it. As for the change in DSV, so I'm not speaking of course on behalf of the DSV, I'm speaking on behalf of the SDP. We're not happy and we don't like it, and we're not going to support a change where there's actually a reduction in the participation of judges that there are the most. So I still don't see the logic that you're reducing the number of municipal judges, increasing the number of county judges, why? These have the most and you reduce their number in DSV, increase the number of county. It doesn't make any sense. Then you can say OK, let's just put on the Supreme Judges, so let's let them decide who gets to be. It's a possible solution. So this isn't, I don't think it's unconstitutional or anything. The law will determine how it works. So he can do both. But in this way you're actually sending a message to the judges of municipal courts, you're not even able to choose yourself. That's not good. The other thing, you're now limiting the election to actually select only judges of that category for one category. So, for county, they only choose county ones, and they choose everything. It's been different so far, and I think the solution has been better so far. All judges are elected by all DSV candidates. Why? Because they decide about everyone. Well, they don't decide county just about county. Or community council or supreme supreme. This is how this one democratic process, and we can talk a lot about work, but this is not going to improve. In the long run, these groups will actually be narrower and easier to do some lobbying in the election and the result will not be good. It'll be exactly the opposite. So it won't fix what bothers all of us, which is that often the best candidates are not chosen, that those who need to be promoted are not, that they are others. That's not gonna get away with it. And we're going to close, we're going to create an antagonism that I don't think is good at. I'm saying, you can consistently say OK, the judges will not pick anyone first degree. Okay. But if you leave one, only one representative for the ones he has the most, it doesn't make sense. So you chose this solution, I'm afraid it's not going to give good solutions in practice, but that's it. All in all, because of these things we don't consider good we won't support these changes. Although, as I said, that should be said publicly, the amendments to the Law also bring some good things. And that's something that we talked about this, that some of these things, and we talked about them and in the first reading, went in the second direction we would certainly be open here for support because it's in everyone's interest that the situation in the judiciary be as good as possible and that the citizens are actually satisfied. And I'll repeat what I keep saying. Croatia has the highest number of judges in Europe by population, we are relatively in the upper third after our budget. At the pleasure of our citizens, we are at the very bottom. And that's what's the big deal. It doesn't matter to you today, I think it matters to you today, it has been before, but I'm afraid with these changes it will remain. And that's what we don't address. We don't address how a citizen will get a better favor for the money he's giving out, and he's giving out big money. Because I'm telling you, we're relatively at the top, not at the top but towards the top third in the EU. And that's bad. We pay a lot, we hire a lot of people, and we don't have a result. So, because of these things I was talking about, we're not going to back up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88315	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which she was to speak a respected colleague, Anka Mrak-Taritash. She's gone. He's losing his right to speak. And we're going to an individual debate. The first one will be spoken by Representative Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88316	Thank you very much. There's a law right in front of us. The laws, the reforms of the judiciary, I can only say that about what I mentioned on behalf of the club that justice is the cancer of the Croatian society, that it is too isolated, that we have the most judges per capita, I will repeat what is said, but people are dissatisfied with the judiciary and we are in... The judiciary at the bottom of the bottom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fact is that in the first reading when we talk about seats, my individual debate here will be the most reflected but also this second part, the DSV is the fact that in the first reading I warned about centralised il. The point you listed in the seats, in the law, is now in the final proposal but in the first reading it was that the seats and areas of the courts, to amend the laws, i.e. The increase now to 10 municipal courts, essentially resulting in this stunt cannot manage large globular systems such as the Split Court was, municipal and Zagreb court, and then you found one solution, Split I, Split II in the largest county along with Makarska, and in Makarska there is a special story, in Makarska you could ask the Macarans what kind of court was and what was done in that court on corruption, in all matters, it will be for you citizens of Makarska if you go to the ministers, and ask how it worked. But now we're gonna get hold of this seat piece. So the basic message that was the legislator of you as a legislator, according to us the legislator was that this law would essentially balance and decentralise this role in large systems such as Split and Zagreb. But now another funny thing, now there's one court, it's separate as a misdemeanor, and this, I'm sorry that the minister is leaving because we have a few important questions, a couple of important questions only to the minister, which I have one picture here in Sinj when he said, I see in a statement that he writes, all in the interest of the people, it's going to be the Sinj Court, and so I have a picture of a fantastic smile, that's all that's happened so I'd like to read him everything that's been going on, a promotion of those last few months. As soon as I knew I had responded, I asked for a meeting of all the mayors, the mayors, the mayors. I asked for this exclusively, that meeting even took place on 6 March 2018 before the first reading. Generally, the Ministry of Justice referred to by this Law on the Areas of Courts, in the assessment of the situation in relation to the size of individual courts or judicial areas, is the main indicator, meaning difficulties and size and scope of the judiciary. And that's why we now have 10 new ones, there are 10 left, but we no longer have municipal 1.2 in Split, but remains the Municipal Court in Makarska. I'm saying that certain areas must have 50,000 inhabitants, which is what the Dalmatian Zagora and the Cetin region does, mainly because we have only the Cetin region of 48 000 inhabitants, not adding that Muc, a road that is attached to Lečevica and other municipalities. So we cross more inhabitants, we have than Ličko-Senj County and we are superficially larger than numerous counties and also Međimurje County. However, if that criterion was meant we have these criteria as well as all other conditions, historical, geographical, cultural, economic, return infrastructure. The establishment of the Municipal Court in Sinj. With regard to the operation of the municipal court, we have found here some sort of solution from 2015 that it will be some sort of exposition, not counting on people traveling to 100 km from the top area, the stone, the trile area, up to 100 km in one direction and that it represents somewhere around the annual need to come to court to require 20,000 people plus lawyers, plus the whole story, means when they come from Split 80 km, it's about 5.6 million kuna, our citizens have to give out of these poor parts for transportation that is poorly organised. I must mention here that the infrastructure of the building in Sinj fully meets all standards, the court building was built back in 1885 during the Austro-Hungarian region where the emperor came to even open, I said if we consider the Austro-Hungarian alien that he ruled over us, then we had that building built. In 2000, it was invested in 10, 12 million kunas, so it has all the conditions, the minister was downstairs, so he saw what it was about. I think that these are the best services in the area of the Chetino area and the Dalmatian burning because the fact that at this point we're going to have bigger costs and I'm going to explain that. When people travel, means people who travel, both judges and employees and citizens, that it will be much higher costs and by setting up, by restoring our right to the Municipal Court in Sinj, to the heart of the Dalmatian burning is only just and what is counter-decentralization and what is a demographic measure. This is an antidemographic measure. In writings when we have meaning now a permanent court in Sinj, and a permanent service, however, we certainly know and know that after 4 hours the court is closed, that everything that happens after 4 hours goes to Split, that these judges have huge costs, how to come to us, as well as vice versa. I will point out once again and say that on 26.3. there was a meeting of the mayors, the mayors who were all agreed, the mayor's representative agreed to return the municipal court to Sinj, Minister Bosnjakovic was, here and a picture of one of the portals where he said he would all work in the interest of the people with his members of the HDZ party in Sinj, we will send a message to the municipal court. Here, you can see the picture if you don't remember from the portal you can see, it's published. I believed it was settled. Even a meeting has been arranged together where we will be parliamentary representatives. I can even quote Mr. Ivan Šipić, a parliamentary representative who publicly says that he advocates a municipal court in Sinj and that it is a shameful shut-down of institutions and we had to shut down even the birthplaces in 2009 so we had to organise protests. So we have the largest power generation in the Cetina region, most hydropower plants. Then every once in a while, we lose jobs in these hydroelectric power plants in the Cetina region. However, they are increasing in Split, in the plants and in Zagreb by a dozen places, as well as in this case. I think this is an anti-demographic measure where our citizens will have to travel to other places, to shut down institutions, to historical institutions, to the Court of Sin is a historical institution. There is no Knin; the same day will be the Storm and the Alks of Sin, so I invite you to come to this historic city of Sinj after the Knin. So the entire Dalmatian Zagora remains without any municipal court. This is the fact that from Knin, Drniš, Sinjska, Cetinska krajina, Vrgoraksko end, the Imotski region remains without the municipal court and this is the fact that something is attached down to Makarska and the Macarska court could tell stories about corruption and crime. That's what the minister will ask about when he gets to Makarska. And of course the property is boycotted here. And I expect these amendments to be made by you fellow MPs, who are from those areas. We can't consider the Dalmatian Zagora. I'm against this number of counties. And ultimately, if he doesn't accept this, then we don't have any others but we're looking for the Dalmatian Zagora to be a county, because neither is the mayor's concern, nor is the Minister's concern for the Dalmatian Zagora other than coming to Sinjska Alka. That's where he'll come in. There you will see them in the honorary lodge painted in the historic city where 200 years was the court, where we had, where the foreign court opened us, but at this point we are shutting down the Municipal Court. I am sorry about the whole area of Imotskog, Drnskog, Sinjskog, Vrlikko, Triljski, Imotski krajina, which is being shut down by all institutions and what is essentially targeted by this historic very important area, were first of all the human potentials that went to Zagreb, now finally we are shutting down the last institutions and you are the ministers of the last gravestone of that end. I don't know who's going to blow out the candle, but surely you don't need to be proud that there are no more municipal courts in the Dalmatian region and that in the historical capitals we're abolishing these institutions that represented and meant something to this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88317	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88318	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I agree with you that Sinj should have a municipal court as well as a Samobor and a new town. Because when we make some changes, then we have to have clear criteria and the number of residents that gravitate that court and the number of judges, the number of cases, but it's equally important that it's not just a court and judge, but that there are both employees and administrative employees, guards, that there are public notebooks, that there are lawyers, caterers and that we keep jobs in those parts. With this model when we do not have clear criteria, when we remove some municipal courts that should have a municipal court and which have a historical tradition, we are doing another injustice to the Croatian people and we will again have eviction from these parts and again you and I will be the only ones who are making noises and they will be the ones who carry out reforms. I think reforms should be carried out where people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88319	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88320	I agree that every institution has its own stopper because if the municipal court exists as a centre, there will be lawyers, there will be hosts, there will be a whole story, there will be more people, and like this we only have the costs of those citizens who have 100km to pay travel expenses and return examples from the border of Bosnia and Herzegovina, or we leave the Vrličko area, only have huge costs. And you're right 100%. This is the centralization of the most morbid, this is anti-demographic law. This is, I don't know why you're doing it in this difficult demographic occasion where we all call for emigration now from Imotski, Vrgorec, Sinj, Cetinski, Drniš, Knin, you forget and you've mentioned your endings. I'm now talking about the ends where I come from, it's 130 thousand people in that area. And absolutely no one cares except that they arrive at the time of the Dručni prosciutto, Sinjsko alka, Storm, come to paint or “Vrgorakski prosciutto” and I don’t know when they come to Imotski, the colleague Babic could say it better at what time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88321	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you mention the abolition of the municipal court in Sinj and can agree with you on the historical importance of both the area and the court itself but remains a permanent service, so there is no suspension in terms and everyone has stated that they will fight to leave the municipality, fighting for leaving the permanent service. So it won't change much. And regarding lawyers and hosts, etc., the permanent service remains, and Sinj will not be neglected on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88323	The answer of the esteemed fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88324	Everything you have said about the permanent ministry does not appear in the law, these are good words, good wishes that do not come from the will of the people and not from the will of the leaders. Among you is a colleague, Šipic, who agreed with my proposal at a joint meeting of mayors and mayors and representatives of the county. We won't have a choice, unfortunately,... against the county rather than the separation from Split-Dalmatia County, Sibenik-Kninska, the separation of the Dalmatian Zagora and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] County of this number. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We won't, but we're forgotten. The mayor also represented the views that a municipal court in Sinj, where is now a municipal court, a permanent service? What does it say in permanent service? Is that what the law says, or is that a good wish, a deception? We won't have a choice, you understand, but ask for a referendum on separation from the county because the Dalmatian Zagora has been forgotten. Split us into two counties and no one cares about those parts except during the Storm Knin, Alka when it's Sinjska alka, this year on the same date, you'll all come, but shut down our institutions, demographically destroying us. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88325	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88326	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates. We have before us three laws united in one debate, three laws that are pretentiously called judicial reform, a mini reform. However, from the content of what we could read from these two discussions in the first and second readings, it is clear that there is no reform there, that the judiciary will remain in the same poor state as it has been so far. Because more than 90% of Croatian citizens still think that there are privileged citizens in front of Croatian courts, and the same, almost the same percentage thinks that the judiciary is corrupt. I would really like so many citizens to be mistaken but they are not because if 90% of them are complicated in something it means that there is a consensus in the Croatian people regardless of whether they are the voters of the Living Wall or the HDZ all have the same opinion. It is interesting that the government's president said the other day that Croatia is better than Central African countries by its standard, however, on the issue of justice, we are worse than those countries. Less trust is given to citizens and less effective judiciary than in Kenya, Ghana, Chad and other African countries. This is not something that I am here on a flat-rate basis but using official statistics published a few days ago that the Croatian judiciary is 134 in the world of 138 observed countries. And it just shows how missed these changes are because we are facing something that represents a grave disease with camels and are essentially citizens of this country tomorrow will still have justice as they have so far, slowly, tromo, inefficiently, corruptly. If the European Union had really respected those principles on the accession of new members who were publicly declared Croatia today could not be a member of the European Union. Because, among other things, in the European Union, every trial that lasts for more than five years is considered a violation of human rights. And we have hundreds of thousands of objects in Croatia that are over ten years old and tens of thousands of objects that are over 20 years old. We in Croatia have such kilometers of files that will probably enter the Ginis Book of Records as it is not known against Zdravko Mamić on 17 thousand pages, against the Varazdin Mayor 36 thousand pages and against Ivo Sanader 40 thousand pages. It is such a number of pages that the minister himself probably would not have read in his entire life if someone had forced him to do so, and it is crucial to note that all of these are closely associated with the ruling majority or are members of their parties. Someone will say that Croatia does not have enough judges, that there is not enough infrastructure to do so now as well, but we have the number of judges per 100,000 inhabitants of another country in Europe. We have 41, to 45 judges, unlike Denmark who has six judges, unlike Ireland or Great Britain, who has 3 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, and they make first-degree judgments within a few weeks, while for our first-degree verdict on average, it takes more than a year. And I repeat once again, hundreds of thousands of convictions and five years is not enough. Here I come, for example, from Chakovec, there's a case where a young man was killed seven years ago, and it took a first-degree verdict, so, for murder, the killers were walking the streets of the city. And why is that? I wouldn't go into that because there's an appeal to a lawsuit, to a verdict. If this were worth something to the Ministry of Justice, then it would approach the resolution of serious Croatian problems. Several key points to resolve would surely restore citizens' confidence in the institution and, most importantly, would stop emigration. Because we saw the other day according to the analyses made by the Croatian Catholic University that citizens who go outside are employed and that citizens who go outside have a settled housing issue. But they don't leave, so much for wages or for existential reasons, but leave first of all because they have lost confidence in the institutions in order and the integrity of our country. And this particular judiciary has a major role to play. Minister Bošnjakovic, if it were fair, you would have solved the Swiss franc case long ago, which 60 thousand Croatian families destroyed. If there were any honesty, you would have solved the issue of illegal interest on which there is a final verdict, but today in Croatia interest is being charged illegally. If it were fair, we would be here today discussing not the courts' seats, but the law of law. Do you know, in May, the number of blocked citizens rise again compared to April. Do you know that their debt has risen again? Do you know, that Croatian citizens, who have been blocked, have not been able to live normally for 10 years. Are you aware that this is exactly the reason for Croatia's moral breakdown and that you are personally responsible for this because you have signed the executive law and because you refuse to change it. What you suggest, so when a man reads in a newspaper, he doesn't know if he'd laugh or cry. A man who owes 500 grand can repay his debt in wars. So what wars if there's no money? If he hasn't been able to charge through FINA for 10 years now, in which he will now be returning 500 grand to war allegedly for 60 months. So they're going to pay back 8,500 a month. From where? He couldn't go back by now. He won't be able to get back to the future. You say, who can't be charged through FINA, now they're going to be charged in a different way. So what does that have to do with it? The debt remains still, no matter how it's charged. What are the law enforcement agencies doing? Claiming agencies, they buy a 10% debt, then the state gives them tax relief to the banks, and then that agency, again, charges that same debt for 100%. So what's that supposed to be? Are you aware that this entire system of yours, it goes exclusively to the trustees, 100% to the trustees and 0% to the hand of the officials. Is that constitutional, is that just? What are you waiting for? You've been telling me for two years that you're going to solve this problem. You're writing in the program credible. Is that credible? How much longer? Do you know what will happen when the borders of Slovenia and Austria are opened for our workers? And another 200 or 300 thousand working men will leave their wishes. For what? Because of you and your 77 hands in the Parliament, because you exclusively work for stakeholders. You're scared, you're scared. And I understand that you're afraid, it's okay, it's human, but if you're afraid, you're not worthy of being in that position. Only a man who is not afraid, who has the courage to carry out reforms, has the right to be called Minister of Justice and Prime Minister. What are you shaking before? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88327	Thank you. The next debate is a respected representative, and forgive me, a replica, a respected representative of Tomislav Sokol, I hope in a topic rather than beyond the subject, as my colleague Bunjac spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88328	The subject is in any case the judiciary. So, Comrade Bunjac, you mentioned this package of laws, which will be found soon in the Assembly regarding... What I would point out is that this is really the first attempt by a government, as well as the continuation of the policy, seen in the amendments to the Implementing Law, is limited last year, precisely to facilitate the situation of the blocked. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to talk about it in detail right now, because I don't have time, but what I'd like to point out is that you say only believers are protected. It is necessary to find a solution that protects both believers and debtors. But what you, where you deceive the public, are trying to convince some people that they won't have to pay back, and that's not the solution. So the debts must return, this package of laws goes precisely to facilitate that those debts, which can return, those who cannot return, are allowed to start from the beginning to the debtors. But don't deceive people that they're possibly some kind of magic wand, that they won't be able to repay debts, because it can't go anywhere for one hour, which will never go away. And that's what your voters need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88329	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88330	Thank you very much, Representative Falcon, only you live in the belief that debts can be paid back, only you pay back your debts nicely, I wish you a lot of success in that work. I remind you of official statistics from FINA, that blocked citizens who have been blocked longer than 3 years have managed to repay their debts, 1% of Croatian citizens. Is that how the debts come back, so what are you talking about? 63 billion kunas have been standing on the FINA for 10 years and is only increasing exponentially. Why don't the state pay back their debts when the debts can come back, what are you waiting for? You have 700 billion kuna in the economy, so give it back. Here, you're capable of it, you know how to pay your debts, as far as I can see, you can only borrow yourself. It's easy to go to Qatar for you, or I don't know a country, so lend billions of euros, and citizens can't do that, that's what makes a difference. When you pay back your debts, I'll believe you can pay them back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88331	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Assistant, fellow MPs. I planned to start an individual debate in another way, but sooner I would just refer to something that Bunjac said, which is said in this debate, and also related to it. As for borrowing, this particular government, the first one in this millennium, has reduced public debt, but has reduced the share of public debt in GDP even more. So from that record we had at the time of the SDP from 85% of GDP to 78% of GDP and managed to reprogram loans that a few hundred million kunas a year would save only on interest. So when you tell us that we're in debt, then I think we really need to tell the truth, which is if one government has eased the burden of borrowing the Republic of Croatia that's this government. The second you mentioned the debts, or the claim that lasts longer than 3 years. So these are the changes that we are going to have now in the Parliament, the amendments to the laws, meaning not these laws, but those recently passed in the Government, are going to settle these debts. So it's impossible for someone to be blocked for more than three years if they're in the last six months. It has not been charged and it is facilitated that the loss of consumers means that for debts up to 20,000 that last where claims last for more than three years exactly to protect them, that what you mentioned is exactly 1%, only 1% of debts that are longer than 3 years are charged and that is why this government is going to solve this problem, that those debts that can be charged through simpler procedures, and that those who cannot allow these people to start again. And in that sense, I am very pleased that some estimates of one third or even more of the 1/3 of the blocked will be unblocked thanks to these government measures. So to attack this government that solves those problems that occurred in the mandates of the previous governments, in the mandates of the longest recession in Europe with the record borrowing of the last SDP government when most of these problems were created, that it's coming to us I don't think it's right. But good. That's what this part is all about. I just had to say some things to the public. Mostly as far as these court-bound laws are concerned, I'm not going to talk about areas and courts' seats, it's already said a lot, but I'm going to concentrate on some of the things that I think are important. So first of all, I certainly support as I said in my first reading this merger of the misdemeanors with municipal courts and the release of the good part of the misdemeanors to fill in those places where we are deficited especially in the area of civil law, which I think my colleague Milenić mentioned is one of the problems where the biggest lags are, and also the performance. Now, as I know, and that's one more thing you would point out I know that the new Executive Law is being prepared and it needs to be pointed out to the public. So that's what it's all about, but it's not working overnight, as some would like to see mistakes in the steps later on, but it's precisely why it's done thoroughly with the inclusion of the strongest Croatian experts in order to make this final executive law better. However, I'd like to warn you of another matter. As far as I'm aware is one of the ideas, the urgency of the misdemeanors being transferred to the executive cases and expected given the likely direction in which the amendment of the executive law will go that the good part, that this part concerning credible documents that are now being made by public notebooks, will actually come to court again. Well, that's why I'd point out one thing. Thus, the debate often mentions the Court of Justice's rulings in the cases of Zufik, Karpasic and Pula Park. So one of the frequent interpretations but incorrect is that the European Court of Justice has banned public records. It's just not true. What these judgments are about is the application of two regulations on the recognition and enforcement of court decisions from one Member State in another Member State of the European Union. The only thing the Court of Justice of the European Union has found here is that public record decisions do not fall within the definition of judicial decisions of those offices. And in that sense, it matters. Why am I stressing that? Because I don't think it would be good if now the full burden of all the charges was transferred to the courts again because we're going to have narrow throats, again we're going to have a prolonging payment, etc. which will again lead to problems and asphyxiation in the part where demand is not actually disputed. I, one of the problems we have in Croatia, which is rarely mentioned by the Living Wall is the problem of indifference. And right now, the problem is the bill. It is precisely the problem that believers are charged by their debtors because of many ineffectiveness in the system and many bottlenecks actually lead to an indifference problem, so that a believer who cannot be charged in one procedure can become debtor and blocked in another procedure. And for that very reason, the system should protect both the religious and the debtors. So things aren't as simple as you're showing them. And we need to think about the relative interest, the balance of interest of all sides. So what I'd say in that section means, I welcome this merger of courts, the release of meaning criminal judges to do other cases. However, I would stress that when reforming the Executive Law and the executive system in a direction that will be taken to ensure that not all the burden is relocated to the courts, it is to try to find some interest so that there is no further pro-longing of the proceedings. I also think it's important because we have criminal judges who have never, perhaps or for a very long time, worked civil and executive cases if they're going to switch to that section to ensure that one system may not tell their additional training but perhaps to refresh knowledge so that they can be as quick as possible in the most qualitative way and take over these other kinds of procedures in order to reduce all these backlogs we're talking about. So that's one thing. The second thing you'd like to mention is Article 57. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. So I put in the first reading one remark, and it was about grading the judges' work. So there's one of the criteria to be taken when assessing the quality of 60 points is mentioned the ratio of the number of judgments abolished with the number of legal medicines invested. On that occasion, however, I pointed out that the number of judgments lifted, i.e. the total number of decisions taken, should also be taken. Because if we look at only the number of legal medicines, we kind of stimulate those judges who file complaints, and we don't stimulate those judges who solve cases in a quality way that maybe there's no appeal at all. So I'm glad that this criterion is added to mean that the number of overall decisions is seen and that we do not punish judges whose decision there is no appeal. Generally, as far as judge evaluation is concerned, there are no simple solutions if you try to quantify things as much as possible. Again, there are ways to bypass this, for example, the President of the Court may be open to some of us to give easier objects to our favorites, which will be shorter, which are less problematic, where there is less chance of investing legal medicines than others and of course there are never ideal solutions. But I think that what these amendments to the law make is going in a better direction to better control and that further through the framework criteria that need to be further elaborated, these standards will actually improve and will adapt as much to each individual case as possible so that really those judges who work best will be adequately evaluated and able to progress. Furthermore, as far as DSV is concerned, I'm saying that we had that whole debate about interpreting decisions of the Constitutional Court, of automation, of points, of neutomatism. I'm glad that one good balance means that it's not total automation, but yet it's given some parameters that it can't be too far-fetched so that there's no absolute discretion that the DSVs actually make decisions without having to do with points and we know that there have been such cases before. So I think this solution where that autonomy isn't complete but is limited by a certain number of points, I think it's good and I think it's a solution that needs to be welcomed. I also welcome the meaning of extending it is one difference from the first reading in relation to the judges of the high courts. So if I'm not mistaken, it's extended now means experience from 10 years to 12 years, and so far we've been 8. So if we look at the current situation, we raise 50%, I think that's good, I think that's how they stimulate and determine higher criteria than they are in our trial today, which should also contribute to the quality of the court decisions themselves. Here, and finally what I would like to point out, as you mentioned, concerns the department for the monitoring of European law and monitoring and judgment of European courts. I think it's very important. So our courts are now part of an EU justice system. So where is one of the most important legal protection procedures exactly the process of the previous issue where national courts send their questions and requests to interpret the EU's verdict. It seems to me that our awareness of it hasn't yet come to life. I think, and here, you correct me if you know it, but I think only 9 previous questions have been sent to the EU court and so I think there is still room for improvement and that our courts are strengthening this co-operation with European courts, so I support these monitoring assignments, and I particularly support this, and I stress that there is no point in monitoring only those cases in which the Republic of Croatia is party but also cases where other member states are parties, but which have repercussions to the Republic. Here, we know that as a country, we need a systematic monitoring of the full practice of European courts, so we know how to set ourselves up, that the courts know how to adapt the case law to Croatia, that the Supreme Court can coordinate the case law according to what the Court of Justice of the EU and the European Court of Human Rights decide, so I think, so that I also support this proposal. Here, and I think these proposals are good, that there will be some steps in the quality of decision-making, and that is why I support these proposals of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88333	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He is the first respected representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88334	Thank you very much, Mr. Sokol. So you say debts are paid. Al FINA has, only FINA has charged 45 billion kuna from citizens over the past 8 years, but debts have increased. So they didn't shrink, they increased. Well, look, I repeat my statistics on April-May. The number of blockeds has increased. What is this system in which you allow a claimant agency to make 1 000 kunas after that? So where's that? Under these same conditions, why don't you sell the creditors' debts to the demand paying agencies to the debtors? Why don't you give them the first buy, so he can buy it for 1,000 kunas his debt. I believe you'd somehow find it. So that's the system I'm talking about, which exclusively goes on the trustee's arm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88335	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88336	Thank you very much. Well, it is, that's right. But for what reason, what are the reasons for the growth of debts? One of the main reasons is that the interest is just tight. And tight interest increases for one reason, it's these long-term blockades when nothing can be settled from the account because there's no funds, and debt due to tight interest increases. And it is precisely with this new draft law on the implementation of the budget implementation proposed by this government, that this should be reduced to 3 years. So after three years, the procedures won't last forever with FINA. The blockades will not last forever, but a maximum of 3 years, plus these provisions, these amendments and additions to the Consumer Bank Act that will allow them to, after 3 years, leave simplified in the bankruptcy process, if they cannot be settled, that they can start from the end, from the beginning. So this particular government stands on it, what it does is it prevents such practice from continuing and that's what needs to be welcomed, not just criticising it uncritically on the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88337	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Sokol, I'm only going to refer to what you said in the introduction, which is either borrowing or not. I'm gonna say it one more time, it's about reprogramming debts. So, borrowing on much more favourable terms, less interest. So if it's a nonsens, then he really doesn't know what he's talking about. Which we might have to pay bigger interest, and we had a comfortable position that because of good governance and good financial policy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has more favourable conditions in the financial markets. As far as blocked, the truth is, which is the solution you stakeholders in the political space have offered, that no one pays anything. Is that the answer? So with three laws that change, the government has offered a solution for blocked citizens, over 325 thousand of them. If she hadn't done anything, then you would have just yelled that the government was doing nothing to protect our citizens. Therefore, it is unacceptable to speak nonsense and lies, and that is also politically irresponsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88339	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88340	Thank you very much. Well, that's right, my fellow Glavak. Exactly what we have here is... Because they forget the consequences of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the loans won't have to come back, no one's gonna give the loans anymore. And then what about new generations that otherwise cannot solve their existential issues. What we need to do is bring the system to some normal level and balance the interests of all sides. As a believer, as well as a debtor. About interest. Why did the interest fall? So the interest rate is lower today than it was five years ago. So this is the government, the first government in 20 years, if not more, that has raised the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia. And precisely because of this higher credit rating that at the time of the SDP government crashed into the garbage we now have lower interest and that is why we can reprogramme debts as states and debtors today can, so private persons, natural persons can get loans on more favourable terms. And that's the way we should go. But that responsibility, which is not tossing floscules to collect one-day political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88341	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88342	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, I don't know where you've spent all these years, have you been on an expedition to Mars or maybe you've been to Africa, when you talk about positive trends in the Republic, is there a positive trend of 330 thousand blocked? Is it a positive trend that 350 thousand and more people have left the Republic of Croatia working at the best age and with the best knowledge? As far as courts are concerned, it doesn't matter where the courts are anymore than what judgments are passed. So here I was talking today about the verdict by Judge Hrvoje Viskovic in Zadar where the journalist and man was beaten free, so I don't see the very positive trends. Is that people, that they have to pay their debts, but why are 330,000 people blocked? For what? We need to ask ourselves what happened at age 27 in this situation and in this situation. I think you're closing your eyes in front of the obvious and you're talking about, you're making a beautiful day with some topics that aren't really, they're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88343	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88344	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, I don't do anything to make things better, that it's not a good situation. So we know there are 325 thousand blocked. The underlying causes of this situation, however, are not today but were created at a time when your new, old, whatever you want to call the coalition partner was in power, with which you are sitting with which you signed the pre-election agreement. So I don't know who's coming from Mars and who's telling the truth and who's credible. But mostly what I would point out, precisely by the measure of this government, up to 120,000 people will be unblocked. So this is the first government to do something and those who have caused problems are now standing by, criticizing, and all of us are sorely minded. But I think Croatian citizens will be able to assess who is responsible, who works for public interest and who collects cheap points.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88345	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Bačić. We have prior injuries to the Rules of Procedure. What's the first thing, Comrade Bully? What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88346	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So the fellow Falcone and the replicas that followed were in violation of Article 238, so they spoke of an issue that was not subject to discussion. The fact is that everything fellow Sokol said about the completed, the blocked, the government's successes and not a single word mentions the laws on the courts that are currently in the debate, which are the seats and areas, that is the State Judiciary Council. It was mostly just a talk of great successes, of the accomplished, of blocked and successful government and not a single mention of the law of both fellow Sokol and colleague Glavak and no one mentioned the current law that we are discussing. But otherwise, you're the usual one to warn a colleague of the Bundes. me, if you go... mention it in this topic. [[Intruder Rainer: colleague Bulj, thank you, we get it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88347	Like this, right now you're way out of your depth, I didn't warn you. However, it is not, I estimate that it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure for the simple reason that I, as you have testified, have allowed quite a broad debate. For example, a colleague of Bunjac hardly spoke of any of the three laws but mainly of the blocked etc.. I didn't tell him that at all. Therefore, I have allowed a broad debate because here some of you consider this a general debate on the judiciary and on the functioning of the judicial system and may not be wrong. So, please, let's not get caught up in the injuries of the Rules of Procedure right now. And I appeal to those who now would have gone into mutual fire on the violations of the Rules of Procedure, if the Rules of Procedure had not been hurt, nor had he been injured. I'm holding it like that, and I didn't say anything to my colleague, Bunjcu, although he talked for 10 minutes about all the issues except these three laws. So please, we give up, you give up? Okay. You're not giving up? Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88348	I thank the esteemed Vice President, so here's an article of the 328th colleague has been a little insulting here and talking about our coalition partners, future, past or not. A fellow Sokol, 27 years old in this country, has been leading the country for 20 years. The state is run by HDZ [[/Intruder Reiner: What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?]] So the coalition partner you mentioned may be one-quarter guilty of your party. [[Reiner: What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in? You'll get a warning if you keep going.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88349	I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88350	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88351	Please, nice. Now the word will be given to the esteemed representative Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try to get back a little bit on the subject of these three laws that are before us and that we are discussing and well that we put it under a united debate so that I will touch every law by a few parts that I think is, here if I can,... Thank you, thank you, we're used to it in Dalmatia a little bit to outvote ourselves. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm going to try to touch all three laws, a few parts that I think should be particularly emphasized, perhaps possibly consider future changes of some kind. As for the objectives of amending the law on courts and some of the most important proposals, it stands out, and we've discussed a lot here right now about the merger of municipal and criminal courts. In between the two readings, in the first reading of this law, I based a lot solely on the seats of the courts that I will mention at the end of today's presentation, but also between the first two readings, I have consulted a little with both colleagues and lawyers and judges just to see their own reflections since they turned out to be quite secretive, they did not go into the media, which is normal and not their function, but in an informal conversation to see what their thinking is. There may have been a little concern right about the merger means municipal and misdemeanor courts. Why? Although the very reasoning of this law states that infringing courts will be deleted as a special type of court because there is a significant drop in the inflow of criminal cases. Yet, it looks at the intensity itself and how much it will affect the judges themselves when they move to municipal court cases. In fact, when we look exclusively at statistics, there is definitely logic for this connection because the truth is that the inflow of criminal cases has been reduced, so the urgency that the judge for the offences is distributed by the annual schedule of court presidents' affairs either on the criminal part or on the civic part is the issue of that particular transitional period. Some colleagues have mentioned in their discussions how much this will affect the quality of the court's decisions, how difficult this transition will be because we know that for some judges, for years, 10, 20 years, they have been working exclusively on infringement checks only on one law and whether or not it will be an adjustment when they now start dealing simply with other topics, such as compensation, matrimonial property, etc. whether it will be a problem and whether it will affect the quality of the court's decisions. In his first reading, the minister already stressed that education will be necessary, normal, and should not be a problem. The second thing that was controversy is about the establishment and establishment of the High Criminal Court of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the same statistical and somehow when we look at only the data of the courts, there are already four instances in the criminal proceedings, so that it is thus guaranteed a fair trial for the defendants themselves, so the question is, how much will this affect. But normally, as one statement, regulatory and according to the ministry's own assessment could also contribute to our criminal courts. As for judges, individuals who follow the decisions of the European Court of Justice, I think that so far has been a good practice, where colleagues in charge of this area have notified others by email or at the meetings of the department themselves. I think it is good that we in some way further professionalise this area, precisely because we see the very European gain of how much it affects our judicial decisions and that it is definitely even. As regards the establishment of new courts, they are 10 municipal but also this commercial court itself in Dubrovnik, in practice it has proved to be a particularly important decision and it is definitely good that there will be a trade court in Dubrovnik and it will definitely be welcomed by colleagues and lawyers and judges, but as far as the seats and some of these changes are concerned, which we mentioned, somehow in Split and the Dalmatian County, with all the problems, normally, which the courts have with the number of cases and with the decisions themselves, and with the statistics themselves, the largest polemics and the greatest stories, in the Split Dalmatian County are just related to the seat of the court. In the very replica at the beginning of the presentation, I looked back on it, and my colleagues discussed it, especially whether certain courts would be abolished, so we also mentioned the court in Sinj, which I do not believe will happen in the future, that the permanent service from there will be abolished. But it is interesting to note, in this second reading, the very seat of the municipal court in Split purely for public purposes, to point out once again, what the minister himself mentioned in the opening statement, we know where the court in Split is, municipally on... which is quite isolated from the city center itself, there is no very link to either lawyers or law school, nor students, nor parties, with anyone who is definitely needed by the municipal court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'd like to point out one more time, but I'd like to point out one more time, and I believe that the minister at the end of the exhibition will point out that, and that is to definitely think, that is. that this government will definitely go in the direction of the municipal court to be in one place. It is this famous judicial square or as it will already call, where we will have a municipal court and a specialised municipal criminal court, the county court, right near it is commercial. Because what we mentioned earlier, especially in Split, there's always a saying, going to court when it's said it goes to court, it's definitely where it's going. The evading of the municipal court to Dračevac that sentence goes to court is definitely lost, but I believe that in the term of this government, we will definitely restore the accessibility of the municipal and all other courts in the Split Dalmatian County area, in the jurisdiction of the County Court in Split, so I definitely welcome these amendments and additions and adoption of this package of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88353	We have one replica, the esteemed Representative of the Bulls, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88354	Thank you very much. My colleague here I will read you the conclusion, all the commissioners, the mayor and the representative in front of the mayor was Mr. Opačak in Sinj at a meeting I just called. The conclusion has two points, among other things was my colleague Ivan Šipic, and I can give you that conclusion, the participants of the meeting are unanimous on the need and necessity... the municipal court in the Court as an independent municipal court, since it is the primary interest of citizens, units of local self-government and institutions of the Cetina region and of the Dalmatian Zagora. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the proposal for a law on the area of central courts, the established municipal court in Sinj is to be included, the conclusion was held on 6 March in Sinj at the town hall of Sinj. Therefore, mayors and commissioners, my colleague Šipic, the mayor, are the representatives of his draft municipal court in Sinj in the interest of the Dalmatian Zagora. But that's not why it's not included. That's what you're asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88355	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88356	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I absolutely agree with you, especially if you have a black on white that such a conclusion was made at a meeting of mayors and mayors, but we must also note from that conclusion it comes out, that it is thought of a permanent service. So nothing, no quality of trial or quality of life standards of the Cetin region falls if the permanent service in Sinj There will be no problem, so when it is said that there will be a municipal court in Sinj, it is also thought of a permanent service. [[Intruder Reiner: colleague Bulj.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88357	The next replica is the respected representative of Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88358	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, I always advocate reducing the number of courts. And I criticized this from the aspect of increasing the number of municipal courts. However, you have commended the conversion of permanent service to Dubrovnik into an independent Trade Court. But then that's the same logic you could apply to Sinj, mentioned by colleague Bulj, because also if you go there there's no criteria, then it could turn into a court like something third and fourth or so on. So, what am I saying? Croatia is too small for such a network to be reduced, not increased, let's not have the illusion that everyone should have a court at their doorstep, that they will not travel, so they should travel to the court, so that is no problem. But I'm saying if you have a criterion for doing it in one place, you do it in another place or you don't do it anywhere. So that's what my basic grudge is or everywhere or nowhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88359	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88360	Thank you, colleague, for asking and commenting. Just what I said, meaning in consultations with colleagues lawyers and judges, regarding criteria, court practice has shown a great need for a Commercial Court in Dubrovnik. So, I didn't mention Bjelovar because... but court practice has shown colleagues and lawyers and judges that it is necessary to establish a Trade Court there. Maybe that's my opinion or colleagues I've been consulting with, but that's how I'm guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88361	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88362	I would like to thank the Vice-President, my regards to the Minister and the Secretary of State. So, I want to look primarily at the proposal for a law on areas and courts and state attorneys' offices and to do one chronology of laws that regulates this area. Thus, there, the establishment of the county in 94 was followed by the fact that each county had its own County court, it was later seen that this was not really the best solution, and then in 2010 it went into a back-up process to merge these existing county courts, i.e. to establish certain permanent services. That's how it is, for example. the area of Koprivnica-Kryzevci County came into one situation where the Municipal Court is currently located in Koprivnica, which is under jurisdiction along with the permanent service in Đurđevec, which will be established on 01.09. under the jurisdiction of the County Court in Varazdin, and the permanent service in the town of Križevci where, as the permanent service of the Municipality Court of Bjelovar, the Bjelovar County Court. So, in addition to these current arrangements, we have a situation where we have the commercial jurisdiction of the court in Bjelovar covering the entire three counties, and one part, therefore, the Koprivnica-Cristeva County is breaking up and territorially regarding the jurisdiction of the county civil courts, while on the other hand, it is fully within the jurisdiction of the same court as trade cases. I believe that the solution was how it used to be, and the word from the time of the district and the kotar courts when the area and the current Koprivnica-križevnica, Bjelovar-Bilogor and Virovitica-Podravska County was, in fact, the best solution for the municipal court in Koprivnica, which should change its jurisdiction, i.e. no longer under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in the County Court in Varazdin than the County Court in Bjelovar. There is therefore a lot of reasons, one of the most important is the fact that the organisationally functional County Court in Bjelovar enters one pilot digitalisation project and thus the service itself would be much more efficient, and on the other hand all three counties would be in one whole under the sole jurisdiction of the County and Trade Court in Bjelovar. As regards the establishment of permanent services, I believe that this is a good move and that they need to be established all the time and for all those areas where we have unresolved property-legal relations, we know that the objective of orderly ownership is the primary objective of each grantine, and they are established 150 years ago and over, and as long as we do not digitise that segment fully every permanent service, each single grantin will actually aim, with the fact that the State-Geodetic administration should also be encouraged, but also local communities to enter into the process of catastrian changes of the digitalisation of plans in order to reduce the costs and the need to physically go to courts, permanent services, and then it can be done that further step of more centralisation or unification of the area and the courts's seats. Compared to the Law on the State Judicial Council in the first reading debate, some proposals have been accepted, and this seems to be now balanced, perhaps one option, which is recording audiovisually during the conduct of the candidate procedure, that is, conversations with candidates would be really stressful for all those participating in the process and this is the case for a very stressful situation, and this possibility should indeed be left for those candidates who would willingly want to be filmed and later presented even on the web pages. As far as running for members of the State Judicial Council is concerned, I have one proposal that has not been tabled so far, and it is a fact that everything can be a judge running for a member of the State Judiciary Council. Current limitation in art. 12. It applies only to those judges who have been given a strict measure in the last four years, and I think it would be good to examine whether, as judges who will be members of the State Judiciary Council, members of the Management Board of the Croatian Association of Judges can be appointed. Why do I see the problem here? I see the problem for reasons because before the amendments to earlier laws, it was possible that even the judges were making progress when they were members of the State Judiciary Council, so it was seen that it was actually wrong and that part was corrected. And now we have an association that counts over a thousand members and in the running process has a very large potential for influence on people who will be elected. We know that the State Judiciary Council consists of 7 judges, two representatives from the Parliament and two deans of law schools, but the fact that some decisions in the State Judiciary Council were not correct or not properly accepted by the profession or by the public, and we had a lot of such situations, then such decisions should be clearly seen through the fact that most of the 11 members of the State Judicial Council are just being made up of judges. And if you allow someone who is head of an association or runs an association that has an impact on the field of associations do not necessarily have their own goals of developing expertise and those which are the primary objectives for quality work of judges, then you can then put it out in associations, lobbying people entering the State Judiciary Council and then actually being influenced by those members of the Management Board or Commissioner on the ground. And there's me from my short experience of working in the State Judiciary Council one big problem, and on the other hand, it's always going to be easy to hit on politics, so say it's the political representatives or I don't know who else. Therefore, the choice of judges, the situation in the judiciary and all the procedural proceedings are actually in the hands of the judges, and the association as an interested group should, in my opinion, be limited precisely through the addition of Article 12, so that, when they act in office on the board of directors, they cannot be run as members of the State Judicial Council and that is a measure which would certainly contribute to a more free composition of the State Judiciary Council of Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88363	I thank my esteemed colleague Lackovic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague of the Anka Dark Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88364	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Lackovic, given your experience, this replica actually refers to the fact that we are all dissatisfied with the work of judges, dissatisfied with the number of pending cases, and we are, in fact, through the amendment of the law and through what we call a mini reform, we are not solving the essence, but form. That means different courts seats and everything else, and still remains the problem that is. I kind of, my experience is that when you go into any reorganisation, you change the pay, you change the memos, part of the case is lost, so it seems to me that the time has come for us to ban at least one law for at least 10 years to change it and try to work in a context that is, because the change and change of form and not the essentials will not solve the problem in which we all participate and we know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88365	I thank my colleague, Dark Taritash. Thanks to the record desk, you could have submitted a replica even though you were wrong about the Rules of Procedure. But, well, we're too late to find out. Here you go, Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88366	Thank you. So, colleague Dark Taritash, the situation is very clear and simple. In 1997, by entering the European Union, Austria fully digitised its communication within the judicial system. So today we have opportunities for this, but we did not simply create adequate elements and processes that would allow it. Here, only now do we have an example of the Bjelovar County Court that will have digital communication for the first time. So imagine what step back the entire judicial system is doing and it is clear that it cannot then be effective and it must clearly go one step at a time when all communication and business of courts and with parties in all kinds of cases will certainly not be necessary to change the board. And as long as that's not the case, then you have to be present physically on the ground where you really need it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88367	I thank Mr. Lackovic for his reply. The next replica, a respected colleague, Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88368	Thank you very much. Comrade Lackovic, first of all, I agree with this proposal on the composition of the State Judicial Council of members of the Association of Judges if you put it as an amendment I will absolutely support it. I think that would allow one step away and a more impartial better decision-making by not wanting to criticize anyone. And it's a really good idea. I couldn't agree more. Secondly, when you spoke about permanent services, of course they are needed and therefore they need them. However, what I miss about the law and you didn't mention it, and these are the days of judgment. Because you have a whole range of areas where there is no need for permanent court presence, but the coming of a judge once a month or once a week where all the cases from that area would be done on the one hand would give citizens better access to the court, and on the other hand would rationalise their business and allow for the rest of the time to do something else. So that's what I miss about the proposal, and you didn't mention it when you spoke.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88369	I thank my esteemed colleague Milenić. The answer to my colleague, Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88370	I thank my colleague Milenić. So, I fully support everything you've said. So fateful days are also one of the elements that should be used, as well as monitoring the full work of courts, individual judges, all of which is primarily the higher degree of digitisation and facilitating access. So these fateful days are, in fact, a measure that allows in favor of that user of the court, and I support such measures, and I believe that the minister will use them where necessary and where possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88371	I thank my colleague Lackovic for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88372	Thank you. From our closer history one sentence when we are already closer to history, one sentence when we are already on courts has entered anthology, and it has read – I confess only to the court of my party or something like that. It seems to me in one part of the proposal, therefore, that the court can also get by party line or that at least it can be lost on the party line that is now a matter of impression. I applied for this debate in order to draw attention once again to the fact that Trogir will be left without court for a long time and that, in that sense, together with my colleague, Alfirev, I have submitted an amendment to establish a municipal court in Trogir for the municipality of Marina, Okrug, Seget and the town of Trogir. Therefore, the representative bodies of the units all four units of local self-government in power are different parties or most or independent lists, have officially asked the Ministry of Justice to detain the Trogir Court, while the new organisation is that these units of local self-government cover the Municipal Court in Split. The municipal court in Split is otherwise located in the area of the former Vojarna Dračevac, which is extremely poorly connected to Split and its surroundings. The other day it was best demonstrated and the mayor of Trogir himself, Mr Bilic, who was in one video that I would have if it were a business permit, but as the Committee on the Constitution said that this was not a business permit so that I did not risk the warning and I do not have a very technical opportunity to do it, he tried to illustrate what it looked like in the peach. So it was a real little adventure in the area of Dračevac – Trogir – Dračevac when he started regularly in the morning at 6,40. 37 to Solina, there was supposed to be a bus for, 5A for Dračevac but being due to traffic jam, and the summer was so much more common there, and there were some works, that waiting extended to two hours, and then the work in the court was done for exactly 20 minutes and followed by a long-term return to Trogir. So it took 6 hours for the court in Split, for 48.4 km, cost up to 45 kuna and another 4,430 steps on foot if I understood correctly. Of course, as a representative in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament or 7th Parliament, the one since 2008-2011 already started rationalising the courts, I think Mr. Bošnjakovic was a state secretary or minister of justice. And that was the topic in the HDZ ranks at the time, for example, the mayor of Vrgorca, as a member of HDZ, did not vote to abolish the court in Vrgorec, whose jurisdiction was transferred to the court in Metkovic, so there was a little crossover in the county border. And then there was another so-called. reforms to convince us every time that it will actually remain the same. Now, Mr. Bačić Ante has said that from chance, there will be no court will be a permanent service, so what is actually changing. Therefore, I call on the Government to reconsider the detention of the Municipal Court in Trogir for the territory of the former Municipality of Trogir and to accept our amendment in view of these arguments because if the mayor had to suffer for 6 hours, and he is so relatively young in good years and relatively young that only ordinary citizens of a little older age who are not always of this new electronic and other communication means that they will only manage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88373	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88374	Thank you very much. Well, here I am going to look back at this part of the final bill on court seats. I think that's what the minister assumes I'm going to talk about. In fact, I'm in favour of having our County Court returned to Požeg. We know how he left, we know why he left, we know who gave him a little finger and left his whole hand. We will not be able to reconcile in Pozega and those people who support me will also not be able to reconcile until our judgment is returned to us. Why? Well for historical and traditional reasons, for spatial and natural, for functional and economic reasons. When I say historically and traditionally, then I'd like to say that we have a basis in the centuries-old action of our court and the hot jurisprudence spirit that survived all the sultans, who survived a dozen emperors and kings, survived both the Führer and the chiefs and the marshals and President Tudjman and the Pater family of what we called the father of Sanader, but our County Court fell in 2010. We can't deal with that. When I say spatially and naturally, then it has been concluded long ago, determined exactly how natural moments therefore, and the area surrounded by mountains, therefore, one closed whole, outside the main communication flows, road, rail, river, outside and near here and this Schengen which is extremely important that both the court and all the penal institutions be distant. So all the way to the functional and the penals that are particularly important, because we in Požega have both juvenile prison and both female and semi-open male and penitentiary and educational institutions and research institutes and where they took our court and where they moved, they have absolutely nothing. They don't even have quality space for the county court. And now that we're going over to that economic part, then we have to say that they've been here extremely well so far, I'm not going to talk now in the last month because everything is a mile away from how far we have distance from the building of a functional and quality court we now have 50 kilometers away from all these penitentiary facilities to the county court's headquarters and there were constant rides on that route of Požega-Slavonski Brod and it's known what the costs were, it's known how much they were at the end and the risks. And we think we need it back. I also welcome what you ministers are now, I think that by regulation you went because the higher permanent courts are not in the law, that you went on to make it that, that judges are hot only going extremely now boating and doing their job in the building of Požega Court. But that's what you know, it can change tomorrow, and by regulation you can change that, and we're out of court. So we're asking that a court that has all the conditions and that had to go back to where it was and the permanent service could be in the ship and anywhere else. I know you might say there's no job for either of us, but give us back our seat where it was. And I won't be longer because I know there won't be much use, I know you won't change that position for now, but I welcome what you've changed and what you've seen these great costs that have been, not functionality when of the 13 judges of the county court now based in Ship 11 is Požezana, one judge from the Parish and only 2 are from Slavonski Brod. And logic and that one says that we should have that court in Pozega because the boat never had one. No, well, what's there. Mine was to appeal this time for that court to go back to where it belongs. I also welcome this, I repeat this once again, to make it easier, not to have so many trips because we had until yesterday, we have judges, officials, detainees and prisoners every day in the boat and back driving along and across which is really waste and money and energy and people. But no matter what I say hello, I will be abstentioned in passing this law. I can't, I won't be against it because it's clear that you've seen that this isn't good and that it can be better and that we're going back to where we belong, but I'm going to be restrained because I can't raise my hand for until we get my court in Požega where we've had a place, where we've had that judicial spirit since the 14th century. That's how much I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88375	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ronka. Replicated colleague Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88376	Thank you very much. My colleague, Ronko, and before in our time of government, you've demanded the same thing, and I've been fiercely against it and I'm against it in principle. However, when I see that the courts are returning to some kind of Kutin, Crikvenica, that a trade is being established in Dubrovnik, so why don't we put the county in Požega. So I think Croatia should go with a measure of fewer courts. But if he deviates from the criteria and if the courts go back, then all that you have stated has a complete justification for the court being in Požega. Because there's no real job for a county court in Slavonski Brod or those in Požega. If we already have it in Slavonski Brod, it can be in Požega as we now establish some courts for which there is also no reason to be. The same goes for Sinj. I don't need it for me, but if it's found there, let's go to Sinju. If I can get the Councils, so can Sinj. Here, so in that sense, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88377	I thank my colleague Milenić. Answer, colleague Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88378	So in that sense, my colleague said that we weren't even up for his term when the minister did it, yeah, I'm terribly sorry, I even went with the constitutional suit, it didn't work out, but here's the good thing, here's the buddy now realized that maybe we needed it, he realized that maybe we should have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88379	Okay. I'd like to thank my colleague Ronka. We'll see if the minister understands. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88380	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers and state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's what we said today about these three bill proposals. I would say, in conclusion, that this mini judicial reform has really introduced some additional rationalisation and that time will certainly valorise the effects and that after a certain period of time we will actually see the real effects of this. I think we've taken a step forward and the proposals are good. What I would just briefly say right now, and I think that's what we touched about and in our first reading, it's about the framework criteria for the work of judges. Under the provisions of the applicable Law on Courts, the framework criteria for the work of judges shall be adopted by the Minister at the proposal of the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. What is my thinking is that framework criteria should be proposed by the Minister and brought with the prior opinion of the General Court of the Republic of Croatia. Such an opinion is also based on the fact that the practice so far has also shown that the existing way of adopting criteria for the work of judges is not satisfactory, too, we see that there is an inadequate evaluation of the judicial reason. Therefore, for these reasons, I will propose 2 amendments, related to articles that regulate framework criteria, so I ask you to consider this, because I believe that the Minister of Justice should indeed be that person, who also proposes and brings framework criteria for the work of judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88381	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, the final word of the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88382	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues, during the debate we have said individually on behalf of this club, that we will make amendments, hopefully if you have the courage to read and accept them, because simply, when we observe, so there are a number of questions, when we talk about court seats, why, for example. in a Crikvenica smaller than Vodice, there's a former mayor, why the Municipal Court in Crikvenica and not in Vodice? Crikvenicas are less than the town of Vodice, I speak for example. So without the criteria you've brought this, this has been isolated, without, of course, mentioning the Dalmatian Zagora again, the Drinjska end, the Knin end, the Cetina end, the Imotski end, the Vrgora end, have no municipal court, and Crikvenica has, now what are the criteria, I don't know. It's very simple, of course, that you wrote under pressure, I'm sorry that you had to, that you didn't see, the whole whole of it, mostly when I'm talking about the Dalmatian Zagora, I'm saying that a number of people from Kamionski will have to go to Split, that's 100 km from the top area to Split, and there's no public transportation, with the historical building of the court in Sinj municipality, in the centre of Dalmatia, which has 50,000 inhabitants, which is larger than numerous counties, from Međimurje County, I'm sorry that you didn't see in this aspect, the building was in 1875 during Austria, Emperor Franjo Josip opened. We had 12 million kn investments in 2002. We have all the conditions in that court, however, the fact that you were in Sinj, taking pictures, taking pictures with your party colleagues in Sinj, I'm glad you were in Sinj, I wish you'd rang, so let's talk, it was all cryo and in a hurry, lipe photos on the portals. However, the fact that even after the meeting that I organised with all the commissioners and mayors, Parliament's representative, Mr. Šipič, who is also agreed to read the conclusion that you saw, you received that information. The county's representative is the mayor for the court in Sinj as the centre of Dalmatia Zagor, unfortunately, we did not get it and I will give the amendment, expects, that colleagues from that area, MPs support it, because I do not believe that those who were advocates, that the direct need and necessary need to stop the court in Sinj, the municipal one, that they will now be against, therefore, I expect you to think again, that the Dalmatian Zagora is a huge area of 36 cities and municipalities and that we have nothing in this area. Unfortunately, this Dalmatian Zagora is divided into all issues, in 2 counties, Sibenik Kninska, Split Dalmatian, it is a vast area from Neretva to Krka and simply shutting down the insinuations, such as now the municipal court in Sinj, as the centre, I repeat the Dalmatian Zagora, we bring an anti-demographic, one centralist law, which continues to centralise power, and you are not decentralisation, and you are in the first reading, I will mention, you have referred to us as a legislator, a legislative body, to us parliamentary representatives, that you are proposing this law because of the burden of large systems such as the municipal court in Zagreb and Split. So you went to Split 1, Split 2 and you saw that there was nothing out of it and now you're back to Split. ... What's the matter? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the largest county of Split Dalmatian and Dalmatia, mainly Dalmatia Zagora, is forgotten, these border areas, with our part here in Herzegovina and Bosnia, where they are also beyond those borders are Croats, who are moving out. This is another law, which sends people away, because simply, these people, who would work judges and employees and lawyers, who would work in that area, would spend that money there, would develop economic and momentary, this is how people and time and money spend, and they don't have, of course, public transportation, so that this law is anti-demographic and indeed here is Sinjska alka and in Knin, on the same day is Sinjska Alka, when the day of the victory is the day of the Storm, which we will celebrate in Knin. Then come all the way to the Alkah in Sinj, but I don't know how you'll feel, when you're shutting down every alku in these historic parts, the parts that were a waste of human potentials, rich in history, but in this way, there remains an empty space. I expect you ministers to look at these amendments in the interest of the people in this area, to accept these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88383	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. On behalf of the promoter, final word, Honored Minister, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88384	Dear MPs and MPs, let me just have a few final thoughts regarding the debate that was here and to read about a few of the most important questions. The question was that this is going through the whole discussion of centralization or decentralisation. I must say that we are now working on strengthening these laws, strengthening permanent services outside the headquarters. And so it's about decentralisation. Again, those fears that were shown that we were going to return the wheel, because we used to live in a system where we had a lot of tiny, tiny dishes, there were them in 2008. 108. They were courts where there were 4, 5 judges, three judges. According to such courts, specialization was impossible. They were courts that were ineffective and that's why we actually brought them together, and we were doing bigger units within which it was possible to carry out specialization and specialization led to greater expertise, better, faster treatment and less chances in the appeal procedure to move decisions. The second round was, we came to 24 municipal courts and 22 misdemeanors. What we're doing right now, we're still reducing and we're still actually going to a smaller number of courts, we're bringing together the offenders, so we're also municipal, and we're coming from 34. But as we will get in the system and the criminal judges, it opened up the possibility for us to return to certain places the courts that were, what they were saying from Vinkovac, from Đakov, Kutina, the Church where we had the criteria that we stated in the explanation, that is also a particular area, the width of the area, the traffic connection, the number of cases, the number of judges. And here it was, here's Representative Bulj talking about the court in Sinj. We will not lose the court here, we strengthen our regular service as we do everywhere in all areas and in Sinj we strengthen our regular ministry. So we look and make sure that people just don't travel, but we'll get organized, and we'll send these judges. Where we don't have a case we can't actually, where we don't have a case we can't set up courts because simply when there's no case, there's no need for them. Also an important issue opened in this debate, the High Criminal Court. The High Criminal Court is actually in our hands with the Criminal Procedure Act, but we are not going in this step to some broad High Criminal Court that would decide on complaints and municipal and county courts because at that time it would be one mega court of 50, 60 judges where we would actually fully staff the potential of county courts I would say questionable. And we're only going here to that High Penalty who's going to settle complaints against the judgments of the county courts, and these are the most difficult cases, so where the sentence of more than 12 years has been prevented. And we have, in fact, one solution in the system right now, which, in my opinion, is no good, and that is that the Supreme Court is at the same time a court of appeal and, at the same time, a court that decides by means of extraordinary legal remedies on its own judgments. It's unsustainable to me, and it just doesn't seem right to me, and that's why I think this interstep of the High Court of Penalty is going to be welcome and it's going to make it quite even. As far as the State Judiciary Council was concerned, it was here that we spoke of these changes in the structure and composition of the State Judiciary Council, where we increased the number of judges of the county courts compared to the municipalities and that we determined that everyone within our circle chose their representatives, that we violated these democratic processes. Now, here I'm just saying, the State Judiciary Council is a body that cares about the appointment of judges on strict responsibility, so what makes those key decisions and elections for the State Judiciary Council are not how to say elections for judicial self-government or anything like that but here's our view, we believe that this composition and this structure of the State Judiciary Council will give a better, better answer to these tasks that are ahead of them. And as for this court in Split, it is a change compared to the first reading, we have taken the view that we leave it to mean specialized, infringing in Split which is also a large area but Split is again reducing for that area of Makarska and Imotski, so that we will relax it and it will still be this smaller than it was imagined. So here are all the amendments that come, of course, we'll analyse, consider and see if it's acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88385	I thank the Honorable Mr. Minister for this final word. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88386	Thank you, Vice President. So, dear Minister Bošnjakovic, I will say a few words again today about what I was talking about and when we spoke, when we first talked about the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Seats of Courts. In that case, you also agreed to strengthen the positive entrepreneurial climate and to bring licenses closer to our economies. I consider the permanent service of the Commercial Court in Sibenik necessary and that is the cry of entrepreneurs from Sibenik-Knin County. The figures show that in the last year over 2,000 solutions were dropped, over 2,000 files, almost 300 solutions to the creation of new companies we had and in this year the trend is even bigger. Currently, half of the cases received are in the register, heading towards the Trade Court in Zadar, and we believe that the cases remaining in Sibenik are in an unequal position towards those going to Zadar. Of course, if it is seen that the principles of equality of the party are not violated, that is, the order of resolution then Thank you. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88387	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88388	Well, this very provision of ours means strengthening permanent services that process operations in those items that are related to the area of permanent service that they have to do in permanent service are spoken of in favour of what you say are the demands of the economy. So all that is from the area of Sibenik will be carried out in permanent service so in Sibenik. And I think that's how we're going to contribute actually to strengthening the economy and that we're going to be more at the service of the economy itself. And as for the register, I don't think there should be any problem here because we're electronically connected, so on that side the same thing if something in practice is problematic, we're going to be in these kind of applications of digital technologies, we're going to definitely fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88389	I thank the respected Minister Bošnjakovic. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88390	Ministers, what criteria are that we have a municipal court in Crikvenica that is smaller than Vodice, not Cetitina Krajina or Dalmatia Zagora. What are the criteria? Why are you punishing us? Who has given you the right to punish us, which is the criterion that in Crikvenica is smaller than Vodice, and the Dalmatian Zagora, which has 130 thousand inhabitants, which is, people move out, that there is no court. You're talking, it'll be a permanent court. Permanent court and municipal court are not the same. It's closed four hours ago. People come, people have to travel hundreds of miles. You're punishing us. You come to Alka, you've been to Sinj recently. We're pleased to see you as a guest. But expect the people to have to talk. We have to fight. I expect you to respect this amendment. If you respect this amendment, I will raise my hand for this. Why are you punishing us? Explain why you punish Dalmatinska Zagora and what are the criteria that Crikvenica, which is smaller than Vodice, has a municipal court, and the Dalmatian Zagora has no municipal court. Please tell us why you're punishing us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88391	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88392	My friend Bulj, no one's punishing anyone here. You still have regular service in Sinj and now you have four judges there. And those four judges have the number of cases. The court under 10 judges can't really specialize, the judges can't carry out a trial in different branches of law and we have a very, very bad court. One of the criteria was both the number of judges and the number of cases and the area. For example, the Holy One was mentioned. Well it's an area of over 200 thousand people, so on that side here, indeed wherever there's a reason, we went to the establishment of a new court, but the permanent service outside the court seat will completely satisfy the citizens of that area.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88393	I thank the respected Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Willibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88394	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Bošnjakovic, why the judicial inspection in the Republic of Croatia has only 6 judicial inspectors, is at least the answer given by your sector for the establishment of the judiciary or whatever its name is. How can you expect that if we have other inspections, from sanitary to I don't know, construction, which have hundreds and thousands of people, how can you expect 6 inspectors to control all courts and state lawyers or state attorneys, as prescribed by the laws in question in the Republic of Croatia. And when it's going to increase to some excess number of judicial inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88395	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88396	Here's colleague Sincic, just by amending these laws, we're creating conditions to increase the number of people in the judicial inspection. So far there have been criteria that they can only be judges, and given the content and scope of the inspection we now prescribe that it can be even wider.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88397	I thank you for your response to Minister Bošnjakovic. Next replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, well, I support all these three laws, and I believe that by making these amendments and supplementing the law, we are really going to get to the point that judges have quality working conditions. That's what it takes and for judges to be chosen by those people who have the best results. I would therefore support what my colleague Jelkovac said, I believe that you will consider this, and I particularly support the fact that in the Law on the State Judicial Council, you have provided for one provision which requires the appointment of judges to be completed within 6 months of the publication of the competition for the appointment of judges, so that what we have here and at this point is no longer happening, and that one competition lasts more than 2.5 years, as is the case with the High Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88399	Thank you, dear colleague Lukacic. Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88400	Dear colleague Lukačić, we are aware of this problem that these competitions are taking a very long time and for that time there is actually no judge to judge. There's a lot of stuff going on. Here, we have now prescribed, all deadlines in the appointment process have been shortened and we believe that the six-month period is quite enough for all the appointments to be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88401	I thank you for your response to Minister Bošnjakovic. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88402	Thank you very much. Minister, may you at the end of this debate be able to answer my question, how is it that all those who have become rich in conversion and privatisation manage to escape from the Republic of Croatia before the verdict becomes powerful or passed. We have Mr. Mamic's case that escaped to Bosnia, we had before Mr. Glavas' case, we have Mr. Todorovic's case, we have Mr. Kutl's case, Mr. Gucci's case. Here, just yesterday, as I understand it, she was able to extradite Mrs. Darinka Kricka, who devastated the even-lived MTC. It means whether your Ministry allows them to leave or simply give them information in time for them to pick things up. So how to avoid those people who are accused of embezzlement being measured by hundreds of millions of kunas being made available to the Croatian judiciary and then after the trial is completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88403	Thank you, dear fellow Bunjac. You need to talk about the subject under the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The precautionary measure that you have now mentioned is not in the ministry's jurisdiction but in the authority of the DORH, the law of persecution, so please stick to the subject you will discuss in the future. Here's Minister Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Look, I'm neither happy nor happy with the state of case resolution and sanctioning everything that happened in privatisation and conversion. But we've changed and the Constitution has changed both the laws and unfortunately, things happen that haven't been processed much. But a certain number of them have been processed, a certain number has been sanctioned. But on this part, I have to repeat the vice president, it's really not in my jurisdiction that I can determine something to be one way or the other. Your question is broader and actually addressed to a lot of organs and to a lot and to a lot of bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88405	I would like to thank Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply, the next replica, dear colleague Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88406	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Bošnjković, this rationalization of the courts, which you said you had a lot of courts, so you cut down a bit, I think it's okay and you're going one good way to lay firm foundations for the courts. Here,... Vukovar Sremska County, where the court went to Vukovar during the SDP and you returned it and I thank you for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You've reduced the cost of people coming to court and lawyers and judges themselves. I think it's a good thing, and here, as far as I've been listening to you, you've increased the number of county judges, so they're going to be more efficient, of course, someone is going to be unhappy with what it is, and you can't do everyone a favor, and what you did in Vukovar Srem County, I think that's good and that it should've been, you shouldn't have actually left Vinkovac, which is already... A year there, but here's what happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88407	Thank you, dear fellow Misic, for your response, Minister Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88408	Thank you very much. We re-established courts in certain areas, where we had conditions for that, so where there are enough cases, where there are sufficient numbers of judges, when a criminal court is joined, covers a particular larger area and there was reason to return the court. One of these solutions is the Vinkovci, the Vinkovci are a fairly large area and it is a court that will have more than 10 judges and where we will have possible specialization and therefore, as in all these other courts, which we have re-established, we have stuck to these very criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88409	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Zdravko Ronko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88410	Thank you very much. So once again, it's not a rationalization problem, I support rationalization, and I'm always in favour. But I'm just pushing for him to come back kidnapped or say taken away, for no logical reason whatsoever. On the contrary, I think it's taken away from the logic of reason. And about, the former minister, he understood that, but the late Marco is coming to Kosovo, so please don't be late, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88411	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Ronko, Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88412	I know about the mood and the status of this court in Požega, which is connected to the County Court in Brod, but when I say, now, the number, this County Court in Brod, which covers both Požeg and Brod, we have 20 criminal cases on the annual level. Now to separate it into two courts, you were the mayor, you, me, when we were doing that first rationalization of the network, so when I came and the mayors told us, don't take the court, because we're losing the status of the city and so on. But I said, you won't be building kindergartens where you have no idea, you follow a few kids where there's a resonance, but here's a permanent service, I think it covers needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88413	I thank Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. With this, we've exhausted all the replicas, I'm concluding the debate, we're going to vote on this point, these three points when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88414	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 298th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia but the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee for Legislatives, MP Marija Jelkovac, MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists and MP Miro Bulj. The review of the amendment has been sent to you by electronic means. Please, once again, Secretary of State Kristian Turkalj's position on the amendments submitted. Let's go first to Amendment No. 1. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88415	Therefore, in relation to the amendment of the Association of Independent Lists of Representatives related to Article 20, The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept it. It is therefore that the Law on Courts provides for the general duty of professional training of the President of the Courts and the binding of the Presidents of the Courts that within 6 months of the entry into office, training is actually something that we bind to them, which is not in their capacity to organise training because it is the jurisdiction of the judicial academy. So we have a general obligation that they must pass and at the judicial academy and the minister's rule will regulate dynamics and training so that the same purpose can be achieved in that way. So the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88416	It's obvious, fellow Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88417	Respected in the bill of law that you have given, it is not an obligation but an opportunity. Our amendment on your bill is that this education is mandatory. It means that after the appointment, after 6 months after the appointment, the President of the Court is obliged to complete a professional training programme for the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration because, while he was a judge, he did not have to know that when he became President of the Court, he should also know that he is obliged to continue to train himself to carry out the same tasks. I ask you to reconsider because if we want our courts to do the job in quality, then the same court presidents need to, have an obligation, have an obligation to perfect themselves in these affairs. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88418	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment No. 2nd of the same club of representatives on Article 22.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88419	So the amendment is not accepted by the government. The point here is that we wanted to strengthen independence, further justice, or courts. And it has been found that the minister will not appoint judges who are authorized to carry out the affairs of the judicial administration except exceptionally when new courts are created, meaning courts in the establishment. We thought that much for the functioning of the courts would be better to rule out who assumes the duties of the performer in advance to be clear and there is no instability in the functioning of the judiciary. So the government does not accept this proposal, the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88420	Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88421	Unfortunately, I can't agree with the motionary. Unfortunately, there's a decentralisation going on where it shouldn't be carried out. So by our amendment, we suggest that the role of the Ministry of Justice in situations that shouldn't be happening and these situations are that the President of the Court has not been elected, that someone should do the job. We have suggested that the Ministry of Justice continue to be as corrective as it was today, to be corrective, to be the lever that will know how to push between candidates and be the lever that will be able to define in this transition period who is the one who is good at that time, during that period, to be a temporary deputy or acting official. To change the role of the Ministry of Justice who can only do so professionally at that time, professionally drag it out, give a quality proposal, change it rather than actually change situations that can lead to a period without the President of the Court, I think it's wrong. Change situations that you can lead to the fact that there is no President of the Court. Do not touch the role of the Ministry of Justice, which in these cases is your only professional correction. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88422	Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 3rd of the same club of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88423	It means the amendment to the final draft law of Article 32. The Club of the Representatives of the Independent Lists of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept because it does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which determines in Article 123 when the judicial duty relating to the termination of the judicial duties of the President of the Supreme Court ceases. It particularly points out that the completion of 70 years of life in accordance with the constitutional decision is for discharge of judicial duties, not for termination. Therefore, the Government does not accept that amendment. It's obvious, fellow Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88424	It's obvious, fellow Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88425	As for this amendment and for the next amendment, we are asking for a model system for the State's Attorney's Office. So, that the president of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia is being resolved as in similar situations as the attorney general, we don't see what the difference is. We don't see why the chief state attorney would settle at a time when he's being charged, and on the other hand, the Supreme Court president doesn't need to be resolved. Now imagine a situation where the President of the Supreme Court, against whom the indictment has been brought, close to noon ends up in the USKOK, and shortly afterwards talking to his fellow judges and trying to bring justice. It's not acceptable for us. So, coordinate, level the rules, as you've brought to the Attorney General, so be it for the President of the Supreme Court, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88426	Let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment did not receive the required no. votes. Now let's go to Amendment No. Four respected MPs of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88427	The Government of the Republic does not accept this amendment for the same reasons, because it does not comply with the Constitution. 123. The Constitution of the And for the reasons suggested that the reason to be resolved, especially a serious violation of the code of judicial ethics, was not defined anywhere by law, so it would violate the principle of legality and determination. So the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88428	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88429	Thank you very much. In the judicial system and under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, all citizens must be equal. Which is why the State's Attorney's office, when the charges are filed, ceases its duty and the Supreme Court does not. Why does someone have to be protected like a bear? Is that equality? So you're breaking this law of the Constitution if you don't accept this amendment. You protect individuals within the judicial authority, which is the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia where citizens of the Republic consider it the most corrupt and the worst system. That's why the young leave. Which is why the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney in this case, when the indictment is filed, must resign, his duty shall cease, and the Supreme Court shall not, the Supreme Judge. What's the reason? Here's an explanation for our people, the public, the general public. It's funny, of course, that it's funny, that the Supreme Judge, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, that the Supreme Judge, when he's accused, is charged with not stopping his duty, and in other bodies, he's out of office. The simple question of fellow MPs, which is why, Supreme Judges, we protect them, as face bears, why they are not in the same status as other citizens... I'm asking for a vote, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the speaker, the noise in the headphones.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88430	Let us also vote on this amendment, which the government does not accept. The amendment didn't get needed no. votes. We're going to Amendment 5 of the Independent List Bridges Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88431	Therefore, the above amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88432	Please show off, here you go, colleague Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88433	In its first draft, the Ministry of Justice accepted the idea of defining a better system of advisers in court, that it be better arranged, that the profession be raised on a scale of relevance. And then there was a clear distinction, which the counselor does, which does the senior advisor, which is done by the consultant specialist. And I don't know, for what reasons, in the second reading of the Ministry of Justice, pulls it back, takes a step back, you have absolutely nothing more defined about judicial advisors, and on the other hand, these people, these younger people, when they carry your job, their salary is below 6,000 kn, instead of investing in a younger chamber that will one day carry your staff, which will allow you both education and complexity of jobs, can help them to one day have real quality and judges and presidents of courts, you have decided to step backwards. I don't think that's good for the functioning of courts, for solving cases, at all levels of courts. I appeal to you, think again, this is not good for the future of courts, for helping people who are waiting for a solution to their cases, and Croatia is obviously famous for being able to sue, you can wait, and it will end most likely in old age because we do not have the possibility. We have a possibility, we have people, but obviously you don't recognize the important ones of the same people who are in your courts today, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88434	Let us vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. He didn't get the needed no. votes, so let's now go to Amendment six of Mira Bulj's MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88435	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88436	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88437	Thank you very much. Otherwise, when discussing laws and legality, the Constitution needs to be followed. All citizens must be equal before the Constitution. Because you do not adhere to the Constitution, but the Ministry of Justice has given up this amendment because fellow MPs have no intention of supporting the legality and constitutionality of all to be the same before the law. I'm giving up the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88438	Thank you very much. Then we won't vote. Let's go to Amendment No. The 7th representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88439	Subject amendment The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88440	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Let's go to Amendment No. 8. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88441	That amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88442	For the same reasons as what amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88443	Wait a minute. Like this amendment that applied to this article, just a second, a second. The consultants, therefore, are concerned that we wanted to expand the possibility of performing the affairs of judicial advisers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88444	Here's a colleague of Petrov's, obvious. ... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88445	No, I understand. It's just that I can't hear the good answer to the explanation, but I'll tell you again. If for the same reason then for the same reason my amendment. You have a level of complexity of the subject. You have a level of court advisors. Instead of providing judges with quality help, to allow citizens to get their cases resolved faster, rather than going into old age, you are going back a step. In the first draft of the Law, you accept the idea that there is a level of judicial advisors, that there is the possibility of education, of education, of creating a quality future fit for courts, and now you're going back. There is no complexity of the case, there is no possibility of disseminating judicial advisors, to allow them to be further educated. What kind of message is that to the citizens? What can citizens expect from courts at that time? Just send complaints, just support court proceedings, whatever it takes, wait 10, 12, 15 years, wait forever. Can anyone, in front of the ruling majority, explain to me why you were doing well in the first draft of the Law and then retired. Who pushed you? Who doesn't answer that the courts in Croatia work better? That's all I care about. In the first draft you did right, in the second draft you went back. Croatian citizens deserve quality legislation and justice. They deserve high-quality dishes, they deserve to be dealt with. With your bill of law, we will again have items that They're going into obsolescence. [[/Intruder Jandroković: Thank you. Comrade Petrov, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88446	Are you asking for a vote? ... Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. [[You can't hear it.]] I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Let's go to Amendment No. 9 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88447	So, about the amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88448	Please, Secretary of State, just speak louder in the microphone. You can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88449	Wait a minute. They got me wrong, no. Just a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88450	Here you go. [[Intruder Bull: We can also ask for a break.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88451	The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most because it concerns the same issue, so as we said, we did not define a clear distinction between powers just to raise the efficiency of the judicial system. Otherwise, consultants would be limited to a very narrow circle of jobs that they could do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88452	Obviously, here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88453	I thank the Secretary of State for giving us the chance even though this amendment honestly does not exist. We have already explained Amendment 5, 6, Mr. Bulj spoke for the third time, but thank you for the new two minutes I will use you to warn you of the same. It was branched out in the first draft of the Law which a counselor does, which is done by a senior advisor, which is done by a consultant specialist. In the second reading, the Ministry of Justice erases it, does not define what judicial advisers are doing, on whose back lies most of the work and responsibility in the judicial system. The only news, according to the secretary of state, is the introduction of a senior consultant who has, watch this, equal powers as other advisers. But please define to me what a senior consultant specializes in doing the same things as a court counselor. I mean, you could do anything, you don't need to make makeup, you don't need makeup. If a consultant can do the same as a court counselor, then we don't need a consultant specialist. I've had enough court counsellors, at least that's what logic tells me. You don't need makeup from the Justice Department. Help the citizens. You will help them in a way to distinguish what a court counselor does, which is done by a senior advisor, which is done by a consultant specialist. You will help them in a way that defines the complexity of the case, that they can have the opportunity to educate and that after that citizens can expect that their cases in the courts will be resolved, that they will not need an average of 10 years. Croatia is well-known for how long court disputes last for us and Croatian citizens have no right to justice, and should have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88454	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. Wait a minute. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Comrade Bulj, I beg you, there are two more amendments, just to finish. ... All right, come on, come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88455	Thank you very much, President. Here's because we see that the secretary of state has been executed in this judicial reform, as it has been repeated to cope, we're looking for two minutes, because obviously we've exposed you. This is not a reform, the reform was offered by the Most Independent Lists, this is where the interests of who knows who and who knows who is protecting him are hidden. In order to reconcile the agreement at the club, to know how to proceed, to even discuss something where the secretary of state is executed and no longer knows what amendment he's talking about and what law he's talking about and what he's talking about and what the public saw, we're looking for a two-minute break to consult within the club. Ten minutes to consult inside the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88456	Okay, okay, you're getting a break, of course. We'll continue in 10.41 minutes. It's 10.31 p.m. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so we can continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.41 HOURS]] Now I'm asking the Secretary of State to take a seat at the pay phone. We're going to Amendment 10, Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88458	Dear MPs, I apologise this a little earlier, the above-mentioned amendment of the Legislative Committee is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88459	It becomes an integral part of the law. We are now going to amendment number 11 of the representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88460	By way of derogation from paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88461	That's what I'm supposed to say. It's becoming an integral part of the law. Thank you very much, Secretary of State. This is what we came to the end of the amendment. Now we're going to approach the vote. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 76 for, 7 abstentions and 18 votes against, have passed a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. Otherwise, the adoption of this law required a majority of all MPs, i.e. 76.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88740	We move to the following items of the agenda, the Committee on Justice, on the basis of Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, proposes that the following three points be held in a united debate, these are: - Final proposal of the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, second reading, P.Z. No. 297 - Final proposal of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 299. - Final proposal of the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 302 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in relation to Art. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Is there anyone to oppose a united debate based on the proposal of the Justice Committee? No, thank you. I find that we have united the debate over these three points of the agenda. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. The amendment may be submitted by the end of the debate, based on Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the relevant Committee on Law and by the relevant Committee on Justice. I call on the Honorable Minister of Justice, Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic, to give us an additional explanation of these bill proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88741	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here it is, what could be said for the most part about these three laws, in some way, that it has been mirrored for the area of the State's Attorney's Office, we can actually say that such changes are reflected in the State's Attorney's Office, so that there are some important differences in this matter both in the courts and in the State Judiciary Council, and these changes are in principle and related to the State's Attorney's Office, for the State's Attorney's Council. What's important so far we've had under the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, we've had provisions that regulate the State's Attorney's Council, we're actually doing it now, we're doing 2 laws, so the Law on State's Attorney's Office and the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, where we want to give even more importance to the function actually and to all those powers that the State's Attorney's Council has. In this context, we also better regulate, as with the Law on Courts, better regulate the way and procedure of electing the President of the Supreme Court here, better regulate the way in which the main state attorney is actually elected, where we prescribe, however, that the State Attorney's Council is calling for candidates who are interested in applying, who have to submit a programme of work on which the Government will then propose to the Croatian Assembly means candidate. In addition, it is important that we also want to strengthen the European right component here, as we are in the courts, to set up departments here in the national attorney's offices, so we will appoint a contact of persons who will actually follow the practice of the EU Court of Human Rights, the European Court of Human Rights and who will follow the law of the EU and will transfer it within the framework of the institutions in which they are actually defined as these contacts, which are very important in fact because we need to reiterate that we are no longer a separate legal entity and a separate legal system than we are acting under the EU legal system. Also, as regards the appointment of state lawyers, the changes we have incorporated into the Law on the State Judicial Council, we are also installing this into the Law on the State's Attorney's Council, we believe that those elements are the elements on which the assessment is carried out that they are much clearer and that they are much better than they have been so far. We're also giving stricter conditions for higher-grade promotion by saying in the state's attorney's office, what's been an insight for 10 years now we're raising to 12 years. Also, property cards, as will be held for judges within the State Judicial Council, will be held here under the State Attorney's Council and the status of property cards and all things will be the same as for our officials. In addition to everything we are introducing, we do not have so many changes in the national attorneys themselves on the ground, we are introducing only these new three state attorneys in Pazin, Metkovic and Vinkovci, also according to the criteria and number of cases and the number of state lawyers and therefore we do not have any more significant changes than we had in the Court Act. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88742	I thank the respected minister, Drazen Bošnjakovic. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88743	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. In the first reading, when it comes to the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Attorney's Office, it was note that why these seats do not correspond in a certain way to the Court's seats, you rejected the remark. What's the reason? Why isn't that so? Why is it not possible because even in the first reading and now it seems to me that it would be more logical, that maybe it would be more operational and everything else, the explanation wasn't enough for what we have, so I ask you nicely what that reason is?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88744	Thank you. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88745	Dear MPs, we've actually been communicating with the State's Attorney's office. And where they have human resources, where they have a sufficient number of objects, there we went to the establishment of new state's attorney's offices, where it wasn't simply necessary. And it doesn't have to be completely consistent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88746	I thank you for your response to Minister Bošnjakovic. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88747	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Bošnjakovic, on my question, why there are only 6 judicial inspectors, or judicial inspectors, you said that we are changing the law because they must be judges and now they will no longer have to be judges, or if I am not mistaken, they must have the status of county judge. I'll just remind you that in Article 27(3). The State's Attorney's Law writes another category. I quote: "The affairs of a judicial inspector may be carried out by persons who meet the conditions of a deputy county attorney." It is therefore not only those who can be county judges but who can therefore be deputy county attorneys can be inspectors. Still, we only have six of them. How can 6 people control so many and so many hundreds of thousands of disputes, structure and justice? It's just impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88748	Thanks to my colleague Sincic. Minister Bosnjakovic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88749	First of all, judicial inspection doesn't control disputes and cases at all, but they have very limited scope of control. They can control purely material, financial, administrative business. So what you're thinking, I guess, so working in specific cases, it's actually controlled by senior courts and senior state attorneys over this. We are now expanding the category of these people and giving authority to be inspectors tomorrow and those who do not have the status of judges or state attorneys, and that is where we want to get one width.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88750	I thank Minister Bošnjakovic for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88751	Thank you very much, Minister Bosnjakovic. So you're saying that state lawyers are going to have the same status as judges, or that it's going to be publishing their property card, if I understand it, it's a positive shift. But what I'm curious about is how it's possible for lawyers in Croatia to earn 100 times as much as judges. So in all orderly democratic countries judges and lawyers earn roughly the same amount of money, there is no escape of judges in law practice, and in our case this is a common case, in fact many would like to escape and leave that and that work of judges. So it was possible to hand over the lawyers in hand, the bar of attorneys' fees, and now we have cases that lawyers have practically become the richest people in the Republic of Croatia at least if it's to judge by the tax cards or tax returns we read every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88752	Thank you, dear fellow Bunjac. Answer, Minister Bosnjakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88753	It doesn't have to be that way for lawyers to earn more than judges. A large number of your lawyers have been blocked today because they don't actually have to pay the expenses they have. One particular round makes more money, but with them, what's the pay? We know how many judges, what category of courts they belong to, what they pay for, but this doesn't have to be like that. One particular round may earn higher amounts, it must pay taxes, all of which must be clearly transparent, reported to the tax administration but a large number of lawyers who have about 5,000 in the Republic of Croatia, a large number of them are even blocked because they don't actually have enough jobs and don't make the revenues they cover. And otherwise, the tariff is brought to the bar by the attorney's office, but with the consent of the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88754	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are three united laws, the Law on State's Attorney's Office and the Law on the State's Attorney's Council and the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State's Attorney's Office. We made the remarks to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on the State's Attorney's Council exhaustively in the first reading of the public debate, today we want to address some of the most important issues that are being regulated by these laws, which are fundamental issues for strengthening the quality of transparency and objectivity in the State's Attorney's Office. MOST is the only political option in the last 27 years that has offered the opposition full reform of a system. MOST has offered a full reform of the judiciary and these laws will also be discussed in some future in the Croatian Parliament. The proposed amendments set out that the State Attorney's Council sets out candidates for the main state attorney who filed an application for that application to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We have objected to this arrangement, and we believe that the State Attorney's Council should also give an opinion to candidates in view of its function and role in the system. In its draft laws, the MOST so prescribed that the State Attorney's Council lays down candidates who have submitted their application for the application with an opinion on each of the candidates to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. These opinions should be based on the examination of the entire professional career of candidates, of all positive and negative parties that potentially bind themselves to a particular candidate and thus would give public satisfaction and proof that the institutions of this country can function transparently, that people in office are willing to take responsibility and that each should decide for themselves whether they want to be highlighted or, for example, whether they want to. run for head office such as the attorney general or the President of the Supreme Court. It is necessary to strengthen the election mechanism of the main state attorney, to reduce the concentration of power held by the government or the ruling majority in the Parliament from this process. I think the Attorney General, but the President of the Supreme Court should be... The two-thirds majority in the Assembly agree on whose appointment is prescribed for the election of judges of the Constitutional Court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We propose that, in the spirit of objectivity, the election of the most qualitative candidates and the general quality of the procedure for the appointment of the attorney-general, the obligation to give an opinion to candidates by the State's Attorney-General. We have such a system proposed by the candidate for Supreme Court President, and I believe that this should become analogy as much as possible. As for the duration of the term of office of the attorney general, I am also thinking about the idea that the term of office lasts longer than 4 years, e.g. 5 or 6 and that it may be limited to that one term of office, i.e. that the mandate of the attorney general is withdrawn from the cycle of change of power. In this way, as prescribed now, a rule has been created that the main state attorney is changing with the change of government, it is a direct political pressure on the work of a state lawyer but, above all, pressure on those issues in which the DORH works and meets policy. In criminal corruption cases, the duration of the term of office is unfortunately prescribed by the Constitution and constitutional changes are required for such an amendment. But this is not the only sweating where constitutional applications would be needed. I see a big problem in the role of politics on the work of the councils and the State's Attorney's Council and DSV, in the context that two members of both councils are from the ranks of parliamentary representatives. The termination and resolution of the duties of the chief state attorney, the government prescribes reasons for the resolution of the attorney general, in particular concerns the solutions that suggest that the chief state attorney will be resolved not to take measures under its powers to work effectively by the State's attorney if, without a reasonable reason, he does not implement the work programme. If the State's Attorney's Office does not deliver satisfactory work results, perhaps the most incredible choice from all six laws the government proposes. The government that gives itself the right to put pressure on the attorney general in this way and proposes that it can be resolved at any moment by completely indeterminate conditions is a government that seeks totalitarianism in some way. We see this as a big problem and we want to put emphasis on this and appeal that we are not going in this direction, this is a really reckless proposal and we suggest that all of those conditions that are indeterminate, immeasurable and that can serve as a threat to the independent action of the DORH. We also believe that abandoning the power of the justice minister to give an opinion on candidates for the state's attorney in order to further strengthen the independence and independence of the state's attorney's office is a bad solution. We have the same objection on this proposal as on putting the minister's opinion on candidates for the President of the Court. We believe that the Minister's opinion is a control mechanism that is not undesirable. On the contrary, there should be such levers of control that will give yet another perspective in the process of appointing state lawyers. The choice and selection conditions remain the same, and this opinion does not affect the least independence and independence of the DORH guaranteed by the Constitution. Also, what should pay a little more attention to this comment is the regulation of the issue of submitting the report to the Croatian Parliament's Attorney General as a novelty that should stop unacceptable practice so that the work of the DORH is not discussed in the Assembly for three years in a row. We propose to introduce a simple item that reads that the Croatian Parliament will consider the report by the end of the year in which the report was received. Of course, if the practice of breaking the law is continued as we have seen and that it is a perfectly normal phenomenon with the Law on Justice, then this provision will not mean much, but it increases responsibility and that is the item in which we want to invest. It's a question for the DSV, and about the Law on... We feel it is necessary to open the issue of constitutional norms and adapt to the same developments and needs of the judicial system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For us, there is a right to reform that will remove policy from DSV and to achieve the necessary changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The selection procedure for the DAV members is as complicated as for the DSV. We believe that the candidate committees have become inefficient and realistically unnecessary. The candidate committees do not ensure transparency and quality in the election of members, since they act as unnecessary filter candidates before the final election of members. The election of members of the council of state lawyers shall be carried out by the Committee for the Selection of Council members and election committees. The role given to the candidate committees is unnecessary, delaying and complicated procedure, the appointment of members of the DOV, we also have in the DSV. We're proposing to lift the candidate committees. With regard to the reasons for the resolution of the members of the DOV, we have an objection. In fact, it is prescribed that a member of the council will be relieved of his duties before the end of the time he was elected: 1-on his own request 2.- if he is convicted of a criminal offence 3.- if he loses his capacity to carry out his duty on the 4th day of power of the DOV's decision to impose a strict sentence, we propose that he be changed since it is not acceptable for a member of the council to be a member of the council at the same time in criminal proceedings, if, according to this proposal, the State Attorney will be dismissed when he is legally determined by a strong responsibility, then the judicial indictment is sufficient reason to be resolved. Although Article 40 determines that a member of the council will be far away if criminal proceedings for a criminal offence can be brought against him, we consider that the criminal charge is sufficiently compromised by members of the council and the credibility of the institution, and this mechanism we propose that the member be resolved if the indictment is confirmed, however, ensure that no quality, legality of work, transparency and objectivity of the work of the National Attorney's Council is questioned. We believe that the evaluation of the work of the state's attorneys needs to be done much better and connected with the system of progress both in the hierarchy and in the material rights. As far as the evaluation is concerned, we have the same attitude as the courts. MOST advocates full reform in terms of the introduction of a single and continuous system of evaluation of judges' work. As for the procedures for the appointment of deputy state attorneys, the same procedure for the appointment of judges is proposed. We object here with the same comment as the DSV law because objectivity and transparency are not guaranteed. As far as the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Attorney's Office is concerned, we see in this Law that we are being followed by changes in the network of courts, and here we have the same objections as we had on the proposed network of courts. Our network of judicial authorities is fragmented, ineffective, and we are always engaged in the establishment and abolition of new bodies, courts and state attorneys. What's more, like a game and pressure on the local community. The problem of a network of judicial authorities should be seen through organisational mechanisms and the system to be addressed, which will address problems, not which will further encourage them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88756	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88757	Thank you, Chairman. Here, we have today this package of laws that regulate the work of the state's attorney, or... State's attorney's office. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The debate was united as the last time there was a first reading, it was somewhere in small hours or not quite small, but at a time when the public's focus was far below the level it was in the morning. Well, I've already talked several times today about similar topics, so I'm not going to spread or extend too much, I'm just going to say for a start that this is a reform in the literal sense of that word. Reform, or change of form. We change where you can do it and how many of us there are, how we treat each other, but I don't expect this to significantly change anything in the work of the state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia. The picture of the Croatian state's attorneys is generally tragic, I remember when here for 3 years, Mr. Cvitan's Attorney General did not bring a report here to let us know what was going on in the State's Attorney's Office, that our prosecution was fighting crime until there was an opposition initiative. In particular, the Living Wall began to collect signatures, but colleagues from the opposition, I think that from almost all the opposition parties there was support and finally Mr. Cwitan came here to present his blue report of a few hundred pages. And while he was presenting that report, I asked him a few interesting questions. Among other things, he said there should be a reconstruction of the BOOK, i.e., reorganization of the BOOK, and that we should have 10 serious shifts per year, and not to deal with paying off a cop there or breaking into some kind of kiosk or such similar objects, where there are small amounts, where there are few perpetrators, it is not organised crime. There's no better example of the crime mentioned than if someone on the road gave a cop who jumped out of the bush 50 kn to let him go, it's a school example of spontaneous crime. However, we see neither in the intentions nor in the policies of this government, any measures that would significantly help the Croatian judiciary to fight its enemy, which is, above all, injustice in all its forms. Here, today, I've already talked about this, the Fantasyland case, it's about a construction project there by Samobor, a fun park, which has never begun to be built, worth about a billion and 300 million kuna. Why didn't he start building? Because the Croatian judiciary, which is the courts, but primarily the State's Attorney's Office and the judicial inspection blocked and paralysed the whole process and, therefore, we have billions and 300 million kuna, the investment has been blocked. And that this is at least the only example, where the judiciary has paralyzed the economy, where the judiciary has captured 100 jobs or I don't know how many annual tax revenues over each of those 10 years, it's not a very common phenomenon for us. So here, on 28 May 2010, there was a criminal application, and in 30.5.2018, respectively, a full 8 years, and 2 days, the State's Attorney's Office was supposed to do something about it. For 8 years, there was a criminal application in the drawer, and Mr. Jelenić assured us, gave a statement to Nova TV, that it was not true, that it was a myth, that it was some kind of, I don't know, pulsism, that it wasn't happening. Black on white, I've got paper here and I've talked about it and when Mr. Civtan was giving a report here, and I've listed other cases, where the same thing is happening. Croatia cannot become a normal country until legal deadlines are respected. If the legal deadline is 6 months. Plus 12 months. Then it's not 100 months, then you don't act 100 months. You told Mr. Bošnjakovic about the fact that the judicial inspection isn't going into the subjects in essence, okay, maybe it's not working. But what about disrespecting the deadlines? That no state's attorney's office solves any case, no criminal charges, isn't that a job for a judicial inspection? In the case of Fantasy, we have six or more. In addition to having non-compliance with the deadlines, we have a second series of violations of the law on criminal proceedings, such as the release of the case file from the court's office, or DORH. We're not going to read here in front of the authorized person of that file, in controlled conditions, where the cameras and everything that has to be, we're not going to go in there to the cafe under the old roofs, so we're going behind somewhere, a little bit after that, and then we're going to go back, and then we're going to work on it. It's unserious, it's contaminating the process, contaminating evidence, making witnesses, could anyone take or add or plant or make some official document apocryphal, it was happening in the case of Fantasy and it was reported to the inspection. Furthermore, overpayment of witches is prescribed by the rules, if I'm not mistaken, as much as an expert can receive compensation for his work, such figures have been breached here. Isn't that a job for a judicial inspection? And not to go too much into the details, right? 3000 memos in these eight years were sent in the case of Fantasy, which haste, which is written by different, from the State Judicial Council, from the State's Attorney's Council, from the Minister of Justice, this one, the Orsat Milenić, you, Mr. Bošnjakovic, and even then you were Minister in 2010, in 2011, when this whole story began, I don't know, this court, that court. Of course, classics, president, Prime Minister, President of the Parliament, Committee on Presentations and Appeals here, so that something might just move on May 28th, after my calling here Cwitan. I don't need fame or merit, where I'm lucky that all the MPs are, and everyone got a letter from Fantasy Land a year and something, every day called on the institutions not to respect the laws. We don't ask for much, when I put pressure on the institutions, it requires, above all, only that the laws be respected. We make these new laws, but do we respect the old laws? We don't respect you. Now I've given you a whole series of examples. Even the current series of laws, we were unable to implement, properly apply. Will the people who have been reported in this case and in other cases ever receive strict measures, whether a state attorney, because he has not made a decision, and all his deadlines have ever expired, whether a report of judicial inspection will ever reach the State's Attorney's Council, whether there will be any conclusion, against those persons, I fight that he will, because in this country there must be order, responsibility must be established at all levels, and whoever worked, or worse, has not worked, means neglect, reluctantness, too, must also be responsible for the consequences of his actions and misdemeanors. Here I will continue with all the means, from activists to legal struggles to not only in the case of fantasy, but there are many, from the press case where it is also waiting for a 10-year-old to finally, to make the top something finally, to make an investigative shop in some concrete file so this around Agrokor who knows how much to drag. So there is no life in such a country, who will believe such a country where he cannot come, where he cannot come to justice, where institutions are paralyzed. Speaking of which, the Minister of Justice, it is you, Mr. Bosnjakovic, who prescribes a judicial inspection, so if I'm not mistaken at the annual level of work, or the plan is called, as already. So exactly what this inspection is supposed to do. And therefore, because there has been no action, let's say in particular in the case of fantazyland, I see responsibility in you as a minister of justice, and you have been written here and this sector of yours for the establishment of justice. Well, by some logic, it could've already come to order, if anything, because it's been eight years and it's already in the jurisdiction of a judicial inspection if there's any violations. No, there's no movement except for this one from a few days ago. It is a real picture of the Croatian judiciary and Croatian citizens know it. That's what Europe tells you. Read the European Commission's report on corruption. Romanians sanctioned 1,500 politicians to a final verdict, according to a report by the European Commission, DNA, a national anti-corruption directorate, as already read in Romania, I have never studied it. An example for the whole of Europe is cited by the Commission and we are somewhere on the verge of a serious approach to combating corruption. There isn't and this reform will be all that's left of RE-form. The essence will remain about where it is. And why is that, I've often wondered? Well, because if we went to do what the whole normal world did, I'm afraid that a number of political caste members and associated people, and some of them are already known as Sanader and his clicks get killed in that process, they'd lose their freedom, lose their property, which is even more painful for them, would lose their property, their reputation doesn't mean anything to them, they're often people without scruples. And I see here a major obstacle to why there's no real will for reform, only for RE-forms. Well, not to be too long in length and width, it would be interesting to do one analysis of how much GDP has eaten corruption at the annual level, and I said according to my free estimates I receive a large number of these and other smaller, smaller, often not all economic crime, or it's not all about companies, it's about natural persons that somewhere 1% of the year could at least grow to work for us, that we also have this segment of justice. So with that hope I'm going to say that we're not going to support these RE-forms because it's throwing sand into the eyes, it's trying to show that there's something still moving while they're making will for cutting, not for biting nails, but for cutting, and even some heads in figurative terms there's no and it's not obvious the time has come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88758	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sincic. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88759	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers and state secretaries, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here I am, briefly on behalf of the HDZ Club, going to make a statement on these three laws, two of which are tied to the state's attorney's office, one on the State's Attorney's Council. As we know, the final proposal of the Law on State Attorney's Office is, in fact, a fundamental organisational regulation for the work of the State's Attorney's Office, which governs the establishment and jurisdiction of the state's attorneys, powers, rights and duties of the state's attorneys and their deputies, the conduct of justice and state's attorney's offices and other important issues for their work. At the 7th session of this High House held on 16 March of this year, the draft law was adopted in the first reading with certain proposals and observations addressed to the applicant, and some of the relevant observations of the Legislative Committee and the text of the final draft law were also made to the respected certain no-technical observations of the Legislative Committee. Article 52 provides for a new power of attorney in the affairs of the State Attorney's Office and for the supervision of the processing of personal data, in view of the obligation to determine the supervisory authority in those proceedings. The provisions of Articles 63 and 64 relating to the competence of the College of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia have also been supplemented and the content of the report of the Chief State Attorney to the Croatian Parliament has been updated in such a way that the annual report may alert the state and functioning of the legal system, the lack of legislation and the internal business of the State's attorney and make proposals for improving work. What I want to point out is that this law is really good that we've specified the selection process for the attorney general. Then what is also a difference with the first reading, which is that Article 74 has left out the government's continuing notification of cases of special state interest in which the State's attorneyy is authorised and is obliged to take legal action to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia, since it continuously informs the Ministry and other competent state authorities of the procedure and whose jurisdiction it is. In Article 106, a provision provides for the time of mandatory conduct of the State's attorney's office prior to the possible re-allocation of the State's attorneys and their deputies to work in the Ministry of Justice, the Judicial Academy or the State's Attorney's Council. The provision of Article 123 has also been amended in such a way that the State Attorney's Office, with more than 15 deputy state attorneys, has a director of the State's Attorney's Office. Article 124 amends the conditions for a number of national attorneys and specialists to comply with the conditions for several judicial advisers and specialists. In order to implement the proposed law, resources in the state budget have been provided and given the proposed possibility of hiring the Director of State Attorney's Office in State Attorney's Offices with more than 15 deputies and the introduction of senior consultants, it is stressed that the fullness of these jobs will be gradual and that they will be implemented in accordance with the means provided. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State Lawyers, it was adopted in the first reading without specific objections and proposals. The differences between the final proposal in relation to the proposal from the first reading are the result of the amendment of the final proposal of the Law on Areas and Seas of Courts, given the changes in the areas of jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in Karlovac, the Municipal Court in Novi Zagreb, the Municipal Court in Rijeka, the Municipal Court in Split and the Municipal Tribunal in Zagreb. The plenary debate noted that the seat of the State's attorneys should be in line with the courts' seats but not accepted because of the need to respect the specificity of the establishment and operation of the State's Attorney's Office. For the implementation of this law, funds are also provided in the state budget and for the establishment of a new network of municipal state attorneys and funds for the upgrade of the information system, they are planned to be achieved from EU funds. The Law on the State Attorney's Council defines as a new law the Council as an independent and independent body which ensures the independence and independence of the State's Attorney's Office. The law prescribes the composition of the council, the part-circuit and the powers of the council, the way it works, the conditions and procedures for the appointment of state attorneys and their deputies, their transfer, the establishment of strict responsibility, the resolution, the manner of submission, the management and control of the property cards of state lawyers and some other small details relating to their jurisdiction. The text of the final draft law has been developed in relation to the draft law in the first reading nomotechnically compared to the observations of the Legislative Committee and has also been made in substance in accordance with certain proposals. It is also not necessary to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law. The HDZ Club considers that all three proposals of the law that I have spoken of are important for the good and efficient functioning of the State Attorney's Office as a very important link in society when we talk about institutional protection of society and of all values in society and that they are well prepared and will therefore support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88760	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maria Jelkovac. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Orsat Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So, first of all, as I was talking about areas and courts' seats, I don't see the need for any increase in the number of state attorneys, quite the opposite. Instead of moving forward and following some trends where all these jobs concentrate on as few points as possible within which people can specialize, better and better quality do their job, if you want and in which they escape from local environments and possible local influence, we are going back and back again. I said about the courts, and I say here, the only country that increases the number of fundamental courts, and that now applies to this is Serbia. And instead of following the examples of Western lands, we follow the example of the eastern neighbour. I can't agree with that, and we can't support that. However, what I would like to say more than not as a criticism but perhaps as a missed opportunity, which is things in the appointment and resolution of a state attorney. Why don't I say not as a criticism because the first one I didn't change when I could or could suggest changes, but now, if you will, with later brains, that's what you're saying to me, some things with later brains. So I think the solution to which a four-year term can be renewed is not good. And we can also talk about changing the Constitution because we have a European public prosecutor who, what, eight years is one term. It's something that really allows the state's attorney to be independent until the end, because he doesn't have to come to Parliament after four years, expect whether or not the government will propose him or not, which will be with him, etc. With such a change, I'm saying it's something that can be explained as something we're going towards, so I'm talking about what we should and what we should be working on. You then gave one person confidence, then we can talk about being a two-thirds majority like someone suggested here, but then really that person knows I have one mandate, and they'll do it by the end, there's no calculation that after four years, they'll have to re-expose themselves to the political body, whoever's in power to re-propose, decide, etc. And that's some sort of solution that some modern European trends are going towards again, and I'm sorry we didn't put it on the table, we opened the conversation about it as something we should go towards. If we have a restriction now we're not going to spend it now, but let's think a step further. I'm also sorry we didn't, I don't know what article there was now. These conditions for a state's attorney's release. Now that you're looking at it, I'm saying it's not, you're just a little dress-up, so this isn't a grudge, this is just something I think maybe we should change and repeat, we're not. The terms of resolution, one of the conditions is what? In fact, the government isn't happy with his work. It can be read like that. And it's never been used for any kind of negative purpose before. However, there is a legal solution that allows the government to actually say we are not satisfied, we propose your shift. It's also one of the possibilities of political pressure. I'm not saying he's having a good time, and he's gonna be abused, but in every law, we have to talk about what he can give. I'm sorry we didn't move it when we could, so I'm talking now. It didn't occur to us, we never applied it, neither did you so far, but the fact is that something is embedded in our law where the government has very broad opportunities to say actually discreet because it's not, which means it doesn't satisfy work? How are you going to justify that, how are you going to measure it? It's not illegal work. You have to prove your legality. This is something you're going to say I don't like how it works. Let's get him replaced. You've actually made a kind of pressure. So that's something I'd say with one let's say a democratic step forward would be by myself, I say, we're not, so that's not the criticism we're putting on you, this is just thinking about something that maybe we all should change together so that this state's attorney, the attorney general, will be even more independent than he is now. There's been no abuse until now, but a lot of things that aren't, tomorrow might be different. Tomorrow there may be someone in power, so they'll want to do it, and we're legally giving him that opportunity. And that's something I don't like. I'm saying, it doesn't concern you personally, it doesn't apply, but we're looking into the future. This separation and adoption of a special law on the state's attorney council absolutely. It's something that's good, why not? We've got a state-of-the-art judgment council set up. We can do this. I would take a step back and here one of the reasons for the resolution is not to implement the program. I think then the program in the law itself, it is, but it has to be a little bit more specific. Because if you can propose a solution for not implementing the program, then we need to make sure that the man, the attorney general, the lawyers, are really specific tomorrow, and the better his program is, and when we put him out here, that person has to know, I didn't do it, and what I said, maybe it's my solution for wallpaper. If we don't put it to be more precise than it is now, then we're putting ourselves in danger of a discretionary assessment that I'm saying, I don't think anyone would abuse it at all, but it can happen because we put it in the law like that. So on the one hand you say that, if you're not enough, so you know, you're a lawyer, if it's not precise enough, then it goes into discretion. And that can be a problem. So what I'm saying isn't critical of your proposed solutions, they're more regrets about something, I said intro, we didn't do it either, but I'm sorry it didn't take a step in that direction now. As far as this is concerned,... To the council of law, to arrange a much better procedure for choice, it is absolutely something that is more than welcome and which should be accepted and supported. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One question was raised in the Committee's discussion. Namely, in the discussion of the report by the attorney general and the information that I did not know and which would beg you to address, which are these property investigators. So, we introduced departments a few years ago, I don't know exactly what they're called, for property investigations. So, people who are experts who should cooperate with the state's attorneys in severe investigations of economic crime, so to speak, means experts, experts at that. Do you know how many were appointed? I didn't know that information until the state's attorney general's report. Not one. No person is actually not appointed but employed, these are civil servants on these jobs. Why? There's too little pay. It's from our time, but I'm just asking you to pay attention to that because it's pointless now that the rest of your departments are in law, and we don't have one, but people, not a single person who would be involved in the investigation of heavy property crimes. We predicted departments, we didn't raise the coefficient under the civil servants' regulations, no one wants to work for that salary, we don't have anyone. So, we send a message, we draw nice, but we don't give conditions and encourage people to do that. I repeat, it doesn't apply to you, it goes back to when I was a minister, but now is the chance to change it. Because if we want to send a message saying we want to investigate these serious crimes, let's hire people. We have to give them the odds for that. This is ridiculous. I say, we have departments in the law still are, or let's get them out of the law. We can say we don't want to. We don't want property investigations, we don't need investigators. Great. Then let's get them out of here. But while they're in the law, let's at least hire two or three people on it. At this point I say, according to the condition of a month ago zero, no one is employed. We're sending a message to criminals you're still stealing, we're not interested in investigating you because we're not willing to pay people 500 kuna more or 1,000. That's the message we're sending. So it's something that's more appeal to change, it's not a matter of law, it's a matter of regulation, so a sublegal act, but it can be done relatively simply and moved things. I think the powers of the minister should remain to give an opinion, I think that's a good thing, that's not politicizing, that's what I was saying to the vice president of the court. It is, I would say, one contact of the judiciary with the public with, I will not call it control, but it is a democratic one, if you want to say control where citizens actually have a minister, a ministry that will send a message on their behalf if something is not doing well and through that opinion. And that's something that should stay. There were no estimates that this would be unconstitutional so that it would be incurring independence, so as with courts why not leave it here. So here are some of the remarks that are, not just what you're changing, because it's more or less okay except for this increase in me, but it's a matter of policy that we've said but more of some kind of missed opportunity that we could have here, if not another time, but it's something to think about. And if we said independence is going that way. I'll give you another argument. Many efforts were made to bring the President of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General closer, although this is not the same, but in many ways. And we've been propagating independent judicial bodies. Then look at the conditions for resolution, they're completely different. Look at some other conditions, it's completely different. So this is still something where the paws of executives through the legislative authority want to be. I don't think it's a good message, I'm saying we haven't changed, but you've had a chance, so I say think about it when there's next chance that it might change, let them in that segment be even more independent. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88762	I thank my esteemed colleague Orsat Milenić. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Anka Mark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88763	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here in the second set of laws 3+3 we have the Law on State Attorney's Office, the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of the State's Attorney's Office and the Law on DOV or the State's Attorney's Council. When it comes to justice and the way we evaluate ourselves, but also the way we judge ourselves, but also the way the public assesses us. In general, when it comes to justice, it is one of the painful points in Croatia. Of course, a lot of media space has caused so many times from this booth mentioned syncope and that that dog Maddie who can bark at a certain time or not bark or has to bark only in a certain part of the yard that I don't even speak. The ministry called this a mini, so it says judicial mini reform, I would call it once, in one way, basic hygiene. So everything about the state's attorney's office has decided to define through three laws, thus being clear, consistent, all defined and, as explained in the explanation, systematically edit and so on. But if you want to have reform, then you must have courage for reform. And the reform must be a step forward. And you have to get such a picturesque word and by your kidneys for the simple reason that those experiences that teach us, we who have something over the years are next to us. There's no one who won't stand up for reform. As soon as you mention the word reform, everything else will be pawned, but then comes the one, but not exactly me, and not exactly in my backyard, and it doesn't exactly apply to me. It has already been said in the debate, and I would like to reiterate once again the importance of the attorney general. It is absolutely necessary in Croatia to separate everything from the judiciary, from politics and so on, I think that the step would be, regardless of what we know, that others should be there, that I do not say the basic regulation to change, which is that the main state attorney is appointed to 7 years once. Why 7? Because we have 4+4 choices that are not about the election and why and 7 for the simple reason that when you do a little research then these research shows you that the most effective is in changing jobs, so no matter what between 5 and 10 years later, after 10 years, the saturation starts, in the first 4.5 years I don't want to say so, and then it's kind of the biggest step. So I think we're here, and if we really want to take a step, if we want to have the courage, which is that of the state's attorney, I'm talking about the attorney general, we're deciding that he should be... Two times four years, to be dependent on those who have changed, that his reports are not looked at in the context of what they really are but in the context of what they show in substance, the work that they've done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something that is extremely important, when it comes to laws under the jurisdiction of the judiciary, regardless of what we are discussing at this late time, although between the two matches, this one is already finished and this one at 8 am is not yet beginning but watching reruns is the public and transparency of the whole process and the evaluation of the people who deal with the judiciary, the way they choose because it's shown as soon as you wrap something up with secret then people are absolutely thinking about it in a way that's wrong and there's something hiding. And I think that one step that should be should be in a way that maybe on the web pages, so on the Internet they publish with the names of state lawyers and the number of solved cases, maybe some kind of efficiency, some way with judges, I think the time has come for it to really be, the way the score was made, the way that their intensity is working. I have to admit in another project we've been conducting we've decided that the results of the offices are publicly published. Much better, which office was better knew by mayors, mayors than we knew at the ministry because they competed with each other who would be better. So at a time when we have the opportunity to publish it would be very good, it's also about judges or maybe a little more applies to judges that if we want to evaluate judges, if we want them to be able to be rewarded by those who work more but also sanctioned by those who do less work but to have their name and name as well as the number of solved cases. It's about property cards. So I can't understand and I won't understand, the property cards of all officials are being run, there's a committee to prevent conflict of interest. When it comes to officials and the jurisdiction of the judiciary, then in this case it is run by the State's Attorney's Council. I must admit that it seems to me in a way, as if we decide, that the property cards of the council's representatives are being taken to the Parliament? Why wouldn't the property cards of the parliamentary deputies be registered in the Parliament? You have, say, 4-5 provisions on how this is done, and I still don't understand why the property cards, when it comes to State's Attorneys, before the judges, have to lead this case to the State's Attorney's Council, when it comes to judges, why can't it be different? And I won't understand that, and I certainly won't, and that's absolutely unclear to me. There are two more topics I think I need to talk about, one topic is the protection of personal data. The subject of data protection, which is open at EU level, which is behind this, we have transposed into our legislation and which is mentioned through all these laws will bring us a new kind of work. They're going to bring us a new group of new things, and surely, this law, in that part, defined only the basics, but over time they're going to have to define some other things. And what I appreciate is that it's extremely important, which is to represent it in front of foreign courts. We have a decree. 43. Law on the State Attorney's Office, which speaks of representing the interests of the Republic of Croatia before foreign courts. I must admit that man learns the most in his own experience. And let me in this debate, when we're all pretty tired, so maybe I can make it easier for a debate, a few sentences, the experiences we've had. In Croatia, a part of our coast appeared an investor with no good intentions. And he got from the office, so, from an office that is in the jurisdiction of the county, a paper on which it was written, that even after changes in spatial plans were made, the harmonisation of spatial plans might be a possible tourist zone. To him, that paper was quite enough, that for a huge amount, which I am now going to say wrong, I failed to find there in this short time that he sued the Republic of Croatia. He sued the Republic of Croatia for damages, for profit compensation, for compensation for what he meant there to do miracles, which based on our law could not even do and the whole process took place before the court in London. The Republic of Croatia for the protection of its rights, therefore, was a colleague, who was a deputy. The state's attorney, who led the case, hired 4-5 people at the ministry to process the case. Then the experts, the urban professions, were hired to assess that from the point of view of urbanism. After that, we had and hired lawyers in London, I don't know what amount was paid, but compared to what the ministry was doing, so where there are 4-5 people, that was 2 cc's of documentation that we used to apply. I note, therefore, that in your current spatial plan, it was not meant for the tourist zone at all, but it was one piece of paper, in which someone wrote a diagram to make it possible. And the whole process was conducted for three years and eventually the Republic of Croatia won. So, the Republic of Croatia received a court in London, it ruled in favour of the Republic of Croatia not in favour of that investor. Just these few sentences, which I was able to say, to understand the depth of the problem, the depth of the problem is that they were hired by people from the ministry, they were witches, we were paying lawyers who were outside, and all of this went through the State's Attorney's Office, because of course, the State's Attorney's Office represents the interests of the Republic of Croatia, that is, in this case. That's gonna get more and more. They will not be tried and procedures will not be conducted in Croatia, they will be conducted elsewhere. There, at the end of the provision. 43rd is one, but it's hard to say that in certain jobs, counselors will be able to activate. I'm saying, this was a job that was in the area of spatial planning, that is, spatial planning, where you had to hire someone who still had to evaluate you somehow. However, let us remember the case concerning Agrokor, with art, a case that will be tied and where you must engage experts in certain capacity and knowledge. What am I saying? When we talk about the Law on State's Attorney's Office, then we read it through the name and last name gl. The state's attorney, we read it through the way it's named, we read it through the way it's going to be resolved. However, this should also be read with jobs that are there, along with jobs that are taking place, with jobs, which will be new jobs, which we have not yet had, therefore, on the protection of personal data, so far we have not yet had any experience and experience and scratches will be in the future. This that Croatia is being sued in front of international courts, i.e. to sue the courts of some other states, are, please, well, these are some other things. And we come up with one question, which I'm going to ask every time, who's going to do it. So that's the question every time. There's not a single job, where I'm not going to ask that question who's going to do it, because for a salary and here let's be honest and correct about the salary that can be here, so that everyone calls you not to do your job, that everyone knows that you should do your job, we'll find it hard to get quality people to do it. And the question is really all the questions as I have spoken from this speaker many times about sustainable development, about climate change, so something that is so my core business that I'm so happy to talk about, but now it's not the subject or decentralisation, or the topic that we're going to discuss how many courts there are going to be, who's going to work on those courts because for the pay they have, for the problems they are, for the jobs they're getting. To be business, there's no one who doesn't understand it, so in a way that knows how this or that should be done, the question is who's going to do it, and that's the question of all the questions, and that's something that we need to start thinking about right now. For something you can have an enhanced immigration policy in Croatia and say that you will replace something with foreign workers. The trial will also be difficult to replace with the reform that needs to be and should be in the sense that it really is about the judiciary to be independent of politics but also in a way that we should try and keep the most qualitative ones because if that is not the case, then that dog Bear from the start of my debate will be the usual situation in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88764	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. Next debate on behalf of SDSS Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88765	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with the secretary of state. I would anyway welcome this set of laws, these changes that are proposed globally because I think they're positive, that set of laws is called an ambitious mini judicial reform. I would, however, point out some constructive criticisms that I believe the Ministry of Justice should have gone in a more courageous and determined direction and perhaps encourage a real debate in the Croatian Parliament and ask for perhaps co-operation with the opposition in order to make these changes more comprehensive and perhaps even a change in the Constitution. In fact, I was also talking about this in my first reading because the proposal, i.e. in the reasons and assessments of the state of the proposed laws, states that a more comprehensive regulation of the conduct of civil and administrative departments is wanted because the civil and administrative department actually protects the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia. So these civil-government departments are not in the public focus, they are not in the focus of the Croatian Parliament, mostly when we are discussing the State's Attorney's report, we are talking about the criminal department, we are talking about USKOK, we are expressing satisfaction, we are not content with this work of the State's Attorney's Office and somehow we are left with a neglected part of the State's Attorney's Office that deals with civil-government work. I think that part is very important and, in fact, that part of the State's Attorney's Office, the civic part, should be separated from the crime because the very text of the material says protection of the property rights of the Republic of Croatia. What are we talking about then, rather than actually the service of the state, that the Civil-Government Department is representing the state, that it gives opinions and concerns about the interests of the state from a professional point of view. The government is leading its policy, making political decisions as the DORH looks through the profession and assesses professionally but I think it would be more courageous to go into reform if this civil-government department would step away from this crime. That's why we should change the constitution, but I think we should think that way. What is problematic, as far as this civil-government work is concerned, not only does he not have glamour or public reflector lights on that part of the DORH but he has no DORH funds, he has no budget, and he should be focused on it because he brings positive and not only to the state, but also to the citizens because when a citizen wants to sue the state, he actually has to submit first a proposal for a settlement, so the motion for a peaceful solution of the dispute and the state, or the DORH, if it goes negatively or if it doesn't go public, unfortunately it happens very often, then there is a lawsuit against the state. And so let's say we have statistics according to the requirements for a peaceful 2016 dispute solution, somewhere around 16% of those demands are a negotiated settlement, so it's settled in a peaceful manner. I think it's a small business, and it's better than the previous years, but if it were to be invested in education, if it were to be invested in additional funds, in people in this civil work of the State's Attorney's office, I think the number of settlements would be much higher. I think that deputies in municipal state attorneys should be particularly encouraged to make deals, to hold regular colleges, to make deals, and that statistics would certainly be much better. The civil part of the DORH should, in fact, be bound here by the civil part of the DORH that it must be manifested in the submission of a settlement proposal or for a peaceful solution to the dispute and that it must explain its refusal to make a settlement, therefore, if the dispute is not accepted on behalf of the State. The law here provides for increased number of local state attorneys, so 3 new municipal state attorneys, I think we may be missing the right analysis after the reduction in numbers, to see if we have actually achieved the goal that we wanted to achieve by reducing the number of municipal state attorneys by reducing the number of judicial officials because it certainly makes it difficult in small cities to communicate with citizens, and precisely this possibility of making a settlement. I say that from personal experience, it doesn't necessarily mean that I'm right, so it's my seeing things, but one quality analysis would show what's on things. The other thing I'd like to point out here is the choice of a top state attorney, something my colleagues said earlier. I was in my first reading, and I think it would be better for me to be in the role of the State's Attorney's Council. Unfortunately, that part of the final bill remained the same, but I definitely support thinking that we should think about it, so I definitely support this proposal for a solution to limit the re-election to two mandates, but it should definitely be considered in the direction of maybe limiting it to a longer mandate, I think that would only strengthen the institution of the attorney general or its independence. What I would also like to say in my debate, as I pointed out in my first reading of the so-called state attorneys, or their reelection, the DOV conducts a conversation that is being held. I think that this is a difficult category which is very subjective and that, in order to increase the objectivity and transparency of the choice of state lawyers, it should go to the number, or the number of points obtained by the conversation being reduced or even completely deleted. I also believe that it should be mentioned in the assessment of or evaluation of the conduct of the State's attorney's office in the Law, or it is proposed to resolve this by means of a general instruction. I was the one who pointed out in the first reading that I think it's more appropriate for the Minister to do it with the Regulation. I'm still in that position because I believe that the rule passed by by by the minister is still going through a certain procedure, the government may pass. So he doesn't have to pass the government, but he can pass the government and it would be good if he passed the government. It could be assessed or subjected to the Constitutional Court's assessment of the constitutionality assessment, therefore, to the act whether it is in agreement with the Constitution and the law. Here on general instructions, I am not sure that this will be because the fact is that it regulates the working legal status of judicial officials. There, it is not accepted, it has been assessed by the promoters that the current proposal is good. What is therefore not part of this set of laws, and what I often point out in my debates is precisely data on the number of members of national minorities as regards both judicial officials and employees, we are now talking specifically not in courts but in state attorneys. There is a better representation than the state service. Actually, not something, but a lot better. So we have 3.4% of minority members in the state service, and here, if we look at judicial officials in the state's attorney's office, 4.5% while the clerk is somewhere around 4.3%, so almost 1% more. However, it remains a sub-representation and a great sub-representation. Therefore, the representation is unfortunately unsatisfactory, so I appeal, both in the election of judicial officials and in the reception of civil servants to municipal and county state attorneys and state attorneys of the Republic of Croatia, to take into account the respect for the right of members of national minorities to respect and implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88766	I thank my esteemed colleague Milosevic. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88767	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia, many of whom I have spoken, with whom I am speaking, all of us live with these people, believe that the judiciary is a key problem in the Republic of Croatia. I was just talking about the courts' seats. I could also do it again for the lawyers. But first of all, I'm going to see this reform that talks about the attorney's office in essence when we look at the state's attorney's office and the role and the effects of the state's attorney's attorney's office and the overall judiciary, and we see that we are more than in a bad position because we simply don't believe in the state's attorney's office, nor who believes in the judiciary, nor who believes in the court, regardless of what the Republic of Croatia is in terms of a lot of isolation in relation to these, but it should be more, mainly for the state's attorney's office, BUSKOK. However, the fact is that we have not made any progress. We, by the way, all those who have made a fortune through war profiting while the state and through tycunization, the creation of tycoon, simply see that people walk freely and even have honorary lodges during football matches and spoil that tycoon that now our team has done, for example. Here we go. It's no problem for the former prime minister to be in the honorary lodge, Ivo Sanader. It's in some kind of accreditation, it's OK in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that we've been dealing with a lot of state's attorney's stuff, dealing with things while INA was robbing, for example. White nights later as Sanader left it to MOL, the white night began of course SDP, Slavko Linic. Or telecommunications that started HDZ right after the war, and ended the SDP at the time the most arrested and expelled Croatian defenders. There they were thorough, in locating, including, while for war crimes, on the other hand, around the Serb aggressor, we still haven't solved much. Here, I suggested the other day that we have a day of peace, according to Dr. Ivan Schreter, we don't know today where Dr. Ivan Schreter is. So we have to change all the laws, we can do whatever we want, but it's a fact that the State's Attorney's office, has not done its job at the moment, except for the political task. Because the fact in my town, in my Cetitian extreme, is that I've said it countless times, those who didn't have five dinars in '90. There are rich people in my pocket today. I don't know how. They weren't taken, they weren't capable, and they didn't get the lotto as far as I know, they should be checked, simply if they didn't get the lotto. So the basis of this is people's mistrust in the state's attorney's office and the judiciary, and that's one of the key problems people are moving out of. What needs to be done I don't know, but the fact that these laws, which are now being given, the Bridge has given a set of proposals through both the platform and its survival movement, we have given a whole range of these reform proposals as regards the judiciary we will give and a series of amendments on behalf of the Club of Col. Sladolev has said our views, we have brought up these problems, but the fact is that people don't believe in the judiciary. What my colleague mentioned earlier, because of the Bear dogs and because of the barking, was condemned, while those criminals, tycoons, so that an impression is created, as if the government did not rule in Croatia. Or should I say it more vividly? Everyone's saying, every state has a mob, unfortunately, every state, and it turns out to be a mob with its own state. Because those who created the empires, who knows what way, they manage Croatia for one hour, manage the Croatian system, so I am disappointed. I mean, here I am, the State's Attorney's Office, raising criminal charges against those who have allowed Agrokor to rise to this level, those who have allowed Bianca's bonds to be used without cover by 10 billion kuna Agrokor, who has compromised financial stability for a year, it's the CNB that's the agency for, HANFA. However, I have no answer, but the fact that they allowed Todorovic means last year at 4 months. There's been a criminal report filed. I also filed a long-standing report for the disappearance of money for weapons in the Cetina area, and today I have no answer to these questions from the State's Attorney's office except for one answer. I had an answer, it's money to arm the Chetian extreme, which later came into the tycoon's pockets, and I have the answer that it's obsolete. It's like we've got her out of date. That money that was supposed to be armed in the war is now obsolete. Therefore, everyone's mistrust in the state's attorney's office and the judiciary is the biggest problem right now. Those who robbed the country walk free, grandmothers who sell onions or some kind of their domestic products, close them, benefit themselves with import lobbys, so the State's Attorney's office needs to know, it's a structure, while our farmers sell their products, and they can't sell. So it just doesn't work, the state's attorney's office doesn't function, people don't trust, mainly entrepreneurs, they don't trust the judiciary, they don't trust the state's attorney's office, and I think there's a key problem and this reform doesn't even have an R of reform. This is the angle. Smuggling into the law we have in the courts, that these people, that the courts are seats. The election remained the same, and parliaments are elected by the majority of the state's attorney's policies. Even the two-thirds majority do not choose, although HDZ, SDP, as well as the Constitutional Court would easily agree, when elected then speak to the two-thirds majority, so it would probably be with the State's attorney, so that some changes, expected by the people, in terms of the regulated state, for the development of the economic and economic and for this entrepreneurial spirit could be in motion. It will be difficult as long as we have a mistrust and a visible problem in the State's Attorney's Office. And now we're gonna go, here we go, one more time, I mentioned war crimes just now. I wonder how many war crimes have been solved by the great Serbians? Very little. Well, we're not, here's Peru is mined, Vlatko Maric has blasted Peru's dam, which is the biggest attempted crime after 2 st. The war. Minered, the dam exploded, and we were lucky what wasn't what was prevented and remedied when it was mined. We have footage, di Ratko Mladic, the Serb speaking in the Croats, I'm... So thorough and military, and you know how I do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when the dam exploded, the Cetinski end, Omisko, Trill, Sinj, Trill, Omis. It would all get hurt and the ecoicide would be genocide. Our even, the State's Attorney's Office didn't send it when he was in HAG the lawsuit to be against Ratko Mladic, because they got involved, how to be guided, how to charge our generals, how to court themselves, how to charge Gotovina, how to arrest them, how to locate them, how to transfer them, because as it was already said, so he wouldn't miss, as he said, Mr. Vladimir Sheks, then as he says, in front of Mesic and Sanader's decision, they did not deal with what Ratko Mladic was doing, the biggest criminal tried to do. He didn't try, he did. That's the other thing that was luck, so it didn't, the Peru dam went up. The state's attorney's office didn't even deal with it. Here, I mentioned a moment ago that giant of ours... I was reading a book from Degorie where he says exactly that our colleague, Milorad Pupovac, was involved and should have exchanged Dr. Shether. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Has anyone done anything? I wonder if anyone asked, so we know where this man is. Here he is now in HDZ power, so Dr. Shether has risen and the founder of HDZ, the bartender is head of crisis headquarters. So can someone go and ask, so Mr. Pupovci, so do you know if you guys said you'd exchange it to me if we... Serbian prisoners, that's what I read in Mr. Slavko Degorcija's book. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the whole public knows that. But because of the coalition relations between HDZ, SDSS and HNS, precisely in this order of HDZ, Pupovec's SDSS and HNS, we can't. So the impact of politics on the state's attorney's office, on the judiciary and that's it. That's why this whole story comes into question, and that's why the people see that the HDZ, the SDSS and the HNS are working that way. My colleague Bačić laughed a little bit, but that's right and that's exactly how I said, if I was wrong in order, I could do different, HNS, HDZ, SDSS or vice versa. Here I thank you, I expect it will be effective and not that we will do reforms for the sake of reform because you ministers are the only thing you are, so you are a window like a man walking and you absolutely have no influence on this. You have to listen, you say it's not easy, but that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88768	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Next debate, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88769	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am not talking about the general social climate as our colleague Bulj, but in particular about the proposal for a law on the State's Attorney's Office and, analoguely, what I have spoken and proposed an amendment related to the Law on Courts, I also feel that it should also be considered here that the minister should be the one who proposes and brings general, indicative criteria for the work of deputy state attorneys, and with the previous opinion of the attorney general, and not as it is now that the proposal is given by the attorney general. We also believe that practice has shown that the current way of adopting framework criteria is not effective, it is not spotless, so it is proposed by my amendment to change it in a way that the minister of justice as a person who responds and politically for the situation in the judiciary is not only the one who brings framework criteria but also proposes them and it is only manifested by the attorney general as the first man of the state's attorney. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88770	I thank my colleagues Jelkovac. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88771	Thank you very much. Well, here I would have just missed it when it was the Law on Courts but absolutely supported this proposal of yours and I think it's very good, very constructive and that in fact further emphasize democratic control over the judiciary because it's legitimate that the minister as a representative of the executive authority elected by the MPs, so we choose it as a legislative authority, prescribes how much and what will be done and it's quite logical and legitimate because the budget still comes from our citizens. And it's not good when you give any profession to determine for itself what and how much it will do. That's what someone on the side should do, if necessary, and control it. So the proposal is both in one case and in another, then I missed it but here I am now supporting it for then and for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88772	I thank my esteemed colleague Milenić. Answer? No, thank you very much. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate on these agenda points. We'll vote on them when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88773	Final proposal of the Law on State Attorney's Office, second reading of P.Z. No. 297, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments were submitted by MP Marija Jelkovac. We have three amendments. Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88774	The government of the Republic of Croatia accepts all three amendments to the Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88775	They become an integral part of the Law, the Bill's proposal, and I apologize just as much as this last Law and here we have to have a half-breed majority of MPs, so 76, in order for the law to be passed. So I'm putting him to the vote. Therefore, the Final Proposal of the Law on State Attorney's Office. Please, let's vote. I find 76 votes in favour, four abstentions and 20 votes against the state's attorney's law passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88844	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Supplements to the Law on Inheritance, First Reading, P.Z. No. 365; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the relevant Committee on Justice. I call on the Honorable Minister of Justice, Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88845	It is very short on these short amendments to the Law on Heritage that we regulate only one situation that has not been regulated so far, which is that there are opportunities and in practice this happens that those who are heirs or who are actually based on an inheritance solution have certain rights. Inheritance resolution should specify their OIB. But they all don't have an OIB, and here we're actually prescribing a procedure when a person is therefore an heir or someone else doesn't have an OIB, so we say that the OIB should then be asked by the competent tax administration, the Ministry of Finance. If they can determine the OIB, they determine it and then we, in fact, state the OIB in the succession solution, and if they can't, for example, be a foreign citizen then state that they can't determine then the decision on succession can also be made without the OIB, with a brief description of actually all those identification reasons. I also require one provision to deliver the rightful solution to succeed the country's competent library court and regulate the issue of exceptional legal medicines in the succession solution. Here are three very short almost in technical terms amendments to the Law on Inheritance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88846	I thank the respected Minister, Mr. Bošnjakovic. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as the minister himself said briefly in his opening explanation and clarification of the law, means the short three amendments to the Law on Inheritance of More Consistency Only. We know that the amendments to this 2013 Act to the Ministry of Finance's initiative required that, in addition to the solution itself, the OIB, after it was normally seen in practice and regulation of the infringement provision itself, realised that, at certain times and certain solutions, it could not contain an OPIB or an heir or any other person with a particular interest in the succession, since the infringements and penalties of between 5000 and 100 000 kuna for the responsible persons were in court, whether in the case of public notaries or those who are unable to deliver an OIB of the leaver or any other person, were necessary in these amendments to the law to supplement it. As the minister himself said, there are special cases when it comes to foreigners or other persons when at that time the tax administration cannot deliver the necessary OIB and the solution must only be fulfilled. In the event that the tax administration informs the Court of Justice of the inability to supply information on the OIB, the Court will, however, make a decision on the succession without the indication of the OIB but, where necessary, other information necessary in order to make only a solution. In addition to these amendments that relate exclusively to the OIB, Article 227(2) provides for the delivery of the settlement itself, the same small change that is related to the practice where there has been a small failure, meaning for the very avoidance of doubts in practice, it is proposed to prescribe the obligation to deliver a valid decision on succession and to the competent country registered. At the very end, it is proposed to amend Article 190. Inheritance law which provides for the application for the protection of legality as the only authorised exceptional remedy. As the minister himself said, the purely technical nature of the HDZ club supports such changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88848	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Orsat Milenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88849	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, Secretary of State. This is something that we're going to support, which is actually technical changes, what I would suggest to you, we had in the debate and that's that you actually prescribe d Ministry of Finance then we have to determine the OIB because now we're in a situation if we said that the OIB has to be, someone has to be gone, why wouldn't the Ministry of Finance in that case determine the OIB, this OIB, whenever that person wants to do something, will have a certain OIB. And that's it. And we've solved the OIB issue in some person, any stranger or who has no reason, for all cases in the future. Because this is how you're going to have registered without the OIB, so sooner or later this OIB will have to be removed, and this is how you technically solve, so everything you've prescribed, the competent authority gets a notice, no OIB, no OIBs, determined by official duty, the OIB comes back, that person got an OIB, I think it doesn't matter, and so it can't choose which one gets an OIB, and with that OIB we'll be able to record in all transactions that happen in the Republic, that person forever. So I think that, because sooner or later you're going to have to come to that, so you're going to have to give the OIB, and this is how you've actually solved one step more and made it simple, it's a technical thing, the finance ministry is giving it away without any problem, and you have the OIB all the time in the record when the inheritance solution is given, when it goes to the land book, it's following that person that OIB, it's connected to him, and that's that. If a stranger inherits something in Croatia, please nice, they will get the OIB as you will in any other country and it will apply to you forever. So that's the trigger where you give him the OIB. So technically it's a change, but I think we could close the whole system with this and actually achieve an even better effect. ... But a stranger will come to you in some transaction again because, yes, yes, but a stranger will come to you in another transaction again and there may be somewhere to get an OIB and here you didn't give him an OIB because he doesn't give it to the Ministry of Justice. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The finance ministry will give it to him and whatever that stranger is doing in Croatia, he will be followed by the OIB. Because it's the first event that has been initiated by us in the state that we have and that we give it to the OIB. And after he goes to the bank, he's going to have an OIB because otherwise he's going to have to take out the OIB bank and go back to the land book to sign him up for the OIB. No, this is something, think about it, but I think these transactions would speed up and actually make a better solution. Thank you very much, we support the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88850	I thank my esteemed colleague Orsat Milenić. This has exhausted all the debates, and I'm closing the debate. I thank the Honorable Minister of Justice Drazen Bosnjak and the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr Kristijan Turkalj, for the reasons of all the proposals of these laws we had in their area. We'll vote this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points for today. We continue tomorrow with work at 9:30 with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Renting Apartments, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 293. Have a nice rest of the day. Session interrupted at 18.25 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-27-0.u88851	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inheritance, first reading of P.Z. No. 365, the motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- The proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Inheritance and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 4 abstentions and 3 against the preliminary conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Dear parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives, continue our work but before that one notice. So tomorrow, on Friday, June 29th, at 9.30 p.m., we'll start with a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Archive Materials and Archives, given their large number being 68, and then at 12 o'clock, we'll go ahead with the debate on the intended points we have for Friday. I also inform you that next week we will continue to work on Monday, July 2, the reason is a large number of legislative proposals that we received from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and which will be put on the agenda tomorrow. So, once again, we begin tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. by declaring amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Archive and Archives and at 12 o'clock is the vote. We now continue to work on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Rent of Apartments, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 293; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 concerning Article 190 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on War Veterans. I would now like to ask the motionary to give us an additional explanation of the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Predrag Štromar. Here you go.
