ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81668	Okay, thank you very much. We can get started. There are not too many of us yet, but I have the honour to welcome a large group of VAT members, the first Croatian Club of the International Organisation of Entrepreneurs and Business Women from Pula, and we are very pleased to have them with us and welcome them from all our hearts and we want a fruitful work as entrepreneurs. Notice now. Honorable MPs and MPs, before we start working with one notice. Simulated session, it is not the one to be held tomorrow, a simulated session of the Croatian Assembly of Students of the University of Zagreb and their guests, students of the University of Rijeka will be held on 7 May 2018, so Monday, here in the Assembly and therefore I ask you nicely to remove all personal items and materials from the tables. The goal was how many of us will be here to remove the materials I don't know, but we're doing what we can. Now we're going to the agenda. - The proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy is proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget according to the point. 2. c. 3. and in relation to the wheel. 3. ct. 2. Decisions on the establishment of a fiscal policy committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Grozdana Peric, chairman of the Committee on Finance and the state budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81669	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Commission for Fiscal Policy, a professional and independent body, which, through its work, promotes the system of public finances, how the Commission consists of presidents and six members of which one member is a representative of the CNB with other members of institutions, such as the State Audit, Economic and Legal Faculty, the Institute of Public Finance and the Institute of Public Finance and, therefore, this is proposed to take place instead of Dr. Ante Žigman, appointed president of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. We as a Committee have asked for an indication of the CNB and a proposal for a new member. The CNB has put forward a proposal to be a doctor of the science of Maroja Lang, and the Committee for, or the Committee on Finance is in agreement, or proposes to this high home to Dr. Mr Maroje Lang shall appoint a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. With his qualifications, he can do it well anyway. Here, in that sense, we propose to the Parliament for a new member of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81670	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81671	Thank you, dear fellow Members, we can propose here members of the commission and this and that, but the fact is that the fiscal stability of the country and our entrepreneurs is at risk with the non-transparent work of the Government around Agrokovic and that all the claims that will come to the Republic of Croatia, in the coming years, can contribute to the fact that Croatian taxpayers are paying for the non-transparent work of the Government of Andrej Plenkovic around Agrokor, which is now being shown in Croatian courts. All that the opposition said over the past year, Agrokor, the Agrokor Commission, all proved to be true, that the whole process in Agrokor was just one cover, that several stakeholders made 10 million kunas on the taxpayer's coat of arms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81672	Thank you, too. Mrs. Peric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81673	Well, yeah, well, we can't qualify it that way, but there's really a transparent job going on around Agrocora. So all this government has done during this period is actually seek to get the whole process going as high as possible and with as little consequences for the entire economic system and for the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it cannot be said that it is non-transparent, however, here it is, and the commission and the Committee on Finance and Government are taking great care of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81674	Thank you, Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81675	Thank you, Vice President. My replica also went in this direction that my colleague Maras spoke of. We can't talk about anything, if we have these processes, means both in the economy and in this non-transparent activity of the Croatian government, about Agrokor, everything that's been going on, shows that this process is compromised, that it's non-transparent, that everything bad that happened, that happened after the bridge left the government, we have advisory services, we have roll-up credit, we have this whole process and now this tightening around the settlement. So that everything you're saying to your colleague Lukačić, it's not true, some new moments have come up, where people, who were part of the financial team, who were supposed to analyze the situation and were offered contracts to be subcontractors, like Texo Management, have witnessed this recently, one of these people, on one portal, so you can't talk about the transparent behaviour of the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81676	Thank you very much. Answer, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81677	First of all, I have to be clear that I am not a colleague of Lukacic, but Peric, it is a small gaff, in addition, all that seems to be, therefore, a problem, which existed long before this government composition, and clearly there was a problem, which certain institutions also warned about. That, if you tie it up, just to this government, you can't do it at all. In addition, this government has tackled precisely the problem, with opportunities and ways, how to address the problem in a quality way. So she did not stand with baptized hands, but actively involved herself in solving the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81678	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. First Mr. Anton Kleman, HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, you'll let... So, as previously said, on the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the proposal came to the CNB for the proposal, for, the appointment of Mr. Maroja Lang to the position of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, given that Mr. Anti Zigman had expired his term of office, i.e. he was appointed President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to this proposal, we had no objections, we looked at absolutely all the professional features that Mr. Maroje Lang has, and I'm just going to list some of them, so a graduate economist, graduated in '97. Mr. postgraduate study of the international exchange economy graduated from the Faculty of Economics of the University of Zagreb. The scientific master's degree in economics in 2000 in London and 2011 was a doctor in science, doctored at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb. Of the professional jobs he's been doing in his current career, so Mr. Lang was an economist at the HNB Research Directorate until 2003 from '97-2003. Since 2003-2005 he has been working in the department as head of the monetary movement department, the CNB Research Directorate. Then in 2005, 2012 he was director of the Directorate for Economic Modeling of the CNB. Since 2011-2015 he has worked as an assistant minister at the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Croatia, among other things by function of a series of duties, which goes with the post of official. 2015-2016 at the American Meat Institute in Cambridge, Cambridge, America, visiting scientist and since 2016 the main adviser sector in the research of the CNB. So, all this says that no questionable qualifications of Mr Lang and the HDZ Club will support his appointment in that place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81680	Thank you very much. And Mr. Maras in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81681	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues, here's a greeting to our Istrian women, business women, and I'll see you in Istria another time. I will begin my debate with one question, our fellow citizens, have they ever heard of a fiscal policy commission that should be dealt with and concerned about the transparent spending of money from the Croatian budget. As I believe that the answer of 99% of our citizens would be perhaps even a larger percentage, we have never heard, then the question is whether Croatia has used this tool and whether the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament are using this tool for what it should be, which is that we have one body in which experts are sitting, in which representatives of certain institutions, academic institutions, national banks, etc., who may warn us and should warn us about the risks and fiscal irresponsibility that are taking place in the Republic of Croatia. Now, either everything is beautiful in Croatia and there are no problems or that commission is not doing its job. It's very simple. So I'm letting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia answer the question themselves. Or in Croatia everything works great, there are no problems, here is former Finance Minister Mr. Ivan Shuker or that commission does not do what should be done and does not meet the purpose for which many countries of the world and those of the most developed and less developed in which the Republic of Croatia is unfortunately added up. Now what's that commission supposed to do? This commission should work and analyse certain fiscal risks in the coming years. For example, when we have a situation around Agrokor, the non-transparent conduct of the whole process that we see ends in the same way as we would end up with the old law because the biggest credentials and the new lex Agrokor, the law will become owners, so it's almost all the same, except that the restructuring of the year and three months is done in the way of Mr. Ante Ramljak and Mrs. Martina Dalic, and it would be done by consultants who would be taken by the creditors, so the only thing that changed is the role in this year and three months where Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and Mrs. Martina Dalic chose who would do this restructuring, so they gave the job to a man who was employed by a consultant who had hired and who had never done such work in his life, but it was HDZ's style of work and we were taught it. And must mean in the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility to analyse whether such non-transparent actions are in the future... I will have an individual discussion, stay, so in the future they have some inconspicuous consequences on the Croatian budget. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So HDZ playing and enriching interest groups around Agrokor will probably pay Croatian taxpayers tomorrow. And that is a very clear message that the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility should understand and accept and discuss. And discuss ladies and gentlemen to see what it's all about. Whether someone who has taken responsibility as a Government to appoint believers of their choice means I will take this one, I will take Bilusic, I will take Marica Vidaković, I will take this one from the bank, etc., I will propose them to the court who had no options but to choose these people and for a year and three months to do whatever he wants in the most valuable Croatian company and what we all wanted to see. It was the entanglement of their friends, the making of tens and tens of millions of kunas by consultants of their friends who today, today, are making more money. The question arises if the court has banned new consultants, so how is it that those old consultants continue to earn tens of millions of kunas provided by Ms. Martina Dalic, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic and Mr. Ante Ramljak. And these are the risks that we'll take, my dear citizens, we all pay for the next few years. These money will not bypass taxpayers because such a non-transparent system of settlement and process management in Agrokor will end up watching this, a deal of faith, not the representatives of the believers, but representatives of Mr Ramljak, Mrs Dalic and Mr Plenkovic, to confirm the settlement by those who have already been paid. So we have in the Commissioner's council a man who represents creditors who have already been paid, and that is how we praise our colleagues from HDZ, Prime Minister Plenkovic, we have paid off small suppliers but Mr Bilusic still sits there and decides on behalf of the non-existent credentials. Which paradox has allowed us HDZ is easy to do under the law. And now I'm going to tell you, in my opinion, the situation in Agrokor is the biggest robbery in Croatia since the privatisation of the '90s. After the privatisation of the '90s, what is now happening in Agrokor is the greatest injustice and robbery that has happened in the Republic of Croatia. And there is no need to be silent about it, and this is not to be taken into consideration, says Prime Minister Plenkovic yesterday, it is good that the courts make some decisions, as here are the courts as they work, so they do not agree with all the decisions of the commissioner council and commissioners etc. Look, it doesn't add up to a healthy logic with what you've done there and a healthy logic says that a company that made millions of kunas a year ago can't suddenly make money on one job, $12.13 million, but you made it happen. Texo management smiles, he listens here to MPs Maras and MP Bačić and says so let him talk, I've made the money, tomorrow people will forget it, there won't be anyone responsible because it will all be dissolved and people in the fiscal commission won't have a debate about it. It will not be too much of a concern, and will not make sure that tomorrow the suppliers who announced it like the French, Adria, those who bought bonds, insurance Agram etc., will not sue Mr. Bačić or Mr. Plenkovic, they will sue, or Mr. Vrdoljak, no, or Mr. Pupovac, who also on behalf of minorities, I am now saying this not as chairman but as president of minorities, who support such a procedure...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81682	Just to remind you, what's the topic of the agenda, I won't interrupt you, the motion for a decision to resolve members and appoint a member of the fiscal policy committee, so it's up to you to stick to the subject or not, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81683	Yes, I'm just appealing that the gentleman who will now be appointed to that commission must be considered as a member of the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility. The fact that this HDZ behaviour around Agrokor will have inconceivable fiscal consequences on the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian budget and this is a very important topic and I am sorry and insist that our citizens do not know that such a body exists which is very important, which should play a significant role and which should be alerted to these things that I am talking about, and this should be discussed. When Franck comes and sues Croatia for 500 million kunas because Mr Plenkovic made it that his interest circle Mrs. Martine Dalic takes over the entire Agrokor and works there whatever she wants for a year and 3 months, then they will not come to Mr. Plenkovic, Mr. Bačić, to pay those money but will pay those money to our pensioners and our citizens who fill the Croatian budget. This should be discussed by the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility. It is fiscal responsibility, i.e. what the HDZ is now doing both the HNS and the coalition that supports this whole story, that is fiscal irresponsibility. It's fiscal irresponsibility, it's the easiest thing our people say with some other responsibility to do whatever you want and then no one will ever ask you again because it's all the law. Well, there was also a privatization of the '90s allegedly by the laws that HDZ then passed, and I didn't analyze it, but everyone says it was according to the law, but still injustice and robbery. The same thing is now in Agrokor. By law, but let someone tell me from the people who are watching us today, is it fair that someone can make 12, 13 million kunas in a year practically with two employees and never make that kind of money before? How do you call it different from wrong and robbery? I don't think that's a fair way to make a living. An immoral law can be legal, but deeply immoral and it should never be allowed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And for this reason, we must warn of fiscal irresponsibility and the dissatisfaction of the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility. So this is where we ask the body to be more responsible, that the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, are sitting there. So those who should be giving information, of course, that they are protecting the government of the Republic of Croatia, that is probably why this commission does not fulfil its task at all. And in this way I say once again, this is the way to be warned from the very beginning of those who will be appointed and this is the gentleman who is proposed here by the Finance Committee of the Croatian Parliament, so he must be aware that his voice must be heard and that he must not be satisfied with the fact that he will receive some compensation there and sits indefinitely. We will support this appointment at the SDP Representatives' Club, but we ask for responsibility and we ask that this body fulfils its purpose. And to warn of such things as I said, and something that is inadmissible happened in Agrodor, which is on the burden of taxpayers, the state has been allowed by an intransparent procedure to make a narrow circle of people rich and the worst of all that people are associated with the Croatian government. Thank you very much, Mr. President, it's been a little intense, but people need to understand the context, they need to understand the responsibilities, and they need to know what that body is doing, and I hope that these discussions will contribute to the next time at least 90% of people know or don't know, but now at least 10% of people will know what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81684	Thank you very much, I've been alerant, and you've been shorter, so we've been complemented. Mr. Shucker, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81685	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you injured Article 238 because you did not warn the MP that paragraph 1 should talk about the subject under discussion. So today we are discussing the Committee on Fiscal Policy and fellow Maras has been talking all the time about the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility. So these are the diametric opposites of things. The second thing, based on the Fiscal Responsibility Act, is that a decision has been made...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81686	Thank you very much, it takes 30 seconds now, unfortunately for the new Rules of Procedure. Please, let me defend you, can I? Thank you. I've warned Mr. Maras and otherwise I'm trying to be tolerated so it takes a shorter discussion which Mr. Maras and realized so he shortened his debate, I'm sorry, that's enough I think, that's enough, I think, thank you very much. Now, Mr. Grmoy, in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81687	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I think it is important to highlight when we appoint a person here at the Committee on Fiscal Policy that it is important to highlight what his role is and what this person within that commission will do, or what his obligations and responsibilities are. In fact, one of the tasks of the Commission for Fiscal Policy is to determine the occurrence of a disaster, i.e. the existence of major economic disturbances that have a significant impact on the financial situation of the general budget. Have we heard from this committee one word about the situation around Agrokor? Have they called...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81688	And I must warn you. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81689	I'm talking about this particular subject, I don't know what the problem is, and why are you so nervous?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81690	In the second sentence, you've already moved on to Agrokor. Here you go. Please, don't pollemize with me. [[No, I've just read...]] I tell you, and you go ahead, you go ahead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81691	I don't know what the problem is. Okay. If anyone's got a problem with this...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81692	No, go ahead. Don't pollemize with me, please. Don't pollemize with me. Keep going, keep going, please. ... Go on. [[You can't hear it.]] Sir, next intervention, you'll get a warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81693	So, the point is that this Committee has not fulfilled its function and that we, as parliamentary representatives, should now appeal to the people who will be appointed here, and it is obvious that they will be appointed because they are proposed by the ruling majority, that they do not act as those who were members of this Committee so far have acted. With this commission, we have another important body. It's the Financial Stability Council, which sits with the finance minister all the time saying he didn't know anything about Agrokor, and came from Agrokor. He came from Agrokor, and it is interesting and should be said today, Vice-President of the Parliament, today a year since Minister Maric received only 75 votes here and 75 votes were against his remaining position as finance minister, and we know that this one vote has moved from SDP to the ruling majority. It is exactly one year from that vote and one year from the resignation of former Parliament President God Petrov. And that's what you should say here. There was a resignation, there was a resignation. Don't falsify history and facts, don't falsify the facts of your colleague Bačić, don't be nervous as Vice President Furin means, because here, as Vice President Furio Radin, excuse me for saying the facts here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81694	Please nicely, I warned you three times not to pollute with me and politicize. You don't have that right, so then you have your first warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81695	Another warning? When did I warn you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81696	First warning. ... Because it's pliming with me and it's illegal. [[You can't hear it.]] That's not allowed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81697	Okay. He's throwing himself off my bench, but it doesn't matter, I'll continue my exposure. I'm going to stay calm no matter how upset and nervous some of them are, which is the truth from this place. What's a fact, no one warned about the risks that Agrokor carries. Not a single institution whose job it was. So neither this Committee on Fiscal Policy nor the Council on Financial Stability. We have the fact that the finance minister came from Agrokor, that after that he went to meetings with Todorovic, that he changed his statement at the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest because he first claimed he didn't say anything, and then he changed his statement before the Committee, and that same commission set him free. No one writes about it. Why? Because the current Agrokor, whose head is the Prime Minister appointed by the Government, who corresponds practically and we all know that the government, which is painted with the prime minister, is decided by the prime minister because the former commissioner also left after the prime minister said he no longer has confidence in him, and that is Ante Ramljak. So that man went means, as finance minister, to meetings with Todorovic, and what happened? Nothing happened to him. He is still the finance minister, although he has changed his testimony, although he has lied as a finance minister to one of the institutions of this country and what is the problem and what we insist on, and what some seem to mind is responsibility. Responsibility for procedures, liability for inaction, responsibility for lying to institutions, these are things that need to be changed in Croatia if we want organized society, if we want a regulated state and we will insist as MOST on it. When everyone was silent, we opened the case of Agrokor. We talked about him first, we opened him up in the government. We insisted on the responsibilities of those who brought Agrokor into this situation. We insisted on 3 Commissioners so that this non-transparent process in Agrokor would not happen, so that Ante Ramljak would not engage his former company because then surely that tripartite administration would better control this whole process. After we leave the government there's a roll-up loan going on, all this bad stuff about Agrokor. Why? Because those who now make up the ruling majority, they only hold their positions. They do not question the responsibility of Martina Dalic, nor the Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić, it is important that they do well, and what happens to the Croatian economy, whether some at the break of Agrokora seek to achieve their private particular interests, they do not care. And of course they're nervous about it in the Croatian Parliament. It's clear to me that they're nervous because their conscience bites them. Their conscience bites because they support something that's not good, that can't be supported. I repeat, we will insist here on the responsibilities of all members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, we will insist on the responsibilities of all the members of the Financial Stability Council who did not report at all on these risks that put the Croatian economy at risk in such a way that a special law should be passed for this purpose. But what's bad and what one of our assembly colleagues said here, HDZ doesn't seem to be able to do anything without any tails. They always sell a story about the higher national interest, about how they've done everything to save the Croatian economy, but they're always gonna get the mustache, and that's what we're going to fight, which is what we're going to warn, as nervous as they are, those who make up the ruling majority, because they support such dirty work around Agrokor and everything bad that's going on in Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81698	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya, let's be clear, you got a warning because... Only it's not allowed, and otherwise I let you say what you wanted and how much you wanted, and thank you for being shorter than I said to Mr. Maras, I always thank you for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Davor Vlaovic, the club of representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81699	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, here on behalf of the HSS Club, we will support the election of a new member of the fiscal policy committee. And it's good for us that there is such a commission, although here, from their public address, messages and recommendations, we didn't even know it existed, because there was no reaction. And their very role, as his colleague Grmoja read, is to monitor the implementation of fiscal policies and threaten the financial stability of the system and state. It means monitoring the transparent management of public money and fiscal policies. Is that so, here I've already said, we haven't heard a single reaction about important events. Well, here's the latest, yesterday I was also talking about the decline in industrial production in the Republic of Croatia for four months. In turn, more than 4% compared to the previous 3 months. And this is also the place where this fiscal policy commission should be addressed, because we see a slight reaction and diameter and the finance minister, who says, will analyse this and expect no significant disturbances in this area and that there is an expected growth of 2.8% by the end of the year, and a reduction of 2.7% per year. So this reduction, which they themselves acknowledge to expect, that in 2019 there will be fewer, warns us that something bad is happening on our economic plan and in the implementation of fiscal policies. And that's why I expect this committee to react. Because it certainly is not good that we have a decline in industrial production, which will certainly have a repercusion towards reducing the number of jobs, and we can't expect a growth in wages in the Republic of Croatia, if there is a decline in production, and especially what the prime minister himself says is that this is probably a reaction to the bad situation in the petrokemia of Kutina, Uljanik and I mentioned yesterday that here is the Đura Djakovic group, for the first 3 months, showed a lower income compared to the previous quarter of the previous year, by almost 9.6%. These are serious disorders, where this commission and not only the fiscal policy committee, but also the fiscal responsibility commission, should react, as well as the finance ministry. Because while we have a drop in industrial production on one side, we have our share of that financial system of the bank, which, on the other hand, is a positive business, i.e., is a big profit in their business every year. And on the other hand, we have court rulings that they illegally charged interest and other services, and this commission did not respond. We have blocked citizens, and we have no response from the fiscal policy committee or the fiscal responsibility committee. And here's the thing, the Lex Agror Act, the deal is questionable, not all in the same position, and that's why suppliers react. And certainly there can be, that unless there is a settlement, there is a breach of the total financial system of the Republic of Croatia, because the debts of the company within Agrokor are more than 60 billion, what has been recognised so far, plus what is proven through court proceedings. And what we have warned, here from this pay phone, is that it is possible that no one has responded, nor has this fiscal policy committee, that the Agrokor system shows financial reports that are non-transparent and perhaps illegal, and that only when international financial institutions have warned of this. And additionally, if this is what we're hearing now, even though I haven't received an answer here from either the minister or the diameter, how many bonds have been issued without cover. Now they're dealing with over 10 billion of them. And now the same people who have these bonds are in the basket, in the temporary retirement council with our suppliers, and especially from the HSS, it hurts me that little suppliers aren't all paid. There are more than 200 that are not all paid, some 30% are paid, and they are in the same basket, in that temporary retirement council with these big suppliers, with banks with scavenger funds. And that's not good, which the system didn't respond to, to protect domestic production and domestic suppliers, and we asked for at least 200 suppliers to solve, because if it could be paid more than 500 million kuna for advisors, then it could also be 300 million kunas, as much as these suppliers are looking for, and there are 200 more, which are not fully paid. And now my question is on behalf of the Club, is this commission going to react, i.e., I will ask in writing to show about these topics about Agrokor and about illegal and non-transparent, because they are not all in the same basket of settlement and will, if they do not come to a deal, these consultants return the money? Because that's the supplier's money, so Croatian producers. If he doesn't come, and it's obvious he's not coming, because it wasn't done transparently, we're asking him to return the money, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81700	Thank you, too, and thank you for your compassion. Now I'm moving on to individual debates, Mrs. Dragica Roscic, she's gone, she's losing her right, Mr. Gordan Maras, she has it and she doesn't lose her right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think even after these opening discussions that people are also aware of those who are watching us, and I see slowly and representatives of HDZ who are applying for discussion, who have heard the justified criticisms of the opposition to the lack of the fiscal policy commission, which should have in their part, I would say the work and reporting of the Croatian public on certain fiscal responsibilities and risks next year, but how do you expect ladies and gentlemen to expect the independence of the institution, how do you expect it to warn about the non-transparency that took place around Agrokor and the potential financial risks that this will be for Croatian taxpayers to be in the coming years, when independent experts sitting there who are not allowed to be members of any political party, means academic community, audit or CNB, are doing a job under the chairman of the Finance Committee, members of the HDZ. Well, we don't expect Mrs Grozdan to be there in function, I'm not going to say now that she's just got to do that part of the obviously party discipline and task, but we can't expect her to keep defending her here, says around Agrokor it was great, that she's looking at the meetings of the Committee on Fiscal Policy to consider a certain potential non-transparency and risk for future budgets. That's impossible. So this commission doesn't make sense and it doesn't have the role that it should have and what it has in other countries in the EU and the world. The European Commission also warns us about this. It is not good for a party man, Mrs Grozdana Peric, to sit there and de facto coordinate, direct, speak how this should go, report etc., etc. And then we can't expect her to start some proceedings about Agrokor when all with one eye is alertly followed by her colleague Bacic, president of the HDZ Club. So it doesn't come out of the tracks by any chance. He doesn't miss anything. So that we, ladies and gentlemen, can't get away from it until the law is changed and the funds are provided here, because on the other hand, the means for the work of this committee provides the leadership of the Parliament, the President of the Parliament, the HDZ, Mr Jandrokovic. And now to get a certain critical picture of what was going on around Agrokor, ask God if people would get coffee when they had meetings, etc. So what I want to say now is plastic. This commission must be excluded from politics, we must provide funds, we must provide information, we must remove it from party people, so the chairman of the Finance Committee has nothing to coordinate this commission and we must enable people to get information and do their job in the best possible way and to report to Croatian citizens about potential problems that are on the agenda and not transparency about Agrokor. The risks to budgets and fiscal responsibilities around Agrokor are immeasurable. It is hundreds of millions of kunas that can potentially fall on the burden and back of taxpayers tomorrow because of this process management. As Mr. Grmoya said, the easiest way to call yourself and say these are more national interests, to throw the flossula was 6 kuna on the bill, I mean it's really amazing. 6 kuna on the account and says here we didn't bring lex Agrokor, those 6 kunas wouldn't be enough to function but I'm saying that you didn't bring lex Agrokor, Texo Menagment would never get the 12 million kuna contract he got. If you hadn't brought Lex Agrokor, the PRs from Mrs. Dalic who worked with her would have never had such a job in Agrokor before. Those who wrote the law, the other consultants, lawyers, would never get without the Lex Agrodor tens of millions of kunas that could fall on the burden of taxpayers tomorrow. That's what we need to talk about here, and as little as it seems to be that one person's appointment in the commission doesn't have too much to do with it, oh yes, it has a lot to do with it because tomorrow this man can look for data, he can analyze, he can watch, he can warn. The commission should report to the Croatian public twice a year. When in the Croatian public, was the announcement of the Committee on Fiscal Policy expected in the media? Well, nobody's ever given it up, nobody's even interested in it, and that's enough telling you what his role is. I told you to ask the citizens of the Republic of Croatia how many of them even know about this institution, no one would know. So we can't pretend to work on transparency, to do something that should help manage the Republic more responsibly, and basically nothing is done. It is a form to satisfy the form, to prove ourselves as here we have done something, let us try to be transparent and essentially do nothing and on this side I propose to the Croatian Parliament and MPs that we consider changing the law, that it is that greater independence, greater access to information and then you will be sure to give people a warning on time, and perhaps even when you bring lex Agrokor, at the possible risks that this law has brought to the taxpayers because then instead of consultants within Agrokor they will hire legal consultants who will then say that if we adopt this law all falls, the risk falls on the back of the Croatian state and taxpayers. Don't let the consulting firms get away with it, be careful that the whole storm lasted for two weeks, Mr. Ante Ramljak resigned and these are still rich in those invoices that continue inside Agrokor because Mr. Fabris said I can't break it, it has nothing to do with me. And how could they break this decision now not to make deals with new consultants, how is it possible that there was a will, that there was no interest much greater and wider perhaps than what we are seeing at this point? It would probably have been interrupted if it hadn't been for HDZ, Mrs. Dalic, in the interest of Texo's management consultants still making big money. That would probably have been interrupted a long time ago, and that moment would have been interrupted as Mr. Grmoya said Mr. Ante Ramljak had to leave from today to tomorrow. Until yesterday on the Committee on Economy, he seemed very confident, told us stories like homework from elementary school, and some were warm around the heart as he came there, St. Ante mentioned things, entering a nuclear reactor, etc., and eventually the day after that, he resigned because politics, HDZ told him to move away. So why don't politics and HDZ tell Texo management get out of Agrokor, it's not fair that you make 12 million kunas because it's a group of people, an interested group of people. I'm not saying that all HDZ people are connected, but one good part of those who make decisions, Mrs. Martina Dalic says they're her friends, that she knows them very well, and they still make big money. I'm only surprised at HDZ deputies that they can do it peacefully without any anxiety, any discomfort, any discomfort to watch and continue to support it. It's just not right. Try to understand that at this moment thousands of people are leaving Croatia because they cannot achieve their bread and their perspective in Croatia while some with smiles are rich and say it is normal and that it should be so. No need, let's move away from the privatisation of the '90s, from the law, from the interest circles around Škegra, Martina Dalic etc. And that's why I hope Mr. Lang, no matter what the law limits him, which is Mrs. Grozdan's, who is probably the first fuse and Mr. Bačić as the second main clutch fuse that is trying to protect the whole process, and we probably won't have any movement on that side, but let's give Mr. Maroy Lang support to try something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81702	Thank you, too. Now you will be replicated by Mr. Bolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81703	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Maras, the law was a tool to buy time, to lay down some things but any tool or weapon can be used in the way in which the one who uses it can be used for good and can be used to please his friends, his, means former associates. And you're right when you say that this team that came out of Shkegri's incubator used this process around Agrokor to profit. In order to earn the Texo Managment 12 million kuna a year, a company that has made a living by then, I mean about a million kunas. It means only in this process of Agrokor. And to no one, Ante Ramljak is gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81704	Mr. Thundery Time. Mr. Misic, go ahead. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The answer to the replica, I saw you, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81705	Thank you very much. So far, no one's doing anything 'cause that crew and that company are moving on. The only surprise I'm telling you is that some MPs support it. For example, it is unclear how it is possible overnight to change the view that you will not support Mrs. Martin Dalic, such as some representatives of national minorities by tomorrow we will support her with two hands in the air. These are things that have nothing to do with the protection of minorities. So very clearly, it's a matter of transparency, it has nothing to do with whether minorities have a better situation or not having a better situation. This has to do with the interests of Agrokor and concrete interests in government behaviour. And that's what our citizens need to hear, that's what we need to know. So we in Croatia need to show very clearly who stands for what. It stands for minorities and who advocates that this authority survives for as long as possible to the last hundredths and seconds of this authority and thus achieves certain interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81706	Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81707	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm really surprised that you don't know what's causing it and what's the consequence. What's the cause? The reason is that in 2011 to 2015, during your government when you ruled, Agrokor was the highest in debt and today this same bank is co-owned by 45%. It's during your government's command. What's the consequence? The consequence is that today this government is dealing with these problems that you've brought and you haven't controlled, when Agrokor lived and worked, you haven't controlled him, why he's raising loans from Russian banks when all the European banks didn't give him credit. It was a signal for you to have to go into the process and see how it all stands. And the consequence is that this government today has this Agrokor that, by all parameters, we look normally to solve, of course, now someone is making Texo managers, it's by law that we can't challenge and we have to give the experts to solve when the non-professionals did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81708	Thank you very much, Mr. Misic, thank you, thank you, time. Mr. Maras, who was a minister in that government, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81709	Thank you very much. Mr. Mišić yes, the fact is that while Zdravko Maric was in charge of borrowing the biggest loans were raised and that I know what caused and what resulted, let's say the naivety and kindness of the Living Wall is the reason that you entered the Assembly. So if they weren't so kind to you and naive because they thought you wouldn't go with HDZ you'd see the Parliament on TV alone, you'd probably look at us somewhere from your home right now and analyze what Mr. Bačić, Schuker or me would say. But as Mr. Pernar and Mr. Sincic were quite kind and somewhat politically naive to you because they believed you would not support HDZ, you came on the list, you were chosen...... So they won't tell me that you came in on your own merits and not thanks to the Living Wall in the Croatian Parliament? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Speakers speak at the same time, do not understand. [[You can't hear the intruder. is, is that basically you're them...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81710	Mr. Maras time, third time time, fourth time warning. Write a note to Mr. Maras, though around time I'm worried here. Time is still a measurable thing, math... Listen, if he was throwing you, you have a duty not to talk about it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81711	Dear colleagues. The Commission for Fiscal Policy was founded in 2014 so during your term of office, and then I am surprised that you are now surprised that the position of the president or president of the commission is a party person. In addition, the commission has since I led seven reports that have come to the meetings of the Committee on Finance, where you are very rarely present and where you did not even want to read what the commission found or what it had discovered. If you wanted to read it, you also have on the Assembly’s web pages, so you can see what was done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81712	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81713	Thank you very much. Mrs. Peric, it didn't determine anything. I don't want to be a fig leaf to pretend we're discussing something out there, we're establishing, etc., and nothing's been determined. And yes, you're right in 2014 it was founded, but why are you denying me the right to see that something was wrong in 2014 and I'm giving you my hand let's change it together. So don't stop looking behind you all the time, which was 2014, which was 2011, 2007, sixth, fifth, so we're not going to do anything better. I say in front of the Croatian public that in 2014, it wasn't good for the Committee on Fiscal Policy, here it is. And what happened to me? I admit it. So I can make a mistake too, we can make a mistake, but the worst ones are the ones who think they can't make a mistake and won't admit their mistake. Still defending Texo Management and Agrokor and saying it's right, you're the worst, not those who are able to admit your mistake, I admit it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81714	Thank you very much. Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81715	Thank you very much. So by circumstances, I was the minister who proposed the Fiscal Responsibility Act on the basis of which on 18 December 2013 the Commission was sitting. And it would be good for everyone who debates in this article to read Articles 3 and 8 and 9. The fiscal responsibility law to get concepts of what is a disaster and what are major economic disorders. But it's very interesting when we in the debates, I realize that colleagues want to use this to bring some things out, it's their democratic right, but let's discuss the facts. Could this have been someone's instrument to open up some kind of debate if it could be ordered? The second thing is, here's a colleague of Lalovac, who was the finance minister in the SDP government, he didn't once like the Commission's assessment of fiscal policy. Look at what his job is, and don't say that something is information, and it's not a task.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81716	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81717	Well, Mr. Shucker, here we go again in that way that whatever it was, when it was, what it was, who it was, look, it doesn't matter. We make laws and work for the future. I want to be a man of the future, not a man of the past means that we are constantly burying ourselves in what was in 2007, the ninth, the eleventh, who was a minister, who liked what, who was what he was bringing, etc. Now let's agree on one thing, is it better that this body is independent of politics and whether it's better or not or we're still going to talk about, I think it's better, that it's better that a member of the party, whether it's HDZ today, and yesterday the SDP is not at the head of that body. This body must be independent and must warn of certain things, and it would likely warn much more to organise it. That's all I'm saying, don't see any bad intentions in everything. This is an honest well-intentioned suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81718	Thank you very much. We have problems with World War II, Mr. Maras. We have problems over World War II. You're not going to condition that we don't have problems around 2011. And now at the end of the last line, Mr. Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81719	Your Honor, Mr. President. A colleague of Maras. You've said a lot here, and at least what's on the subject, and you've called HDZ representatives to calmly observe the processes in Agrokor, stressing that they're negative and that this is some kind of possible crime. The last thing you said was that we weren't going back in time, but we were looking into the future, but what matters most to us and to our voters is the present. The present where the Agrokora problem has escalated, and you knew very well about it as a minister and did nothing about it. That's the key to the whole story. HDZ is doing its best to solve this problem and we all hope that we can solve it. And you're acting by the principle of what's worse because for political reasons, it would be appropriate for you to have Agrokor fail, to go bankrupt, to go to 30 and a few thousand people on the street and blame the HDZ government for that, then you'd be overjoyed. It's your policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81720	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81721	Thank you very much. For a moment, I felt like I was in that show where you have a psychiatrist who can perceive how you feel. You see, Mr. Felak knows exactly how I would feel at what point. Mr. Felak, first of all, you don't know what's in my interest, it's in my interest for the government to behave responsibly and not to use the situation as it is now being used, which is that the circle of people around the government makes enormous money. Enough of Croatian citizens of well-meaning, good wishes for HDZ. We watched that in the '90s in privatisation, let's go from socialist to capitalist in a hurry, and it's privatized all together. That's what we watched during Sanader, FIMI media, and we're looking at it now in Agrokor and Texo management. That's enough for Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81722	Thank you, Mr. Maras. Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81723	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, it seems good to me that this morning, in the context of the debate on the amendment of the decision to set up the Committee on Fiscal Policy, we also touched on Agrokora and that, in a completely different way, the debate on the decision itself is on the agenda. First of all, let me say something about whether it's both professional and independent or party-painted or party-colored commission, so I'd like to read or specify who's doing this commission. Representative of the State Audit Office, representative of the Economic Institute, representative of the Institute of Public Finance, representative of the CNB, representative of the Faculty of Economics and representative of the Faculty of Law. Therefore, I must say that I do not see the extent to which this party's commitment and colour in this body is present, except in the section in which the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the Croatian Parliament is chaired, but I say one of the seven members is. I believe that a colleague of Lalovac is uncomfortable listening to and hearing what his colleague Maras and other colleagues are talking about that way coming forward here this morning at a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament. Not to say that today we are discussing, in fact, the appointment of a person who was the assistant minister of Linic and Minister Lalovac while they were finance ministers. You can think of this party's blindness of HDZ, which gives support to the decision that a member of this committee is named until yesterday's Assistant Minister Boris Lalovac and Mr. Slavko Linic. And that's what my colleague Maras says dead-coldly as we here in the Parliament are party-colored, as we observe everything through party glasses, and we support man to be a member of the Committee for Fiscal Policy of the Croatian Parliament who by yesterday created a policy of the Republic of Croatia in part of finance, making a budget, monitoring all financial developments in Croatian public finances. Thus, so much about how and who in this Assembly is performing partyly when it comes to the interest of the Republic of Croatia to settle finances, public finances in the Republic of Croatia. But while we are already on Agrokor, everything that has happened and has contributed and led to the breakdown of Agrokor, most of it happened at the time of the SDP's management of Croatia. So when I hear a colleague of Maras now, how and in what way he's accusing amongst other things and this commission, which at the time did not respond when suspicious financial transactions were happening in Agrokor. I would remind you of one text that is very indicative to me and which may shed another light on the work of this commission because when then the minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives a statement that says, I quote: it is a great success of the Croatian economy, but primarily of Agrokora. Congratulations, Agrokor and Ivica Todorovic, who achieved great entrepreneurial success, expanded his company to, now I'm not going to, the regional market. Says Gordan Maras, the moment Agrokor... Takes over Mercator. [[You can't hear them.]] Therefore, if Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has declared that Mercator's one acquisition by Agrokor a top event in the Croatian economy, congratulating Ivica Todorovic to spread Agrokor to the regional market, and Mercator's acquisition was the last nail in the case of Agrokor before the Law on Extra-Government, then I wouldn't even be surprised that this Committee for Fiscal Policy which did not recognise how this was sought by counterpart Maras who did not recognize that somewhere in the Croatian financial economic system is the problem of Agrokor which will lead to the collapse of the financial and economic system in the Republic of Croatia. [[Please, please.]] However, another government came in different ways to approach Agrokor and not in those disastrous decisions by Ivica Todorovic and the Agrokor administration saw such great business successes in the Croatian market, but made the Law on the Extraordinary Administration, which preserved the largest private Croatian company, not because of Ivica Todorovic, but to save the debtor through the rescue of Agrokor, its creditors, primarily suppliers of Croatia, Croatian suppliers, whether they are small suppliers, small entrepreneurs, OPGs or larger suppliers in Croatia. And if there were no intervention with the Emergency Administration Act, then we would be witnessing bankruptcy, job losses, disturbances, if I didn't say a breakdown, the Croatian financial system, we wouldn't be witnessing a record tourist season, then we wouldn't be witnessing either GDP growth or GDP growth, nor would this lead to the first surplus of the state budget of 2 billion, 750 million kuna for 2017, this would not lead to a decrease in public debt to 78% of GDP in Croatia, but rather from the state budget, which would only then have something to say about this fiscal policy commission, testify that at an annual level, for a resolution, a problem which would result in the collapse of Agrokora would be caused by the Croatian budget due to benefits for the unemployed and other fees of over a billion and 200 million kuna per year, which would be around 3.5 billion kuna, as long as the intervention process would have taken place in RHRR was the problem. And that this law is good to do, that it is well designed, that it is in fact on the trail of what the European Commission proposes to its members, and that is when a single solvency law in Europe, such as in Croatia, is a bankruptcy law and a law on pre-profit settlement, cannot satisfy the demands of the state to preserve its own economy, it also proposes to intervene with a new law, such as the Law on Extra-Government, which will enable the rescue of the Croatian economy. And based on that law, we'll probably be a colleague of Maras by July 10th, testifying, signing a deal. And I will also tell you that I am pleased, I must tell you, just as a parliamentary representative, who raised his hand for this law, that the Croatian judiciary, the commercial courts in Croatia, are repealing the decisions of the extraordinary commissioner and for the reasons, which is the best indication, that by this law, that this company, through this procedure, which we have brought here in this House, is fully supervised by the Croatian judiciary. And that the Croatian judiciary is not through the Law on Extraordinary Administration, reduced to a public notary or some observer, events in the company, but has the power, whenever it assesses, to abolish the decisions of an extraordinary commissioner, i.e., extraordinary administrations and return them to the system, as far as it is intended by bankruptcy law. Therefore, I might wish it hadn't happened, but the event best shows that the law allowed the Croatian judiciary to fully control the Law on the Extraordinary Administration of the work of an extraordinary commissioner and the work of an extraordinary administration. Therefore, we will hear the words of the Constitutional Court, which is with that law, but I would have set you up, if you were against that law, that your first lawyer of your club, if I may call him so, the former chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, has now filed a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of that law. I don't know how the Constitutional Court will react, but I know that after that, you have tried to amend this same law yourself, announced on your precedent its change, its amendment, which will significantly improve relations in Agrokor, however, such a bill of law that you... He didn't come to the assembly, nor did we see him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, on the one hand, you claim that something is unconstitutional, on the other hand you would change it, on the third hand, I share an opinion with Mr. Felak, I am not sure whether you would like it or whether it is in your interest that this problem of Agrokora should be resolved or that you would be the happiest to have the bankruptcy in Agrokor performed on the Croatian streets.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81724	Thank you very much, thank you. We have nine replicas, another 12. First replica, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81725	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues, now Croatian citizens can see in essence how shameless HDZ is, when the president of the HDZ Club compares one statement, not the Croatian minister, not the Croatian representative, but the Croatian citizen, who is pleased that Croatian companies are doing something, with the Texo Managment. So Mr. Bačić is the same, whether Mr. Maras, three or four years ago, said something like many others in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian company's favorites, is the same as someone who took 12 million kn in one year. He's even worse off with what his colleague Maras said. And some enthusiastic here clap like Mr. Pupovci in the hall. Shame on you. Shame on you, 12 million kunas were taken in a year, and you honor me with a statement from three years ago let the Croatian citizens hear it and let them know who it is. HDZ is shameless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81726	Thank you very much. ... Thank you very much, please don't throw away, please don't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm sorry, don't... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'll give you five minutes, please. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't work like that, you can't work like that, you can't take five minutes off. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We'll continue at 10.50. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[/Intruder: HDZ and SDP argue who is more responsible for Agrokor, so what is this?]] [[You want to protect me?]] [[You're responsible for each other.]] It's 10:00.45. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.50 HOURS]] I left five more minutes for you to cool off. Are you cold? Yeah, if you're cold, let's move on. [[We did, we did.]] Replication response, replica reply. ... Okay, fine, but there's got to be a reply to the replica first. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The answer to Mr. Bacic's replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I agree with your break that you tried to calm down the debate in the Parliament, so I almost forgot what my colleague Mars was replicating to me. But I do know that he's replicated a part of me that applies to fees, counseling fees, and that's why he's accusing us of parliamentary agents. So I would remind him that all decisions made by an extraordinary commissioner, that he agrees with them at the level of the religious council, and that religious council is usually a copy of future owners. Therefore, the funds were not allocated by parliamentarians from the state budget, but provided by voluntary means, by decision of future owners and by the current creditors of Agrokor himself. And otherwise, I would recommend to my colleague, Maras, that when the attack of other MPs, when he insults, he belittles himself to be equally willing to hear them, and in an identical way to get an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81729	Thank you very much, time, my sin. Mr. Maras whether you want to look for a break in the middle of the replica now or, said he was looking for it, said he was looking, please, he said, he said. Here you go from the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81730	I'm asking you to allow me 248th to explain my position. ... But it doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81731	Please, please, if it's such a longing to get out of here, let it be done. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81732	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81733	You want me to take another break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81734	Can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81735	He started talking. Before he gets hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81736	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask according to the Rules of Procedure, you have been seen by Mr. Pupovac, please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81737	So don't give the word, Mr. Maras, don't give the word. Next warning, Mr. Maras, you have no right to speak of this point anymore. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81738	But the gentleman was waving.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81739	Do you understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81740	I'm begging you, so let me say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81741	Come on, talk to me, tell me where you want to end up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81742	Okay, thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament seek a break on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP in order to consult on the situation that was created and for the first time in history by a representative here in the Croatian Parliament was attacked because he was protecting public money and public interest and it was that when I became a minister in 2011 during the HDZ government, more than 50 million kunas were public money, not used in municipalities and cities that did not use it for business zones. In a few years, I have introduced order and those who did not use public money from Croatian citizens by means of contracts, I have returned that money to the Croatian budget. I'm proud of it, and that's how I'd always do it. And everyone had the opportunity to honor the contract, everyone had the opportunity to invest that money in the entrepreneurial zones, and that's what I insisted on. It is outrageous that in the Croatian Parliament someone who protects the public interest, the budget money, the tax money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, attacks here that he did something negative, in the first wave, not at all understandably what it is but I am proud of my work as a minister and so I would always do, I have no tails behind me. And that's what I want to tell the Croatian citizens here, and that's why we're looking for a 10-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81743	And you have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I repeat, you wanted to perform so much from the pay phone, it's not hard for me to give you a pay phone for two minutes, even though you have no right to do so, but the fact that you can't give or deny the word to the MPs. And for that, Mr. Maras, that I'm not as tolerated as I am you could get another warning and then you could go to lunch. And now I'm gonna give those two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will allow these two injuries to be committed to the Rules of Procedure. First Mr. Pupovci.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81744	May I stand up, Mr. President, Chairman? Can I get up?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81745	But you can sit down any way you want. Whatever you want, you can sit down, get up, anyway, and if it gets crowded because everyone's nervous because Friday, it looks like, if there's any more traffic in the O.R., I'll give you five more minutes off and let the people calm down. Here, you can get up, you can, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81746	Can I get up? Did you ask your colleague Maras if I could get up? [[Intruder Radin: You can.]] Mr. Vice-President, the opinion and decision of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of this Chamber and, at the request of the vice-president of that same committee and our colleague, Peja Grbina, the provision of the Rules of Procedure to which fellow Maras was called, which, when asked for a break and an explanation, does not go for a pay phone, is spoken from the bench. [[Intruder Radin: You can.]] The members of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure can testify here, and here is actually the word...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81747	Unfortunately, time. Here you go. Mr. Reiner has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Grandma? [[You can't hear it.]] All right, Mr. Bacic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81748	I thank Mr. Vice President, all of this which is a colleague of Pupovac, I can confirm as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system that this is exactly what the Committee on the Constitution has discussed and that it has made a decision that has actually continued practice in the Croatian Parliament since there is an institute of rest, and that when the club is looking for a break of 10 minutes to discuss the item of the agenda, it is then that break of two minutes is explained from the place where it sits here in its assembly. So in that sense it's not... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81749	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr. Shucker, come in. Mr. Shucker, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... Okay. [[You can't hear it.]] I have to apologize to you. Petrov? Here you go. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81750	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I would like to warn Mr Branko Bačić to read the Rules of Procedure, Art. 44th because his ruling majority brought this Rules of Procedure. It's clearly in art. 44. what committees should do, in what way committees should do, and decisions taken by committees, where they should be discussed and who should be familiar with it, and if something is in the Rules of Procedure, then it is interpreted as being in the Rules of Procedure, and not as Mr. Bačić would like it because there is... As we please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81751	Time, thank you very much. I... What's the matter? I apologize to you if you think I was wrong, but he wanted Mr. Maras so much, he wanted to talk to this pay phone so much that I gave him to speak from the pay phone because I didn't have a heart, but if you're right, Mr. Petrov, then I apologize to you, and I guess he'll be at the hearing again somewhere, I guess on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and then you'll say again that this Committee can't say anything that doesn't stand in the Rules of Procedure and that Rules of Procedure is otherwise unspeakable and that's for sure. I'm giving him 10 minutes off now, not because of indiscipline, but because Mr. Maras asked me to, and I have no heart to say no to him, and neither does the Rules of Procedure. It's 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81752	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.10 HOURS]] Please take your seats. So we'll continue with the replicas, now she'll speak to the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash. Excuse me, reply to the replica, please. I guess one day someone's going to suggest that he pull up the session, talk from the gallery, I don't know, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81753	Okay, well, in addition to that, considering the cybernetics world, we may be at home talking, but the joke aside, my replica to the esteemed representative, Bačić, went to another story. I've worked with my colleague, Maro Lang, and I can absolutely say all the best about it, and there's absolutely no objection to the fact. I'm going back on the subject, so the topic is open and it's spread to Agrokor but there's nothing we're discussing that's not Agrokor. However, I have a small dilemma here, so it might be convenient to clarify that. A colleague does not live in Croatia. My colleague Lang lives in Washington, he's gone to Washington, he lives there, so I'm just wondering how you imagined that he'd be working on that commission and everything, so here's what you might do to clarify my dilemma or something else because he doesn't live in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81754	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81755	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Mrak-Taritash, when I was talking about Mr Lang, I spoke first of all about how party blindness, the exclusion in this House, when HDZ is not there, that we are here today defending this decision in the fact that this decision in the Committee on Fiscal Policy is appointed until yesterday's Assistant Minister Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance and Boris Lalovac. His promoter is CNB, he is their employee, therefore the issue should be addressed to the CNB, I am sure that the CNB would not propose to this commission a person who does not meet all the conditions that a member of the Croatian Labour Body can meet, and therefore he is indeed in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81756	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81757	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, in your presentation, you tried to explain to your colleague Maras what the reasons for selecting this member is today's subject of debate. A colleague, Maras, took the opportunity to call on everyone else and warn them of lack of conscience, including representatives of national minorities, including my club. And I would ask him at this point if you would ask him, where was his conscience when he was a minister and when little entrepreneurship was being destroyed, and where was his conscience when the Ministry's money was being used for its own promotion through one daily newspaper that was yesterday spoken of on the council of anti-corruption where a journalist testified about it? Is this his conscience that teaches us lessons here today and wants to determine how we will think and how we will act politically?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81758	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81759	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Pupovac, just before he was provoked by my debate by my colleague Maras hurt and insulted me personally, and after his colleague Loncar had cited some of the reasons that had discredited him at the time, he asked for a break on behalf of the SDP club so that, although he should have done so from his post, he said that his colleague Loncar was wrong and that things were completely different. I believe that after this step of yours and your replica and after yesterday's debate in the Croatian Parliament, counterpart Maras will react in the same way and show and prove that it is not true. I would then forward that question to my colleague, Maras, so let him in the way he thinks it's most appropriate to answer that charge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81760	Thank you very much. This way, before we go any further, we'll welcome the II students. The high school from Zagreb and the Vukovar High School which are at our gallery above. And before we go any further, I'd like to ask all my colleagues who participate in any way in the form of replicas, reply to replicas and all, please, we're holding topics. [[Applause.]] We stick to the subject, I see that we've strayed, I see that passions have been a little excited, etc., let's calm down a little passion and stick to the subject, the subject is the proposal for a decision to resolve members and appoint a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, let's remind you, that's the topic, everything else is not a topic. I know it takes a man sometimes and we go a little wider, but let's just go narrow down on the subject. So the next replica will be the esteemed representative of Ivica Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81761	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, about the expert commission you spoke of, I personally think it is a very professional commission which, of course, the banks probably also other co-workers found professional people. However, I have to go back a little bit to Mr. Maras' earlier name, me as I entered the Parliament and as I do politics. Unlike him, I have 40 years of work experience, of course, I entered over 2 parties, not through them or those through me or us, no matter how, with one good experience in the economy, while Mr. Maras was a minister with 2 years of work experience and all this says about him that a man in our country can be a minister with two years of working experience and run some state-owned business policy. Of course we can see how it's been done like that for us today. I have paid my job as a man and citizen of this country and taxes, therefore out of humiliation that some calls me who never in life and could say you are SDP's ear. I ain't nobody's catch.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81762	Thank you. My colleague Bačić's answer. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81763	Article 238 was injured so first Mr. Misic answered all the time about what I said, not what Mr. BAčić said and ultimately insulted me. So me who got almost 14,000 votes, Mr. Misic a thousand and something then he talks about how he deserves to be in the Croatian Parliament. He calls me by ear, and if it wasn't for his Living Wall, he'd be watching Parliament on TV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81764	Okay, I'm asking you nicely to judge that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, but I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject, to stick to the subject. I'm here to remind you once again the theme said. I took the lead session, I realized that before the passions were very upset, that they were mentioned both various and personal things etc., I ask you not to continue with it but to go into the core of the topic and to talk about the subject of peace and dignity of this home. Here's my colleague, Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Misic, so I wouldn't claim to eat or not Mr Maras caught and whose is he. If you looked at such a narrow party and HDZ then I would also be glad that he was a minister because he was a bad minister and then based on being a bad minister was also a bad government. This is why we took responsibility in 2015 and 2016 by winning the elections. As a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I am sorry that he was not a better minister and that he was not in that portfolio he managed achieved better results, but I am saying that he was a better minister and the entire government would probably not have taken responsibility for Croatia's leadership today. And whether he ate it or not, I really wouldn't go in. Mr. Maras is here in the Parliament an active representative and I can't say that he isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81766	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81767	Thank you. Dear colleague BAčić, you are very much trying to explain all this stuff to us about Agrokor, but unfortunately, who believes in it more. Outside these walls of the Parliament, reality is more cruel. This morning I came on a fast train from Kutina that traveled for an hour and 30 minutes, 30 years ago driving 50 minutes. There was a lady from Vinkovac in the '50s with a large suitcase that takes 3.5 hours to Zagreb, and she said where it takes her an hour and a half. All these problems that we're talking about here around Agrokor, who knows how deep that water is and who's to blame. It's all our fault that both you and we and all those who appear here are guilty of this whole story because some of the failures have allowed some of us to participate in what happened in Agrokor, and some people are going to grab the big money as it turns out here now and in these times of crisis that this is happening. Let's try to work this out, let's not argue anymore about who's to blame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81768	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81769	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lenart, I agree with you that the fact that Agrokor happened to none of us can rejoice, however, we must be sorry that Agrokor happened and the greatest responsibility lies with the first person and owner of the concerts, but all those who have allowed this problem to happen. But when he happened to a colleague, Lenart, then what I'm saying was that this law was the best way to save that debtor, not because of him, but primarily because of employees and the entire economic system that was largely based on Agrokor. You ask me who believes more, trusts those who are most interested, and these are primarily creditors who will be future owners and I hope they also believe employees who did not lose their jobs last year because of the law. And whether we politicians believe or not because of our narrow particular party interests is our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81770	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81771	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart BAčić, there was a conflict here in the assembly that was more responsible for the situation around Agrokor. Croatian citizens clearly know who is responsible. The responsibility of those who ruled Croatia throughout this period is responsible, of course, you went to show the SDP, of course he was responsible for the SDP, but he was responsible to a lesser extent if he acted less in power than HDZ. And your responsibility has been shown by you because you went to put out a parliamentary investigation committee. If Gordan Maras is responsible for the Agrokora situation, then we should have come to this through the Parliamentary Investigation Commission. I don't take it up, so I think it's part of the responsibility, but why did you go to put out the parliamentary investigation committee? Is it for Skegra, is it for Zdravko Marić, is it for Martina Dalic, for whom you shut down the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on Agrokor and who you were protecting?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81772	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grmoi, and you and I took an oath when we became representatives of the Croatian Parliament, which is that we will respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Well, just because we swore to it, we shut down that commission because his work was against the law. Therefore, when something is contrary to the law, then we as parliamentarians, and in particular we are talking about the law on investigative commissions that ceases to work when the investigation becomes a forceful one. I believe in the Croatian judiciary, it could be better, but the institutions, which are the best in this country, for which they have been established, are conducting an investigation and those who judge under these investigations, that in this particular case they will determine the responsibility of all those who have acted irrefutablely in the part, which relates to this situation, Agrokor. And not for us whose commission served primarily as a political stage, and less concern was for the employees and the believers of Agrokor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81774	Thank you, my colleague Grumoja has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which point of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81775	Point 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81776	No, it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81777	What isn't true?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81778	It's just not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81779	Do you know the Honorable Vice President that I wanted to say? Can I speak to this new Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament at all?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81780	I know he wasn't hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81781	Or you want to shut me up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81782	No, I'm just telling you in advance to abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81783	I'm asking you if you want to shut me up completely or can I say my position?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81784	You may state your position, but in the beginning you began to abuse the institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81785	Dear Vice President, Knight Reiner, can I still mean in this House to state my position, to warn of a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81786	Here you go. And bear the consequences if it's abuse, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81787	Well, I'm aware of the consequences because I'm telling the truth and I'm ready for it, I'm ready for it. So, counterpart Bacic, he cheats on the public when he claims he's investigating the Agrokor procedure related to what was the task of the investigative commission. If fellow Maras is responsible for his inactions and his statements because Agrokor is in trouble, it may not have anything to do with criminal liability, but it has to do with political responsibility. And we were going to deal with Vladimir Seks' political responsibility, but he, you were protecting him, we all know why, we were thinking of dealing with the political responsibility of Boris Skegre, but you're protecting him. We know why, etc. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] That's what we're interested in. That has nothing to do with criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81788	Thank you very much, comrade Grmoy. As I told you in advance, you abused the Rules of Procedure. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 238, there is no speech at all, and I give you another warning, another warning, because you already have one warning, therefore you know what the other warning means. I wanted to warn you in advance not to do it, you insisted on it, go ahead. A colleague, Panenic, has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which point of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81789	Thank you very much, I appeal to article 238, and you've interfered with your incursion of representatives to state their position on the defense of his cause for breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you didn't let him explain, I would understand that he explained it, so that after that you made a certain point of view, however, this way you went ahead of something that you didn't really know what to say. The fact that you may be observing the future is no reason to interfere with any MP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81790	I was well - meaning to advise my colleagues not to put themselves in this situation. It was mine, as the chairman it was my intention, he still insisted on it, of course he could have done it and done what he did. Here you are, colleague Petrov, here you are, in which the Rules of Procedure has been injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81791	The Rules of Procedure of 238, and I must say, that I would like to ask you for an interpretation as far as I can see, should be interpreted by the board, since you are at the same time the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, so here, I would ask for an interpretation, to discuss what it means to be disdained by MPs. I'd really like to, maybe we have different concepts of demeaning. For me, demeaning is bringing down the untruth and thus destroying the credibility, dignity and intelligence of the parliamentary representatives, which Mr. Bačić did. Maybe disdaining you means something else, so I'd like to ask you to spread your word to me in the Rules of Procedure, since you're the chairman of the board, you're the best and you know it. You have already done so with previous practice, where is the Committee on the Constitution The Rules of Procedure and the Political System make decisions by the ruling majority. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81792	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrov, you know that you have now abused the Rules of Procedure, too, because in Art. The 138th doesn't say anything about it at all. Therefore, demeaning is very clear, which is demeaning, and if you do not understand, I ask you to refer to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the question of what it means to belittle, so the Committee will define what it is. If you think that's unclear. It's pretty clear to me what it means to belittle someone, which doesn't mean to belittle someone. We have nothing to discuss further. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81793	Dear Vice President, I'm going to steal for a while, since you called me and told me to direct, if I wanted to, I must answer your request. [[Intruder Reiner: You can't co-work.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81794	No, you can't. You can't answer me. Comrade Petrov, please sit down. ... [[Intruder Petrov: I will not direct for the reason I know, how you will judge.]] You cannot speak, I take away your word, I warn you, I give you a warning. [[Intruder Petrov doesn't understand.]] The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Vilibor Sincic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81795	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bačić, in your speech, you have transferred responsibility to this menu to the right side of the assembly, however, I will only ask the question, to all those who have exercised authority in this Chamber, their colleagues, ministers, who come to us here to represent us. If we know from London, at least since 2006, there's been a fake report, I ask you all, what did you do when the fake report was faked in 2006? What did you do when the report was faked in 2007? What did you do when Todorovic faked the reports in 2008? What did you do when Todorovic faked the reports in 2009? What did you do when Todorovic faked the reports in 2010? What did you do when he faked the reports in 2011? When did 2012 fake reports?, When did 2013 fake reports? When was 2014 faked the reports? When did he fake the reports in 2015? When did 2016 fake reports? And what's worse for us today is we don't exactly have a settlement report because there's a whole series of fences by the auditors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81796	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sincic, you've referred me countless questions that I assume you know the answers to, so I don't need to answer that. But if you do not know, I will remind you that in the Republic of Croatia there is a system of control and supervision and audit of the business of companies in the Republic of Croatia why companies are established in the Republic of Croatia and in the world that are responsible for the presentation of views, opinions and audits of individual companies. Therefore, so do I, but then you as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, not as a parliamentary representative, if you had in any way information that these audits that were doing along the road for a time respectable, reputable companies, you could have reported it as I did... So do I. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81798	The answer of the esteemed, not, excuse me. You're a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81799	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Bačić was violated by an article. 238. Insulting the intelligence of the MPs. I've listed the number of criminal charges where such things have been reported and where nothing has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81800	Comrade Sincic, what are we going to do now with these stories of violations of the Rules of Procedure, under allegations of violations of the Rules of Procedure. What insults of intelligence? Well, there's a lot of people's intelligence here every day, so nothing. Well, it's the freedom of democracy that people can say what they think when it's not true, when you think it's not true, when I don't think it's true. It enters freedom of democracy and speech. So, please, let's not go that way. You won't get any political points either of you with that kind of approach to things, believe me. Of course he wasn't hurt by the Rules of Procedure. The next replica is the respected representative Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81801	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Bačić, I am pleased that you have confirmed that you are satisfied with the conduct of the Trade Court and that you welcome what he has warned, in fact ordered certain actions, requested some documentation. But with that in fact, what did you confirm? You confirmed that the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts didn't actually do their job. Because the documents and what the court was looking for say that everything wasn't done right. If no records from the Trade Court session have been delivered, if no additional supporting documents have been submitted for the contract on... credit, if there is no demand specification in court, if a warrant has to be given to replace a member of the Committee representing the creditors who have been paid, then what are we talking about? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're actually talking about intransparency. And I'm glad that the Trade Court took the right position and accused everything in that, let's say, the course of decisions that actually confirmed that they hadn't done their job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81802	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81803	1 I thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Panenic, I said I was glad that the Trade Court made a decision. Because this is the best indicator that the Commercial Court in the Emergency Administration Act is not reduced to a public notary, to a mere observer of events in Agrokor, but that the Law on Extraordinary Administration allows the Croatian judiciary to at any time if it considers that something contrary to any of the... The law to which the Emergency Administration Act is called has the right to react, but it is also obliged to repeal the decision. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I do not protect any irregularity in that company that has occurred, but even if there has been an irregularity in the work of an extraordinary administration, there you have no right to extract the responsibility of any member of the government because this procedure has been made, it has been made in the extraordinary administration appointed by the court. Do you understand, colleague Panenic, that the court has appointed an extraordinary commissioner? She didn't call him the government. The government proposes it, but the court appointed him. Therefore, by way of your logic, you should sue the court, not the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81804	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81805	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Bacic, although I can see that this is all but a debate on the subject. One thing you mentioned, and right now what the debate is about is this aforementioned court intervention. In fact, there's been a lot of public talk about how it's all under government's control. However, this makes it clear to us that all previous decisions can also be questioned by the same court from the proposal if he could refuse it for the appointment of commissioners, to the appointment of advisers, everything else, and it is clear now that I think it has become clear to everyone that the proceedings are being conducted by the religious, commissioner and court. And I think that came out clearly. Of course, when the court didn't activate, then it was said that all the government was behind it, now that the court was activated, now that the government was suddenly doing something wrong, the court had to deal with it. So it's usually very clear now about this thing that it's in the jurisdiction of the creditors, the commissioners and the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81806	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Curaj, what is important, important and when the Law is bare, then it can first be determined that the jobs are preserved, that it is possible to pay the claims largely to Croatian suppliers, to the small 100%, to the greater of about 60% of the debt or their claims, that the company is preserved in the interest of the believer, that the former owner, by his business, has determined the structure of the future owners, and not by the Government, not by the extraordinary commissioner, not by the court, but by the former owner who was in charge and then determined the structure of the company itself and what is important, that resolving the problem of Agrokor was not costing Croatian taxpayers or the state budget, which was initially immediately charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81808	Thank you. Dear Representative Petrov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81809	Mr Bačiću, the court would not have anyone to confirm if the Government did not propose it, this means that it is an extraordinary commissioner on a proposal from the Government or Government Commissioner to report every month and that you want to wash yourself of any responsibility in the future that it is not your Commissioner, it is your Commissioner. One other government that you mentioned is not this government that you have today, the government with the CNS you've had before and its effects have proved to be as effective as these Governments will show their effects and show themselves, and now that your courts refuse to take action. And what I have to tell you, that other government, in that second government, is MOST, and MOST made you because you weren't very inclined to solve the problem with Agrokora, that's what MOST did to you and I'll tell you as a living witness. The law is a tool, the law can be used for good or bad, you have unfortunately used it for bad, and for roll up and for consulting services and for hundreds of other things and enough tells you Mr. Plenkovic's intervention with Mr. Bandic, who talks to suppliers, violates the deal of suppliers, you mentioned to suppliers how you want to help suppliers, here's how you help politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81810	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Petrov, if we were to talk about the things that happened 20 years ago, you would still have acted convincingly, this is how you talk about the things that happened a year ago and that you proposed and supported. And we were president of the Parliament. I mean, I don't understand, so you've proposed the Emergency Administration Act, you've supported it, and it's part of your project as well as HDZ, that an extraordinary commissioner be proposed by the government, and now that's the same solution you're attacking. And another thing that is still frantic to me is that I had no idea, even though I was president of the ruling majority club and at the time, that you proposed the Commissioner's name and name or asked him to accept the job. So, I mean, when you're telling me all this together, I have to tell you that you don't seem as credible as you're trying to explain it to me and to the entire Croatian public, after a year we haven't forgotten because we're sitting here, someone remembers more, someone less, someone writes, and then we can think of it all, or we can hear it from people who were directly involved in this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81812	Thank you, thank you. Now let's go, colleague Petrov, what's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81813	Article 238, I know you'll give me a warning, but I'd like to ask Mr. Bačić. to also check [[/Intruder Reiner: Which item?]] Article 238, downsizing of parliamentary representatives [[/Intruder Reiner: Which item?]] This Regulation shall enter [[Reiner: What item? He has multiple items.]] Article 238 in which it stands to demean or insult the presidents or other representatives by their conduct, to step away from the general rules, etc., the demeaning of parliamentary representatives, chairing. [[Intruder Reiner: You never read it obviously so there are more items,...]] And I would like to propose to Mr Bačić, for the sake of the public, that he read absolutely everything his Deputy Prime Minister said, as his Prime Minister said, and that this is his second commissioner who obviously has problems and with the court already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81814	You've exceeded your time and you yourself said you'll get a warning and you'll get a warning because you abuse the institution of the Rules of Procedure, don't do that. Don't do that, I beg you nicely. Just because people say different things that, I will repeat, we can agree or disagree, in our opinion, are true or not true, does not mean that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. In that case, virtually no one could say anything because different people have different attitudes and even views of the truth. Well, that's actually what parliamentary democracy is about. So, please, let's not go with these violations of the Rules of Procedure and their abuse, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81815	Thank you very much for the suggestion, I wouldn't. I'd ask just like this, so since here I'm giving the same thing under 238, again if you were, I'll read that it wouldn't be what we're going to... Read in detail. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So with your incursions or in other ways distracting the speaker, that is exactly what you did again, you should have in the time provided for the explanation, actually let the whole of Mr. Petrov bring out his thought, only then could you comment on whether he was in accordance with Article 238. But you've interrupted again, asked for a detailed explanation, and I haven't seen that there's this practice in this House that everyone's asked for a detailed statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81816	You've exceeded your time and received a warning from me. Not during the time, but for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's Institute of Injury. I'm trying to direct you to those days doing this, I'm a colleague of Petrova so I've even given you more time to say what he meant but it didn't apply to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Okay, but I'm asking everyone else, please, let's not, let's not, let's not, let's just stop this and continue a normal discussion about the subject and the point that we need to discuss. An individual debate by the respected representative, Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, that this commission has been mentioned over the past year, and there have been at least 4 times since the adoption of the report on the implementation of the budget of the annual, semi-annually, when the budget is adopted and the budget rebalances are being adopted, the Committee on Fiscal Policy is meeting as the Working Body of the High House and gives its opinion on the implementation of the fiscal rule. I haven't heard from any of these MPs once that he mentioned that the Committee on Fiscal Policy has or hasn't done anything. If that had happened, this debate would have been understandable to me today. However, speaking of this, then we should start from the beginning and see what it is, who founded this commission, when, the law was passed in 2010, the commission was founded at a session of the Croatian Parliament on 18 December 2013 and began to work. In its composition are all independent experts. And I must tell you honestly, when this commission was working, there was a majority of the SDP in power, there was a great struggle for this commission to be the working body of the Croatian Parliament. Many wanted to put that commission under their paw and in such a way as to have tools to wage war against the government, against the Minister of Finance, and I don't know who. We managed to fight it to be the working body of the Croatian Parliament. And when you look at the decision to set up the Committee, then you will see that article of our 45th Rules of Procedure is mentioned. And when you look at the reasons and tasks to be done by the Committee on Fiscal Policy, you will also see the consideration and assessment of the application of the fiscal rule, the examination and modification of the application of the fiscal rule laid down by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the examination and assessment of the fiscal rule laid down in the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the documents adopted by the Government, the proposal for a half-yearly and annual report on the implementation of the state budget. However, it is very interesting that two of the last items that the consideration and comparison of macroeconomic and budgetary projections with... the European Commission's available projections in a document adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what is very important in the end, what even a colleague of Grmoya today called for, the establishment of a disaster, that is, the existence of major economic disorders. See exactly these two things are defined by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, Article 4, paragraphs 9 and 10. So he tells you that under the disaster, the regulations in the area of rescue protection have an impact on the state's financial situation and not on how someone else wanted to interpret it. Also, the major economic disturbance relates to the annual decline in GDP. Now, colleagues and colleagues, if this were the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which among other things is sent to the European Commission and the European Commission for a certain assessment, in any way assessing the impact of Agrokor on the annual GDP decline, then this debate would be understandable today. However, there is no mention of that in any report. So do we stick to the Rules of Procedure that we brought here ourselves? Would it have been better if we had discussed today that this Law on Fiscal Responsibility provides us as representatives with the opportunity to act as parliamentary representatives through the Committee on Fiscal Policy, as the working body of the Parliament and their opinions when we discuss the budget? The other thing that today wants to keep quiet is that we propose as the ruling majority to the head of the commission of the man who, in the past SDP government, was the assistant minister. Doesn't that suggest that someone won't be able to manipulate him as they please? But we simply respected the decision and the wish of the CNB, because they suggest it as their expert to come to that head of the board with the other four colleagues who have an extremely strong professional pedicure to say so. Today, we debated science in the Republic of Croatia. Disabling knowledge and disabling some people who have done something in their professional lives. We disabling an institution that we founded ourselves. And then what kind of opinion do we as Parliamentarians send to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia about ourselves and this House of Commons? How will these five colleagues and fellow economists feel with a brilliant professional résumé and career, how will they feel after this debate today? How will they think and think, in what many hours have gone their debate and the materials that have been sent to this High House? And let's be sure colleagues and colleagues, here's how sorry I am that there are no colleagues of Lalovec here, but surely he and his predecessor Linic didn't like the individual, the assessment of the Committee on Fiscal Policy for the implementation of the fiscal rule. But if we wanted to really discuss this commission today and this working body, our working body, not the working body of someone outside, then we would first of all have to read the Fiscal Responsibility Act. We would have to answer ourselves to some of the terms of the European semester, which is a fiscal rule, which is what this Committee on Fiscal Policy is considering, and whether it is for us as parliamentary representatives, especially those whose finances are no closer to working and dealing with whether that page and half, two, three, how when their texts and opinions can help us to judge that certain items, certain policies that have been conducted and implemented, were not exactly the way it should have been, but perhaps it could have been more quality and better. That's why this body was founded, precisely to help us with our parliamentary representations. And that's why we who have thought and thought about appreciating this House of the High fought to be the working body of this House, not to be the working body of any institution. And he can't even fully respect the chairman of the board or the chairman of the board before he can have any effect on these people at all. Because these people have such a professional career, have such professional status, have such a reputation in the scientific community in the Republic of Croatia that they cannot be influenced by the president of the Assembly Committee on Finance. Because if that were the case, then they'd just... The second thing, when there was a debate on the appointment of a colleague named Zigman at the head of HANFA, then why didn't he ever mention it was you didn't work well on the head of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, if that's what they're saying today? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why no one when the problems in HANFA started did, and with this I will finish, asked why it was not put, in fact, problems about Agrokor why he did not put the report on the agenda for the 2014 HANFA, 2015 could be discussed and raised some questions. And colleagues and colleagues, today there have been a lot of stories about Agrokor, my professional life has taught me that I never get out of the context of time and space and that I am not discussing anything that I don't have all the information about, but what is evident is that according to the revised financial report gro and the strongest borrowing of Agrokor was created at the end of 2011. When you look at the bond explosion through the factoring of societies, you'll see what years it is. And it doesn't occur to me to accuse anyone because I think that some colleagues know each other as professionals that they knew some things to react to, no matter what they're counter-political options. But it's just that these things happened at that time. Did someone then ask the Committee on Fiscal Policy? It's not. Unfortunately, many here today argue that they have not read the decision to set up a commission, they do not even know that this commission was established in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and do not know that this commission is bound by the Law on Fiscal Responsibility. I must tell you that the fiscal responsibility law when it was passed in 2010 was quite revolutionary, and read it and you will see why. Because he calls out those who overstep budget items beyond what this High House has brought, and on that basis they must offer their resignation to the Prime Minister. It was one point that was very controversial, but nobody here reads it, and nobody's talking about it here today, and that's what's not good. We're sending the wrong message about our colleagues and colleagues. We will not do that if we attack our colleague from another political option to deserve the sympathy of the citizens. We'll earn citizens' sympathy if we work in law enforcement to make these laws their advantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81818	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81819	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shucker. I think you said you should actually repeat what today is about agenda because I think we've gone far from what's scheduled. First of all, we are here discussing the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy who comes to the proposal of the CNB. On the other hand, the Commission itself considers and assesses the application of all fiscal rules regarding the application of its powers, which were adopted in the establishment of 18 December 2013, as you yourself have said to the Fiscal Responsibility Act... as regards the budget or out-of- budget users. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think if we wanted to talk about something, we could have just talked about it and the public really needed to know what's going on here. So one working body is used to impose topics that are not on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81820	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81821	Comrade Curaj, you've basically said with your last few words the essence of the whole problem. We don't stick to the rules we've made ourselves. Could such a debate be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament? He can't. And we don't accept it, and we don't respect it. Now you can imagine how people think and think, asking us to obey the laws, and they don't follow the rules they've made themselves. It would be far better today if we were using individual interpretations of the Fiscal Responsibility Act you could open up. It's a democratic right to open up all the questions and that's not at all controversial, but that we're not at all discussing what's the measure of things, unfortunately we're sending a bad message about ourselves, so we can think whatever we want, but that's the case. So today, the metric law on fiscal responsibility is here, and if someone had called for Article 4 of paragraphs 9 and 10, and on that basis, they would have started talking about something else, I would have understood, he would have found this space, so let them talk about it, but no one did, and we have to discuss it exactly that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81822	Thank you. The next replica is a respected colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81823	Thank you very much. You're a fellow Shucker, and it's probably arranged in a cat's workshop to be mentioned in 2011, '13. or '12. as a time of expansion of Agrokor's duties, but you forget that your minister was just there, Minister Maric, the one who justified those duties, wrote arguments and asked that Russian banks who provided loans and bonds sold by Agrokor were prepared by Minister Maric. So don't do it. It's really not right, and I'd say it's nothing to do with anything. So if someone should have known, then that's what Minister Maric should have known who was working there at the time. But let's put it aside, I ask and ask, and I'm interested in your opinion, do you think it would be better if that institution were independent of it not to be chaired by a party man and chair the meetings of that committee. That's what I think we should do, what should be changed in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81824	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81825	Comrade Maras, I'm sorry you're insulting your common sense. You know I'm not the kind of man someone writes speeches to, you know that all these years, so don't get away with it. Another thing when you're already pulling my tongue, while you're already withdrawing the responsibility of fellow Marić, who has changed the HANFA Act twice, who has changed the law on the takeover of companies, who has warned you from this pay phone that you're not doing it? Did HANFA have to react or Maric? Maric was an employee of Agrokor at the time. But here we're talking about some other responsibility, the truth is that at the time of your government, this responsibility was created by Agrokor on his knees, that's the truth you can't, that's ultimately a revised financial report. But I don't want to deal with this fellow Maras. Today the subject is the Commission for Fiscal Policy and all you're saying you had the opportunity to do on 18 December 2013, but then you were very interesting not to bother some things. However, some things should simply be said whether you are in power or not... the authorities. But my colleague Maras, I don't want to get political points here, and I'm telling the facts here, and that's how it's gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81826	Thank you. The next debate is the respected representative Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81827	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going back to the scale, which is the Committee on Fiscal Policy and Membership and individual members. So what it says in the decision itself on the establishment of the Committee on Fiscal Policy is who they are and who they are. So six members of the institutions and members representing the State Audit Office, the Zagreb Economic Institute, the Institute of Public Finance, the CNB, the Faculty of Economics and Law. What is still to be said is that, in the decision itself, Article 3 states that, apart from the President or the President, they must not be members of political parties at the time of their appointment and during the previous three years and during the commission. So they were also careful that these people were independent and that they could bring courts and evaluate everything that any government and any finance minister did. I, as president, had already had seven minutes and seven sessions, and what is important is that in these seven sessions there were really very detailed discussions about all the facts and all the events that took place during this period, and there was a lot going on, starting with the adoption of the budget last year and after that all the changes in tax laws, etc. All estimates made and how any change will affect units of local self-government, citizenship, taxpayers and the rest. Nothing will happen then and in the future as long as I am at the head of this committee I will not and must not put myself in the role of one who will stop in any way the professionality and independence of all other colleagues. We discussed the use of EU funds, the impact of certain companies on the Croatian economy, employment and everything else that can be read from all our records, and many of us were very critical, but we also considered how to help in a particular situation and assess whether the Ministry of Finance proposed a satisfactory solution. When we talk about the Commission itself, then I must also warn again that the Commission primarily assessed the application of the fiscal rule, which means that expenditure growth cannot be greater than GDP growth. I wonder why all the previous commissions when the deficit of the state was much greater and when it broke and unbulful depths that no one thought of then asking what the commission was doing and how professional it was. So I think this way when we're not critical enough of everyone else, then we have to question ourselves whether what we're saying is right. During this period, the government budget surplus reached 0.8% of GDP, so nominally 2.7 billion kuna. we have a reduction in public debt and a reduction in deficits, it is balanced with expenditures, it is balanced with interest costs, the effects of everything else are assessed, some companies are restructured, etc. and in these conditions, when we achieve savings, and at the same time we resolve certain health losses and reduce the overall deficit, then it is questioned whether any commission or whether any president there is working or not. It reduces the value of all these independent experts who are inside asking together what is happening and how the state budget works, how extra budget users function and where we can achieve improvements. I therefore hold here that Mr Lang, who has been proposed before the CNB to be a member of this committee, will, as an independent expert, contribute to our quality of work, and also all the experts who are here together at present in this commission have made a very exceptional contribution to this period of their work. Therefore, I do not want to reduce the value of anyone in any way, but I say that some people have not questioned the verification and application of fiscal rules when the state budget was at the bottom. Therefore, we now feel very big and important shifts when the share of public debt is due to fall below 70%, and some in this way dare to talk at all about how nothing is done and nothing is achieved, and thus the efforts of the government are diminished, and ultimately we are here as Parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81828	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81829	Thank you, Vice President. I think I'll just, I think about some, let's just say, Benign things have made a debate that went the wrong way. I'm just gonna go back and try to bring it all down to the metrics. So today we are discussing the Committee on Fiscal Policy, or replacing a member who has resigned because of the incompatibility of functions. So, Mr. Zigman who was there appointed in front of the CNB, the CNB proposed during the month of March a new member, Mr. Lange, and that's the measure we're doing today. Only the Committee on Fiscal Policy, I will now read what its basic tasks are. Therefore, considering and assessing the application of the fiscal rule laid down by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, on the proposal of the State budget and financial plans outside the budget beneficiaries of the state budget for the financial year and projections for the next two years. Consideration and assessment of the application of the fiscal rule laid down by the Law, again, in the proposal to amend and supplement that budget and other non-financial beneficiaries of the state budget. Re-examination and assessment of the application of the fiscal rule laid down by law, accountability and in the proposal for a half-yearly and annual report on the implementation of the state budget, etc., etc. So, considering... macroeconomic and budgetary projections with... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the European Commission's available projections in documents brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, again proposed to the Croatian Parliament, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think it's very clear what the ingenuities are, the tasks of the Committee itself, and today we've heard a lot of things here and we've talked a lot about what's not even the subject of this agenda. Of course, I'm not saying anything about this subject that we talked about today. It may be important, but I think it's more important that we stick to both the Rules and Rules themselves and what it is because it actually reduces the very importance of this agenda point, and so we can impute something to the Commission itself, which is not his responsibility to give people some burden that we haven't actually prescribed anywhere for them to wear. So I think it's nice to actually hear that there is so much debate over something more or less that we all agree on the replacement, which is not even in the control of the majority here, but an authorised other body that is proposing, but I say once again, the debate has really gone in a direction that may be media-interesting and that may be the biggest reason why we talked today about Agrokor, but really a link, I can't see either from the authority of the Commission, nor in the very Law on fiscal responsibility which, in itself, ensures fiscal and accountability and transparency, i.e. identifying and projection as state budget outside of budget users, so the units of local self-government and, of course, introduced a declaration of fiscal responsibility of responsible persons. So this whole thing that's done us good can't really be shorter connected to the story of Agrokor, and that's what we've been talking about the whole time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81830	Thank you very much. Now we have a closing word on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club. Dear Ivan Willibor-Sincic called. He's gone, he's losing his right to debate, and on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, he's finally going to speak to a respected representative, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. At the end of the debate which was at moments and quite a mess and caused certain emotions, I must say that we will support Mr Lang's election proposal for a position proposed by the Finance Committee of the Croatian Parliament, but I must once again warn that although here, some MPs object, it is too difficult for HDZ representatives to open a debate that is justified and which, I would say, is wanted by Croatian citizens, which is to warn of certain fiscal risks in the future related to Agrokor and non-transparent behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia about Agrokor. We can't give up such debates because we have a responsibility, and I personally as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what my debate is, and this is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia could see today, caused the whole salvo of the attack on me and the SDP Club for having dared, be careful what, to warn what is obvious, which is that it is a compromised procedure in Agrokor, that certain companies under the auspices of Vice-President Dalic and Prime Minister Plenkovic have earned millions of kuna and can only say here that they will neither discourage us nor silence us and that we will, regardless of what does not fill the agenda points of the Croatian Parliament, which the Government's proposals do not come, which is relatively, let's just say, a session left without quality proposals that come and without any proposals coming from the Croatian government. Instead of having the agenda filled with points submitted by the opposition because for the first time in Croatian history, there are more points on the Croatian Parliament's agenda proposed by the opposition in the Croatian Parliament than was suggested by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And today we have a session with one appointment and one point of opposition that is here will end, will end without a vote and Croatian citizens must be aware that nothing is done in Croatia, that Prime Minister Plenkovic is as Government, that he is not doing anything, and he is satisfied with his government and would not change anything. So, that power is the purpose of itself and it will last to the last hundredth term of office, as the Constitution predicted, regardless of whether it had a majority of 76, 77 or more representatives and I would say it was a very bad message to our fellow citizens, but what we as an opposition can, we can speak here, fight for our views, show disagreement with the fact that the institutions do not work, and the Committee for the fiscal Croatian Parliament at all, I would say, there is no role in society that we should be able to change that Law, that it should be a separate body that is deprived of the influence of politics, or that the President, said Mr Bacic, all of the non-party people. But the chairman of the commission is a party person, he co-ordinates the city, determines the rhythm, opens topics, and this is the lady, a colleague from HDZ, Mrs. Peric, who, as chairman of the board, has the duty under the law. So this should change, take care of what is happening in Croatia, should be warned, potential financial risks and we need to open it here, like it for the people of HDZ or not, which then, I say, reaches out for both personal attacks and for the first time happened in the Croatian history of parliamentaryism to attack you because you are fiscally responsible, i.e. to take care of the money of public and taxpayers. So people who ask for contracts to be respected and those funds that citizens have given to invest through local self-government units unless they have invested, normally that money must be returned to the Croatian budget. And I'm being represented, here even on a personal level because of that attack. And that's what we need to talk about here and what we need to discuss in Croatia and change our attitude. So you can't do what you want and you can't do it the HDZ way you've done it so far. And I can only promise Croatian citizens, that regardless of their personal attacks, I will not give up my style of work and their representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81832	Thank you very much. I also plead no personal attacks, and it's not right personally for anyone to attack anyone. And on the other hand, I have to say that I have a lot of opposition points on the agenda, because it used to be preconceived not to put opposition points on the agenda, so now, I guess it would be good to put opposition points on the agenda. But let's go, I'd like to conclude a debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when we get the conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81833	The proposal for a decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, is proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the debate is closed. I am voting in favour of the motion for a decision on the discharge of members and the appointment of an article of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, which reads: First, a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, Ante Zigman, is hereby authorised. And the second member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy is named Maroje Lang. I find that most of the votes, 91 for and 2 votes against, a decision has been taken to resolve the members and appoint a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy in the text as proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81834	And now we're going again, here we go, to an opposition point: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. No. 303 The proposing representative is Ivan Pernar, based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yes, dear representative Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81835	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we have proposed an amendment to the Court Act for a very simple reason. So far, the responsibility of judges for the damage they have done with their illegal work has been very minimalized. Why? Because judges under the current Court Act are not responsible for damages. If I, as a parliamentary representative, say a word, and it's my job to speak, and from that word, someone thinks he's been hurt, like. Aleksandar Stankovic, who received 50,000 kn from me because of it and on the other hand if we have a situation, where every other profession, where if someone does something, must be responsible for the damage. For example. Hypothetically, fellow Saucha, I believe, for example, I hope it's not your fault. However, if you are guilty, you must answer for the damage you have done, not someone else for you. But in the case of judges who judge illegally and incorrectly, it is the state that is responsible for the damage they are doing. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the current article of the Courts Act, 105, which we wish to amend is this, Article 105(1). The Republic of Croatia shall be responsible for the damage suffered by the judges in the proceedings by their illegal or irregular work in the conduct of their judicial duties. Now, someone's gonna say well, Mr. Pernar, why is that a problem, if the subsequent state can ask the judge for the same money? Well, the problem is, it's very difficult to win a dispute against the state, because when you sue the state, then the judge of the state you're suing. So the judge represents the state, it's a lot easier to get a lawsuit against an NN person than against the state itself. And for this reason, we have suggested that the text, or, to read like this, item 1 of Article 105. The law on courts shall be responsible for the damage caused to the parties in the proceedings by their illegal or irregular work in the conduct of the judicial duty. Unfortunately, the government rejects, that is, the Committee has collectively rejected our proposal for what reasons? So because this current system, it protects corrupt judges. You, if, if you've been harmed, even if you have proof that the judge has been unlawfully tried or otherwise, you can't sue him for the damage he's done to you. But if you say a dentist ruins your teeth with his unconscious work or a doctor, or any other profession, auto mechanic, you can sue him. However, in the case of judges, judges are in Croatia, ladies and gentlemen of the Holy Cow. And the question arises as to how long it will be, on the other hand, whether a society in which judges are immune in such a way can ever go forward. There's one more thing I'd like to say, as an agent, I have to answer, i.e. I can answer for the damage, material in front of the municipal court, anyone can sue me for what I said. And say I had mental pain, etc. But the judge who does you harm, he's protected from these civil proceedings, for what? I don't see it in logic. And someone will say it, but then people would be afraid to be judges. My friend, if you're not willing to take the risk, or if you're not prepared to judge fairly, don't do this job, tell me, I'm afraid the decisions I would make are illegal or whatever, I don't want to do this job, let the fair judges do their job. If this bill isn't made, anyone who's damaged by a judge can't just do anything to him. What does that mean to you in practice? I had a case where the court convicted me of not guilty and ended up in a blockade, yesterday I found out about it. And for what? He says you were lying in front of the door and you wouldn't let the police get into the raids. I send the CD footage of the whole event, the video shows I'm not lying under the door, I'm standing on the side. I stand by, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm telling the police, there's a lady with a disability, so you can take her free, but I'm gonna record this for the whole public to see. But it bothers the courts that we're filming the raids. And recently I was also sentenced to Krk, which is the Rijeka court has condemned me, and I am also thinking of 2,000 kunas to interfere with the exercise. I'm the one in the complaint, but I wasn't the one who was intruding the performance, I was just filming the action. But what is likely, and that appeal will be refused, and ultimately I will be found guilty and you have no one to complain about, no more appeal instruments. He can only complain once. And when there was the next raid on the Krk of that family, what happened? There's a court executive here, and she said Mr. Pernar, get out of here, and I'm telling her, but ma'am, I'm standing by, I'm not in your way, you're doing your job, I'm just filming. She says that's what you're bothering me with with your recording. So what she's trying to say is that the public can't know what's going on and it exists in the video, her words are being heard. It's an incredible thought. And according to the Constitution, there's censorship, apparently there's freedom, but as I said, in practice there's no freedom. The actions are a hidden topic that must not be spoken of, and they are the reason why the Living Wall has even entered the Parliament. But he didn't just stop at the dissections. Our goal is to reform the legal system in a way that all judges are corrupted by criminals, to simply move away. The state has to create a new instrument with which to do so. These amendments to the Law on Courts are the beginning of the end of the judicial will. And I repeat, it's my job to speak if I answer my word, then let the judge whose job it is to judge be held accountable for the judgments he's made. But as you know, our country is a corrupt country and I remember when it was a campaign to join the EU, then we were told in the media that the EU will solve the problem of corruption in Croatia, as we are now corrupt, so when we join the EU, we will be less corrupt. But what happened? I don't know if you know it, but according to the corruption index, Croatia has fallen lower than joining the EU. So we're more corrupt today than we were when we got in. Which means that the corrupt elites from Brussels and the corrupt elites from Zagreb from Mark's square work together and destroy our people. So that's why people end up moving out because they don't see the future in our country. The political system couldn't survive if the judiciary were fair. For example. It was the verdict of Eve Sanader and HDZ and all of a sudden, although the verdict is a power of power, and the Constitutional Court says it is no longer a power of power, we tear it down. And no longer Sanader has to be in prison, no longer HDZ has to return to the state budget of 21 million kuna or as much as they have already sucked through Fimi Media even though it is undeniable, so here are the dear people, so in court it was undeniably found that the money from state-owned companies was taken, given to Fimi Media and that Fimi Media further channeled that money to HDZ. But HDZ doesn't have to return it. And watch out for this absurd. Robert Jezic, who told Ivo Sanader at the trial that he had received 5m euros in bribes he was due to forward to Sanader again, was the judge, i.e. he told the judge that, I return the 5m euros. But he never brought them back. To this day, ladies and gentlemen, 5 years, 5 million euros in bribes he has not returned to the budget. So imagine, Mrs. Strenja-Linić, if you were a 5 kuna director, then they would have done you, they would have blocked your account for 700 kuna. And imagine this paradox, that you said in court I took 5 million euros in bribes, to pass them on to who else, and not to return them, nothing. So what kind of legal system is that? What kind of judges are these? What kind of justice is this, and what are these laws after all? These are questions that the Croatian public must ask. But unfortunately he doesn't. And you know why? So because the media is theirs, the media doesn't want you to think about when Robert Jezic will return 5m euros of bribes to the budget. Or when HDZ will pay back 21 million kunas that they sucked out of state-owned companies, that's not what they're thinking. And then what happens to you in the judiciary? It pushes everything into obsolescence. Which means that HDZ will never return that money increased for interest, nor will Robert Jezic return 5m euros in bribes. And then because of that and such a dysfunctional judiciary, it happened that we lost the MOL dispute when we had the arbitration of INA-MOL, and this judge says gentlemen, we don't believe that this one received 5 million euros, why, so the money wasn't returned. And this one really pulled 5 million euros out of the bag and put it on the table, that's the new one, that would look convincing, then we would trust you in the verdict, but like this when it says, not only did it not send 5 million euros of bribes back to the budget, but the Croatian court eventually freed Sanader from that verdict. And then the court of arbitration says, on the side, you yourselves do not believe in that verdict, and you expect us to accept the arguments that you make in it. I don't know how long this is going to go, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how long Croatia will be subject to corruption, I don't know how long young people will be moving out of the country, I don't know how long people will be working for 3,000 kn, I don't know, if anyone intends to stop the judges who release the killers. To the amazing excuses, says the man, saying I'm having a fainting, that syncope. I drive a car, I kill five people in the car, I say, listen, I had a syncope. The court set me free, not guilty. Since it's not God's fault, he killed people. But again we return to that, in Croatia, justice and justice, there is neither right nor justice. Sometimes they used to say that law and justice were two separate concepts. Well, in Croatia they definitely are. But there is no right or justice in Croatia. I've experienced the execution and the blockade myself, I've been falsely sentenced by the court, and let's face it, that you, all the media have said about me, I've never sued anyone for one kuna. But the media will tell you, what is the biggest problem, which is the greatest danger to Croatia, are those who ruined them? Is that why young people on buses and planes are moving out of the country? Is it a danger to our country that has shut down hundreds of thousands of jobs? Is it a danger for our country to buy planes, military for 3 billion kunas, while there are no cures for the treatment of sick children? No, I don't. If you open any daily newspaper, today or tomorrow, you will see that the greatest danger and greatest threat to this country is the Living Wall, Ivan Pernar, Ivan Willibor Sincic. Sometimes they mention a colleague of Bunjac, a colleague of Vladimir Palfi's. We humans are the greatest danger, we are the greatest villains in this country. And I'm asking you what I want to show you. We have not only the problem of political corruption at the highest level and judicial corruption. The complete media system is corrupt deep and these 3 systems are interlinked. They support each other and protect each other. Ladies and gentlemen, when will this end? Who knows? It is my sincere desire to change something, to transform the judiciary and to form a normal system, where the guilty man will be guilty, and the innocent will be innocent. I repeat, even though he killed people, Horvatincic was released, and I, although I did not interfere with the action, was found guilty and I was charged with the fine. On the other hand, Robert Jezic, who took 5m euros in bribes, has not returned them to this day and he is laughing. And when the journalist asked him one, asked him, Mr. Jezic, when are you going to return that 5 million euros? He laughed in her face. And did he laugh at her or all of us? This system laughs at all of us, it mocks us, and it tells us the following, if you did a serious thing, if you killed someone, you'll be freed. If, you took 5 million bribes, you won't have to return it. But if you're fighting that corrupt system, then even if you're not guilty, we're going to find you guilty and execute you and block you. That's ladies and gentlemen, the policy of this government. Ivo Sanader and HDZ freedom, and Ivan Pernar guilty. There. So what now? So what now? What is the final result of such justice? What good do we as a society have for him? And for that very reason, I have made a proposal for these amendments to the law, that judges must, or that judges may be responsible for the damage done to the parties in the proceedings. And not that the state fits for them, so why would the state pay instead of a judge? If I don't know, I'm doing some damage, so let me sort it out, so the state won't make it right for me. That sounds logical, but if you're a judge, then it's not, then it's different. Then it's a double criterion, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not saying on this occasion, that Judge Asshole who freed Horvatinčić is guilty, in the sense that she's corrupt, I'm not saying that. But I'm trying to point out that the system that makes it possible for someone who kills people to be free of guilt, because he says he's fallen, he's unconscious, that such a system is not normal. That's what I'm trying to tell you here today. But the HDZ colleagues will assure, no, Mr. Pernar, so today Mr. Bacic said, after a liberating verdict to Sanader, HDZ after Robert Jezic did not return 5m euros in bribes, I believe in the rule of law. Those HDZs believe in the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. And you who are massacred by this judicial system, do you believe this is a legal state? And there's one more thing I want to tell you. Some people blame a single judge, and then they yell at that Mrs. Asshole. But it's not her fault. The whole system is weird, at least. The whole system is illogical, and in the case of acquittals to Sanader, HDZ and what I cited with Robert Jezic, I think the judges have done damage to Croatia. Why? Well, because the money wasn't returned to the budget. The judges who brought down those verdicts have done damage to the state. What does the Croatian court do to you? They say you have, I don't know, a 500-page explanation and the court says, and it's not even disputed that they pulled out that 21 million kuna, but perhaps a factual description, a couple of commas, a few points, maybe the argument is a little controversial. Instead of making judgments, or instead of changing just an argument, to say, look, this argument is not true, this second one is true, the court simply releases or destroys the entire verdict. It's your Croatian judiciary. And as long as the judges won't answer by name and last name, not hide behind the state for the damage they've done with their illegal and unconscious actions, I guarantee you that we as a society will not go forward. There isn't. I was told by General Glasovic once about the Nawaho Indians that they believed that the heart had a form of triangle and that every time a man did something wrong, it turned around and then a man as a sniveling in his heart, as if his conscience was doing it in such a way. But General Glasnovic tells me, but Ivan, those in HDZ don't have those triangles anymore, they're all round, they're no longer bothered by anything they do. Their conscience is calm. And they keep their hands on their hearts here, if necessary, and then they still call me, Mr. Pernar like you didn't get up on the anthem. Why don't you hold your hand on your heart and we hold it? Unfortunately, that time I did it for a reason to point to their hypocrisy and farce. Farsu, called the Croatian Parliament, which is neither of the interests of the Croatian people nor of the Croatian state. Unfortunately. I would like to represent, but it represents Todorovic would not be in London today, he could not fake Agrokor balances for 12 years. They say from DORH, that's what the media says, that he faked balances for 12 years. Well, gentlemen of the DORH, where have you been for 12 years? I fake bookkeeping, I go to jail, and he fakes 12 years of that billion, it hurts his head. Nobody cares. Why? Well, because it's protected. And one more thing, which is amazing. The investigation by its nature must be a secret, and Plenkovic told DORH 5 million kuna to investigate Todorovic. So as soon as Todorovic heard it on TV, he made it clear that amigo was getting ready for you. And what did he do? Of course he got away. The DORH was supposed to arrest Mr. Todorovic first, and then go researching, not this farce to watch where a man gives moral lessons, etc. But that's all possible thanks to HDZ. Anything is possible, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know what to tell you. I don't even know what to add because I know that whatever proposal I make, I know it will be rejected. Before he was discussed, he was rejected. And then says Mr. Rainer, here's Mr. Pernar, you can see that we're letting you from the opposition too, to talk, to present your suggestions. Yes, you do, but what is this? Only ink on paper, this will never come to life. The judge still won't be able to sue for the damage they're doing with illegal work. Is that normal for you? It's obvious in Croatia. You judges can't sue. I have a video that shows that I'm not guilty and I tell the judge, look, I don't accept this verdict because I'm not guilty. The court simply says, Mr. Pernar, like you're plumb. Like you're plump. Why? Because I'm above you. You're nothing. I'm someone and something. And then they ask us as Lords of the Living Wall, why won't you co-ordinate with HDZ and SDP? So why not? Well, here's why not. So because I see my eyes firsthand, so it's no longer about people telling me on the side and saying, look, Mr. Pernar, the court is corrupt. No, I just first-hand experience that an innocent man can be found guilty even though there's evidence of a video that releases him. But on the other hand, even though there's a video recording, like a gentleman, for example. Ivo Sanader condemns, that man is freed. Why is Ivan Pernar convicted and Ivo Sanader released? Have you ever wondered that? How is that possible? Am I a bigger criminal than he is? Or maybe the judiciary doesn't work in such a way that if you're in HDZ, then you're protected, and if by any chance you're not in HDZ, then anything is possible. Then he's on trial for the graphite. Here, they gave me immunity. I'm waiting for the start of a trial that's actually a farce. I'm being tried for the alleged damage of 2,000 kuna, for two graphite. They claim the damage is 2,000 kuna, which is unrealistic. That's not even 50 kuna. But let's also say it's 2,000 kuna. I'm ready, OK. If it's my fault, I'll take it easy, but let those who've done billions of damage, let them settle the damage, but this system doesn't go after those who stole billions, who robbed the people to bring back what they stole, no. The courts deal, I read here and that court that sent the cheese to the prison, sold the woman cheese on the side of the road, went to jail. And there are people who have done a lot worse than selling cheese along the road, so no one has ever eaten a donkey wolf. I don't know what to tell you, but here's Mr. Glavas, I'm going to take your example of how the judiciary works. Let's start by assuming it wasn't your fault and you've been in jail for five years, 8, as long as it is. ... Five and six months, five years and three months. [[- Intruder Head, you don't understand.]] So what kind of justice does an innocent man send to prison? On the other hand, if he is guilty, of what kind of justice that first condemns you, you spend time in prison, and then he says listen to this verdict on the basis of which you were lying in the KP home of Zenica, it's no longer right, and now here you are going out. Is that a normal legal system? It's not. But you see, Mr. Glavas, with his support of HDZ and his own hand, you allow this system to move on, that judges who are not responsible for the damage they do with their illegal and unconscious work, are not responsible for what they've done. One day if you're released, you'll be able to sue the state and you'll get that money back. Says Mr. Glavas, and state lawyers need to answer, I agree, not them, anyone who, by his work of illegal, unconscious, I remember when Mr. Glavas here defended me. The day before he took off his immunity, when he was talking, they were offering witnesses you're going out of jail, you just have to tell the story we're telling you. You need a job, you need an apartment, you just sign it. And where, at the trial, it was only then that it became apparent that they were not even witnesses to the events they described. Will the state's attorney, I'm not questioning guilt, but the fact that at least part of the witness was false, part was blackmailed, part forced, etc., will anyone answer for it? He won't. And Mr. Glavas, as long as you support HDZ, so will it continue. Unfortunately, as HDZ will not take Croatia on a good path. He won't. God forbid, God forbid, here's God, Mr. Plenkovic and Colinda Grabar-Kitarovic make Croatia the richest country in the EU. Or one of the richest countries in the world or whatever, I'm the world's first luckiest. But as long as it's not like that, as long as it's not, what else do we have to talk about? I call on you as parliamentary representatives to allow, regardless of your party's belongings, the judge to be held accountable for the damage done to the parties in the proceedings by his illegal or incorrect act of conduct of judicial duty. I remember when it was in the DORH, he said there was Mr. Cvitan, saying that, in one case we say for one day watch the thought, in one day we're late as an indictment to order. What a coincidence in one day. And he asked someone, as well, and what happened to that attorney state or whoever that camera over there in DORH, and he says, "Well, we put it in another place of business." So much for irresponsibility, so much for conscience, ladies and gentlemen. Well, thank you for listening, I'd be happy to respond to your replicas and that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81836	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Mary Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81837	Comrade Pernar, here you have mentioned in your debate that the court was very quick in the case that you had, that you were quickly convicted, but here we cannot say for certain about a large number of other citizens. In Croatia, court proceedings take an extremely long time. I am a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, and I must say that already here in the 4th term we get such representations and complaints from citizens that man can't imagine it at all. After 10, 15 years of not solving cases, people no longer have anywhere to turn and I think that's why the long-term process has lost all hope in court. You have a lot of situations that people are being tried, crime is walking free around the country, people are being tried, and then it comes before that final decision, and then everything goes back to square one, and it's spinning around and nothing... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81838	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81839	My colleague, I agree with you 100%, and I'm only going to give you one thought. What's an unwitting court's work? That's when the court ruled but didn't send her away for a few years. There's that too. It's just that the verdict isn't coming. There shall be no time limit within which the court, after the final hearing has been concluded, or the final judgment has to be abolished. It doesn't exist. He can bring it but he doesn't have to send it. He doesn't have to send her. But what's interesting about the Sauch case, one time, the court, in one day, reanalyzed hundreds of signatures, i.e. An expert of some, no, DORH's and then the same court says look, it'll take three months for those signatures to be analyzed. How is it possible that we have such oscillations, that simply there is no balanced criterion equal to all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81840	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Glasnovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81841	Dear colleague Pernar, 100% agree, Croatian society's early cancer is a judiciary, that's correct. I am the first fundamental task of this country to arrange the judiciary or do you listen to any of your phones, just asking if you know that? I've got... 100% to listen to mine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They tried to break into my apartment twice, etc. Who rules in this country? Former personnel. With these people in the judiciary, where you have 29 characters of the Supreme Court are from the former system, only three are not, and they need to be hit primarily by the origin of the property, they need to do security checks. We can't pour new wine into old blends. We're not going far with this frame. They're networked, they're... who are there today are the heirs of that party, who first put a bullet in the head and then tried... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're the same characters, only in a new hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course he has to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81842	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81843	Mr. Glasnovic, it is simply amazing that a country like Croatia is called the rule of law. Let him speak plainly to the citizens, listen, there is no rule of law, there is no justice, don't give hope to the judiciary. No, they tell people, there's a legal state, believe in institutions, believe in our politicians who created such a system, and then eventually people get, they used to get, says Mr. Glasnovic the bullet, they get the job done today. But it's like a bullet to you. You don't know what's worse. When you're disillusioned or killed. Because for many, this experience of dejection actually leads at the end often either to suicides or to stress that causes cancer and eventually to the death of the perpetrators, etc. I would like to say that the legal system of Croatia continues to kill people only with other more subtle or "fine" methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81844	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81845	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, when we talk about the court system, what my colleague Habek said, the length of the course is one of the problems, but in my opinion, the biggest problem is unequal court practice. So, according to the same law, the courts judge the entire Republic of Croatia. You had a case where two citizens made a similar case, were in court for a similar case. They both drove in an alcoholic state, curved a car accident, and killed a person in traffic. One of them got a conviction, had to go to jail, lost his driver's license, etc., and the other one was released because he came from a good family. And that's what it says in the explanation of the verdict. In my opinion, the biggest problem is that, the system of unifying court practice. That, therefore, not all can be left to the judge's autonomous judgment because he still judges by law and according to presidential law as it is on the island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81846	The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81847	Yes, Mr. Hajdukovic. In law theory, it really does say that judges judge by law. That's what the Court Act says. But in practice, the question is whether they're judging by the law. Because I don't understand, I don't know about other people's experiences, but I don't understand how someone can, based on a false description of things, slow down the video to say, you're guilty of something, and the video shows that you're not guilty. That's not clear to me, Mr. Hajdukovic. But I know I'm not the only one. I wish I was the only one who did it. We have hundreds of thousands of people in the country who have been mutilated by the judiciary and no one is responsible for that. If the media were normal, if they weren't corrupt, if they weren't bribed, if they weren't instrumentalized, then the media would talk about it. We'd talk, people. Rebellion. That French guy wrote the book "Resurrect". Stand up against this injustice. No, they say the danger is the Living Wall, vote you prefer for HDZ. That's what voters tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81848	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81849	Comrade Pernar, I think the biggest problem is DORH's work. In order for you to come to court, someone should prepare this before and the DORH in its work so far is responsible for packing such cases as are served by the court. I believe that DORH and state lawyers should be held accountable for such cases when damage is done to certain persons against whom the procedure is being conducted, which ultimately falls, in the first run, they fall, and significant financial damage is done to the Republic of Croatia. For this, responsibility should be borne for those who have initiated criminal proceedings against someone without being based on solid evidence. The State's Attorney's Office is required to respect the argument made in favour of the accused and which goes against. ... It's only then that we start the procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81850	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81851	Ha, Mr. Glavas, I still remember your speech. I've seen it more than once when they took off your immunity. You described there as the moment when Ivo Sanader said from today Glavas no longer exists and it was the title in the Morning List, I guess they serve I don't know, as a note or newsletter of the ruling party and says the next day has actually started packing, etc. And the question arises not only of the corruption of the judiciary itself, but also of its political instrumentalisation, i.e. selective approach to processes, and finally, what the state does, to arrest people and let them go, as they described it as sports fishing. What's that for? If you're going to release them at first, if you're not going to convict them, then don't do the parade and the circus in front of the cameras. Just say the word, you're all dealing with free crime, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81852	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. He'll be the first on behalf of the club... and I'm sorry, I didn't see you answer the line. Here's your colleague, Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81853	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I must say that your proposal is flat. So, you haven't even considered the full regulation regarding courts, but you've decided on how judges should now be punished. I disagree with that and I will, unlike the entire opposition who will probably speak against the system in favour of the system from my personal corner because I know exactly what the courts do, how they do it and why it is good for Croatian citizens. Of course, the government there will speak for the court's task, not for the task, but for the arguments and the facts that I have. And that's why in my individual debate, I'm going to be a lawyer in favor of the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81854	Thank you. We're going to a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, the first one will speak for a respected representative, Marija Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81855	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to do a very short and summed up on this motion of the Living Wall. My colleague Pernar had an exposé of almost 30 minutes talking about his impressions and reasons for proposing such an amendment to the law. I must remind him that there is a trio of government in our country. to see the vice president, but he can look somewhere. [[/Intruder Reiner: You can't remind him because he left the hall, but go ahead.]] Therefore, one of the three-division authorities is also based on an independent judicial authority. The proposed solution would also negatively affect the independence and independence of judges in the work, and their right to the Constitution is guaranteed. The constitution also stipulates that the rulings are made publicly on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, which means that judges do not make decisions on their own behalf but on behalf of the State. The responsibility of the Republic of Croatia for the illegal operation of its bodies stems from its position as a guarantee of legal certainty and the rule of law, and is regulated by a series of specific laws. Citizens may, in the prescribed procedure, seek compensation for damages if they consider that they are damaged by judges or other representatives of the State, and it is the State that can continue to charge or settle in a regressive procedure in such cases. So talking about the problems in the judiciary in such a flat-rate manner and proposing amendments to the law in such a flat-rate way is very harmful and I can only conclude that such a proposal to amend the law can result either from the ignorance of the entire normative framework, the entire legal system or from a political agenda that rests on the destruction of all institutional and non-compliance with the system of values in which all fundamental rights rest, and one of the most important constitutional rights, is the rule of law. Here is my colleague, Pernar, who has not come to the Committee on Legislative Affairs or to present his proposal to the Committee on Justice, I can only conclude that his committees were not as attractive as they were. I don't know what other conclusion she might draw. And I can also tell him that the obligation of each of us to be responsible in our work and to do our job responsibly, and we show it through our work not only here at the plenary session but also through our work on committees. In short, I can say that the HDZ Club cannot support such a proposal because it is primarily illegal and unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81856	Thank you very much. The next club is the HNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81857	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Very short. I thought there'd be a little bit of an introductory explanation according to the three rows that are still in our material but apparently it's only a judicial cancer wound that requires more attention, so I understand Mr. Pernar why you took a little more freedom to talk about things that aren't on the agenda. Of course we agree that it should be better, faster and we work on it and that a series of laws that we have passed go in that direction and we need to give all the support there. As for the measure itself and the sentence that changes that the judge is responsible for the damage himself, just a few of the things Mr. Pernar said I'll look back. At first, he said they weren't responsible for the damage that wasn't true. In accordance with the existing paragraph 2 of Article 105, they are regressively responsible for any damage to the party in the procedure they have done or caused by their illegal or incorrect work in the conduct of a judicial duty. So we're talking about whether it's better for a client or if you think it's going to charge more than a state or an individual? I think they'll be charged by the state sooner. Then we're talking about putting in order judges who obviously don't do their duty honorably even though it's determined as such. Namely, if we were to look at it this way, then we could easily pull the parallel and with the state's attorney's office, and say if some state attorney deliberately file a court case, and then it's like he takes off his responsibility, then I won't decide whether it's good or not to let the court decide, so that the court accepts it by some crazy case, and then it's established that it wasn't actually justified. So be careful how much there is if and then they're going to answer for their jobs. So imagine that they must still be responsible for their honorable work? Of course, it would be kind of human to have everyone responsible for what they're doing, how much it would do to counter some effect that people want to do that job, that they want to do that job, and then they can do it. I think it would just give us a counterproduct so that we don't speed up the judiciary, so that a lot of cases won't be prosecuted, and in that way we don't get to what we need, and of course that more legal certainty in the Republic that will then stimulate the economy and everything else that it has, of course, also a sense of justice. We always have this feeling that everything breaks over the back of little people and that they are regularly processed and punished quickly, and that these big and ragged it out can't be spread, etc. It's something we've been saying and on the report itself or in the appointment of a state attorney at perception should certainly be done for free of 10 cases if 9 you've got both convictions and indictments if the tenth one that's far greater, far more media-interested you haven't done well, then this all the more or less in perception falls into the water, so we can understand from that side. I think we'd go into this part, we'd go deep into both the government's trio and the independent judiciary in the sense that how it's now made that there's a responsibility and we just need to make mechanisms to implement it, the law that's good and that's supposed to exist. Don't change it but make it in... the direction, that there are indeed illegalities if there are and that judges are regressive if both illegality and damage are established in a separate procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It exists now. I think that's all we have to look for to make that performance part. This is all the other excuse that some, I can say, justified frustrations to the judiciary are mentioned here, but I don't think this is the way we're going to solve them, and I think we should also turn to implementing measures and lawyers that will ensure the implementation of the law that I think is good because I repeat, we're going to charge ourselves in the Republic rather than the individual and I think that responsibility... The Republic of Croatia shall, through its authorities, ask the judges to do so, and this is how the law should be, and therefore, the HNS Club will not support these amendments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81858	Thank you very much. The next club is the SDSS representative on behalf of whom the respected representative Boris Milosevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81859	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. As advocates, we often, in fact, constantly use the opportunity to criticise the judiciary for this speaker regardless of whether it is addressed to the DORH or to the judiciary and very often these criticisms are not without a basis, they also have their basis. I think that each of us has some particular case that he knows, which has caused him attention and actually a sense of injustice and dissatisfaction with regard to the conduct of either the DORH or the judiciary. I was personally when I became a representative following a case which was in the municipal court, then after the county in Split where there was one case, meaning where a citizen was beaten up in '98. On Orthodox Christmas, his family was waiting for the verdict to become powerful only after 20 years, so this year. This bill of law goes after the judge directly to be called, to be told you are the most responsible, you must pay for your mistakes. This postulate, if adopted, sounds very tempting, but we still cannot disagree with the government's statement that there should be a regulated system of responsibility. The party may not be able to process as rightly as possible to assess whether or not the judge has committed something illegal or wrong. That's why there's always a senior court, so we have established control of decision-making because every party actually loses its dispute, it's unsatisfactory and thinks that the judge just damaged it by his actions and that it's this judge who's guilty of why she failed in the dispute. And any verdict that the Supreme Court has abolished is in fact not in accordance with the law. She's illegal, the judge has made a mistake, but that's why we have this system, we have the Constitution guaranteed the right to appeal. That's how it's arranged in the state service. Any solution that is abolished is in fact not in accordance with the law, whether each official will now answer. I personally think that such a proposal would actually cause a counterproduct, would cause a situation for courts or judges to start avoiding difficult cases, to move them away from themselves, not to solve them, to solve only lighter cases that are not complex or the situation for higher courts to protect lower courts, not to reach for the legal tools that are now at their disposal. It is difficult to build a stable judiciary in which citizens would trust. It takes time, therefore, to do so for a longer period of time, to invest the state in material assumptions, in education, in the perfecting of judges, in better legislation, rounding the judiciary into an effective whole that will be able to absorb in an appropriate way a large inflow of cases. Someone mentioned, I think it was a fellow Glasovic that we actually have a lot of former personnel so that it was from the former system so that it was somehow the cause of the bad situation in the judiciary, I disagreed with it, my personal opinion is that whoever agreed or disagreed with that fact, that it was actually one of the causes and reasons, the cleanup that was made in the judicial positions of the 90s, because when the Christmas Constitution was adopted, then a new system was established, a new appointment mechanism of judges was established, or a particular body was set up, it was the State Judicial Council that would appoint judges, the judges became a permanent act of duty and it was actually a legal limbo where judges were appointed in the former system, they were highlighted by the mandate, and the DSV cases that should be appointed by the Constitution, which should be appointed as a permanent establishment of the new system. And then we had a very different practice. We had judges who stood out for the term of office, some judges got a solution to stop their mandate, to stop being judges, to no longer be able to act their duty, some judges were simply told verbally, you're no longer judges, pack your things, you can't do that job anymore, and some simply came up acting as if nothing had happened. According to the incomplete data I have, it's only '90s. and '91. Some 200 solutions on the resolution of judges are therefore incomplete data, these solutions are not all published in the National Journal. And when you're looking at the '90s. By '96, only those solutions, the resolutions that were published in the People's Newspaper, were around 2200. The judges' salaries in those years were embarrassingly low, embarrassingly low, and now that we look at, so low wages, a complex and non-transparent choice of judges that resulted in 35% of the courts' seats being unfulfilled plus a large number of cases that just arrived and created one mass of cases and problems that we haven't managed to solve in an adequate way. So politics has made one situation for the judiciary to be found in the vacuum, and often solutions were actually made not by professional criteria, but by political and ethnic criteria. A large number of judges at the time reacted in a way that actually changed profession because people were simply disqualified. Since then, we've been trying to get the judiciary up on our feet and it's going really hard because, therefore, that opportunity we had in the '90s, the establishment of a new system to make it miss it, we've actually gone backwards. The second opportunity was the EU accession process where we had an EU conditionality policy to strengthen the justice system and its independence. Then we made a certain step, we can't say we didn't. Steps are made. Were these steps sufficient, it is now the subject of our debate and daily evaluations and of the public and of us as parliamentary representatives that in every debate when we discuss the judiciary, we say whether it is okay or not. Sometimes we think that step is insufficient. A fellow Alexic may be talking about positive examples, some others as our promoter Pernar will talk about negative examples. I personally think the step is done, but he's still not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81860	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Goran Aleksic called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81861	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I said I'd be a lawyer today to speak in favor of the courts, I have reasons for that. I've been in contact with the courts directly and indirectly for the last seven years. This proposal from his colleague Pernar, he said ours, is not our proposal but his proposal. So, it's not a proposal from the Live Wall and the Power Club, it's a proposal from a colleague of Pernar. Even if it were the club's proposal, I might support it just for the sake of debate, even if I don't agree with it. Let's get some things straight and clear up with some things. The proposal for judges to be punished in this way as proposed by the draft of the Law, the bill, is pussal. It was not previously analysed and in accordance with other laws, with the Constitution, therefore, it is the opposite of some laws, as well as the Constitution. But what I would like to say is positive court practice and why courts are actually needed as bread and water to all of us and why they do good work at the end of the day. As you know, I'm from the Franak Association, and now I've been on the SNAGA site and for the past seven years, I've said, directly and indirectly, I've been involved in court proceedings, and I've started some private court proceedings myself, and I have first-hand experience. So I'm going to mention some dishes, but also some judges in a positive context. So let me start from the beginning. In 2012, Franak raised the first and only collective lawsuit against 8 banks through the Consumer Association. At the time most people were laughing at us, what we want, what we want, how we're going with these banks, so we don't stand a chance. However, the lawsuit was very well-founded and Judge Radovan Dobronic, whom I must mention here, at the I degree at the Trade Court, ruled in favour of the debtor. He ruled that banks had negotiated unfair interest rates that were changed by bank decisions and that banks had negotiated an unfair currency clause for the Swiss franc. First of all, it is unfair because banks did not warn debtors of the risks arising from the negotiation of such a currency clause. In fact, the banks made a consumer habit of consummation, with the habit of various companies selling their products, in fact, debtors to negotiate such loans because they then had a lower interest rate and Judge Radovan Dobrinić explained it on some 80 pages in detail or even 180, now I don't even remember how much it was, very clearly, very clearly, very clearly why such loans are actually unfair and why banks should deprive consumers. Unfortunately, later, the High Commercial Court did not fully confirm the verdict, but confirmed half of it. Therefore, he confirmed that the banks had indeed negotiated an unfair interest rate that was changed by the decision of the bank, but considered that the CHF currency clause was agreed in a fair manner, but above all because the High Commercial did not want to establish the unfairness of such a contractual provision by considering a conservative approach under the mandatory relationship law that it was allowed and there was no more to be discussed. The Supreme Court confirmed the high court ruling, followed by a constitutional suit and fortunately, we have a Constitutional Court which is not a judicial body, but which found that the Supreme Court was wrong because it did not wish to establish the dishonesty of the currency clause, but had conservatively approached the problem and only because it was allowed to establish that it was fair. Afterwards, the EU court reached its verdict C186/16 and the Supreme Court changed its position. And what I can say now is that the Supreme Court did well. The Supreme Court has returned the proceedings to the High Court of Commerce. And we are now awaiting a new ruling from the High Court of Commerce, we have been waiting for half a year, I hope that the verdict will come soon, but the case-law across the EU, the case-law of the EU court, is such that I simply, I expect the High Court of Commerce, will confirm Judge Radovan Dobrinic's verdict, which he did not do for the first time. I must also say what the President of the EU Court of Justice said about loans with the CHF currency clause, he said very clearly and loudly in an interview with a Slovenian daily, therefore, Choen Lenarz, the President of the EU Court of Justice, said that consumers are not obliged to pay an disproportionate cost of credit, which stems from the increased exchange rate and that in that case, banks must pay the difference back to consumers. So, the president of the EU court, undoubtedly, said that loans with the CCF currency clause should be unfair and that in such a case banks should return the exchange rate to consumers and we are now awaiting a ruling by the High Court of Commerce. We'll have to accept it for whatever it is. If she's negative, next, a new review at the Supreme Court. However, what else is happening in the courts? It happens that a powerful part of the verdict is one that speaks of the dishonesty of the interest rate. So at this point, I personally own two hundred and 50 first-degree convictions that the debtors must be returned to overpaid interest and the corresponding tight interest rate. So, these about 200 judges, I won't mention them by name, because I don't even know their names, but those 200 judges, they've already taken the stand, that the debtors need to be paid back the interest and the corresponding tightening interest. I also own 10 powerful verdicts, which have been found to have to return overpaid interest and a corresponding tightening interest. At this point, there is a question of an outdated claim, which is determined in the Supreme Court. I must say, I am also grateful to the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court, Đuri Sesa, for coming out to meet the Franak Association, who held a conference last week on judicial practice, so thanks to the fact that Supreme Court President Đuro Sesa came to the meeting of the Franak Association, President of the Supreme Court Department Damir Kontrec, participated in the conference. And he made it clear at the conference that the Supreme Court will soon decide on doubts concerning an outdated claim on the basis of a collective court process. He did not say it would be decided by the Supreme Court, but he said that very quickly the Supreme Court would decide on it, however, he said within a few weeks, for the longest month. So the Supreme Court realized the importance of the process, that it was important for society, and therefore the decision will be made very quickly. I can't say anything negative about courts, I can only say about these cases that I'm talking about, maybe a little too long, that it might have already been over, but justice will eventually come. And I'm telling the debtors that justice will arrive and I'm telling the debtors from this place not to wait for the services of overpaid interest, because the verdict in a particular case is a powerful one, except for Sperbank, so for all the other seven banks, the verdict is a powerful one and there's no reason to wait. People who have made the conversion of CHF credit, they must wait for the High Court ruling, but everyone else will certainly get a verdict in their favour. And I have to mention one very important verdict for a legal person. Thus, the Split County Court, the Split High, in fact the High Commercial Court, confirmed the judgment of the Split Commercial Court, which ruled that the legal person Vrana d.o.o. he receives overpaid interest in the amount of 603,000 kn. So, Hypo adico banka robbed the crow d.o.o. For 603,000 kn, plus a tight interest, that's about a million kuna. It is another positive verdict that speaks in favour of Croatian citizens this time, for the benefit of a legal person. So from my point of view, the courts have a very positive score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81862	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. And now we'll welcome, first of all, the students of Jura Dalmatinca elementary school from Pag, who look at us from above... And we're going to take a stand on behalf of the club. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-04-0.u81863	Proposal for a law amending the Law on Courts, first reading, P.Z. Number 303. Proposer is Agent Ivan Pernar, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: no draft law amending the Law on Courts is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 75 for and 19 abstentions and 5 votes against, have come to the conclusion that it has been proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Now we move to the agenda, the first point is: - Proposal for a law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen, first reading, P.Z. Number 330. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs Zdravka Busic. Here's the secretary of state.
