ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u92474	We're moving on. Next on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party Representatives, Reformists and Independent Representatives, colleague Rechim Varda, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u92475	My colleagues and colleagues, on several occasions, and from this fellow speaker in a free word, refer to the city of Zagreb, its mayor as if they did not have their own representatives in the city assembly where we should actually discuss in a direct relationship with the problems or issues that are raised here and hear the reasoned answer. On many occasions we've heard it here, I haven't reacted, and I think this is the only time and last time I've ever responded to it, there's some things I should ignore. However, I do need to briefly look back at the recent media releases of a SDP counterpart compared to the three buses the city of Zagreb donated. You could hear that, and it's all about charges of political trade because someone's turning into another party or party. If we start from the very essence of political action, then the focus should be the prosperity and improvement of our citizens, the even development of Croatia, solidarity with those who have fewer because we are ultimately all here, at least that's how it should be. Have you ever wondered if party members have any goals, some projects that would like to analyze in their territory or are thought to be there because the party wants to and should listen blindly and serve not strangers, but its leaders who have some personal ambitions, mostly based on such media acts, on attacks and criticise those who do them. I don't mind helping undeveloped areas they call political trade so they trade tomorrow. And as we can all testify to the city of Zagreb and its mayor in the 6th term, it is solid with all those who are in need, whether it is a common little man or a municipality or a city where people live, have their own needs, and the opponents attack, criticise, interpret how they suit them, do press conferences, and so we spin around in circles. The city of Zagreb donated a fire truck, borrowed drinking water tanks, borrowed the equipment for repairing the damage in flooded areas, donated free books, helped to restore the market and here at the end and buses. Does anyone really consider in this assembly that the City of Zagreb is an economic, political, cultural, financial centre of the Republic of Croatia, which carries one-third of the economy, one-quarter of the population, which is the capital of the Croatian Metropolis, does anyone think that Zagreb should be locked up in its administrative borders and hold everything for itself and its residents, as we have recently heard? And then we'll get to that exchange we used to have in Belgrade, now we'll say Zagreb = Belgrade. This is actually the platform we are calling for by closing the city of Zagreb in its borders. I see that the SDP at that press conference that he mentions so, but I believe that the Zagrebs don't think because we're a small country, there's us from all parts of Croatia and we want even development, we want developed Slavonia, developed Lika and Gorski Kotar, developed islands and coast to the pride of all of us wherever we step and wherever we come. Would it not be good to live in all of Croatia as in Zagreb, that the average salary is higher, unemployment is about 4% than in Zagreb, that social sensitivity in all of Croatia is as high as in Zagreb, that we are all developing and staying in Croatia, that we have no reason to look for our place under the sun somewhere else? This is what the city of Zagreb and its mayor stand for and we stand for it as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u92476	Thank you. We can go to the first point of today's debate, the first point of the agenda, and that is - Proposal for a Law on State Inspectorate, first reading, P.Z. No. 459 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We also have a representative of the proposing economy, entrepreneurship and crafts minister, Mr Darko Horvat, who will, on behalf of the promoter, introduce. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98972	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives, ladies and gentlemen. Today, we present a proposal for a Law on State Inspectorate to regulate inspection operations in the department of the State Inspectorate, its structure and management, the conditions for carrying out inspection tasks, the duties and powers of the inspector to protect the public interest and public health interests in the implementation of the rules laid down in the Part-Corruption of the State Inspectorate and the criminal liability. As regards the part of the State Inspectorate, the proposed law regulates inspection operations taken over from the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and Trade, the Ministry of Labour and Pensions, the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the Ministry of Agriculture other than the Fisheries Inspectorate, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, except for the supervision of the buildings of state importance and part of the customs administration of the Ministry of Finance which were before the abolition of the State Inspectorate in part. In particular, it is about the taking over of inspection operations from the 17 inspections set up within the 8 ministries listed, i.e. leaving the organisation, inspection according to the portfolios. In recent years, such an organisation has shown shortcomings both in organisational and functional terms. The proposed law is therefore based on the functional principle of the organisation of inspections through the conduct of inspection operations within the single central state office, organisationally independent of other central authorities of the state administration. The legal framework for the conduct of inspection tasks is currently governed by a series of laws, the Law on Inspections in the Economy, the Law on Tourist Inspection, the Labour Inspectorate Act, the Customs Service Act, the Law on Sanitary Inspection, the Law on Construction Inspection and a set of other laws governing certain administrative areas, including the conduct of inspection tasks in those areas. The current segmentation of inspections requires new approaches to the regulation of the operation of inspections and this bill sets out a legal framework for the more effective performance of inspection operations from the work of the future State Inspectorate. With regard to the internal structure, this proposal shall, in a unique manner, regulate the internal organisation of inspections through the establishment of the central office, the district offices and the premises of the district offices, as well as the conditions for all inspection posts to which the inspectors of the State Inspectorate will be deployed. In a functional sense, the draft law lays down common rules and principles in the conduct of inspectors, as appropriate coordination will be achieved through the conduct of inspection tasks within the single body and the equalisation of the conduct of inspections to supervisory entities and compliance with the regulations which entities in this work, in their work and operation must comply with. From the aspect of the administrative areas covered by this draft law, inspection operations are pooled against the application of regulations governing the operation of trade, catering activities, the provision of services in tourism and other service activities. In the area of control of rules on food and food for animals, the part of the State Inspectorate shall include official controls carried out by the inspection of the ministries responsible for agriculture, i.e. veterinary and border veterinary inspection, as well as the agricultural inspection and the Ministry of Health, Sanitary and Border Sanitary Inspection. In addition to the area of official food and feed controls, the proposal combines and controls on the safety of consumer non-food products to protect consumers' economic interests, with a view to strengthening the protection of health, safety and economic interests of consumers in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Also in the administrative area of construction by uniting the building inspection will strengthen the supervision of the legality of construction and use of buildings as well as in the final inspection of the complementary inspection activities of environmental protection, nature, water economy and areas of mining, energy, pressure equipment and chemicals. The integration of inspection jobs will also lead to more effective control of the grey economy, hence unregistered activity and undeclared work of workers. In doing so, the same competition for all economic operators. Therefore, the control of the legality of the activities and work of workers is an area that requires a coordinated and comprehensive approach to inspections in order to achieve the conditions of an equal competition for all business entities, which, due to the current division of competences and different inspections in the field of the supervision of the lawfulness of the activity, does not provide sufficient effective results either. In this area, in order to strengthen the efficiency and capacity of inspection services, the proposed powers shall be conferred on all data-gathering inspectors relating to the identification of persons subject to supervision and all persons found at the place of surveillance and the notification of labour inspectors in order to carry out the necessary controls. At the same time, labour inspectors shall have the power to request documentation and data relating to the supervision of the general conditions of performance and, in the event of a suspicion of any illegality, to inform the competent inspector of the State Inspectorate. In general, with regard to coordination with the proposed adoption of annual work programmes, the obligation to adopt a coordinated surveillance programme between inspections which are competent in certain administrative areas is also imposed and thus, appropriate monitoring planning will be produced by a gradual reduction in the number of controls currently exposed by economic operators due to the fragmentation of the supervisory process. With regard to reducing the level of repression against economic operators, it is important to point out that the proposed law introduces significant changes in the conduct of the inspectors towards economic operators and related to the infringement procedure. The draft law, with the already present principle of opportunity from the Criminal Law, in the work of the inspector of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, introduces the same principle into the conduct of inspections of the State Inspectorate. By applying that principle, the inspector shall not initiate an infringement procedure for the purpose of committing minor infringements if the supervised legal or natural person removes irregularities and deficiencies during inspection or until a solution has been adopted and if it is for a determined irregularity to adopt a solution and the supervised person has acted according to the decision of the inspector. The same would apply to cases where the supervised person assumes that the minutes are subject to an obligation to remove the irregularities and deficiencies identified in the inspection control within a certain period. However, the application of that principle excludes serious offences that endanger the life, safety and health of people, property of greater value, environment, cases where administrative measures are prescribed and return to the same offence by the supervised person within a year. A clear regulation of cases in which an inspector, as an authorised prosecutor, will not initiate an infringement procedure shall avoid the discretionary assessment of the inspector to decide independently on the application of new institutes and thus establish certain control mechanisms in the application of them by the inspectors. In conclusion, the proposer considers that this law will allow for more efficient conduct of inspection operations with the aim of encouraging economic operators to comply with the rules and consequently, if they remove irregularities in their business and which are identified in inspection supervision. The primary objective of inspection is to comply with regulations rather than sanctioning, so unless the economic operator repeats the same infringements through repeated controls, this will also result in the preventive role of inspection supervision. Based on everything here and mentioned, we propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this law as it allows for more effective conduct of inspection tasks and more coherent action of inspections to monitor the application of regulations and reduce repression against economic operators if they remove irregularities in their business. Following all of this, I would like the Croatian Parliament to adopt the law in question, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98973	Thank you. We have 14 replicas on your exhibit. The first is his colleague, Žagar, the second is his colleague Klisovic. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98974	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, I'm going to say something more about this law in the debate, but now there's one thing that's really bothering me, and I believe that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are also tortured. We had a case with the Law on the Communist Economy, you here in Article 56 you state that a building inspector can enter a home, be careful, you're saying he can do it without a warrant. According to Article 34. The constitution, the home is uninjured. In Article 100, you have added more under the Law on Construction Inspection (room and business premises), so this law offends or violates the home as one of the most important constitutional categories. I ask you, wipe that article, remove that article because it may happen that a man today mixes a little caste, fills the holes he made yesterday because he hung the wrong picture, the neighbor reports it, the second day inspector will come, he will enter without a warrant into his home. That's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98975	Thank you. A colleague, Klisovic, followed by his colleague, Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98976	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. You said that the purpose of this law is to comply with regulations, not sanctioning, I agree with that, of course, it's the foundation of the rule of law, that we respect the rules we have adopted. But setting up only bodies will not lead to better respect for regulations. The standard of work, best practices in a particular area, are and should be insisted if we want to do quality work. Now, that's what I want to talk to you about. It is very common in the perception of citizens that the inspection services have just laid down corruption in the country and that with their work inspectors, not all of them, of course, but a good part of them, are precisely favoring this corrupt perception of other citizens. They charge fines when they don't have to and can deal with them when they let it go. I wonder how this law wants to be dealt with precisely by such poor practices as the work of Croatian inspectors? How does this law contribute to improving the perception of Croatian inspectors among Croatian citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98977	Thank you, next is colleague Tušek, followed by colleague Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98978	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I will be concise, above all, commending the bill as it is, of course, in the first reading, there will be some other suggestions and we hope that they will be respected. The law itself as such may be a reflex character, the current segmentation of inspections was terribly bad for businessmen, craftsmen and entrepreneurs who were more involved in collecting paperwork for different unordinated inspection controls than they were in their work, should be tried if it is possible to put all inspections under the same hat, first of all here I think of the part relating to the construction inspection. The inspectorate needs to be set up in a way that really makes it a partner of the economy, and it already does, in some way now, in some ways, what's most important, finds ways for people who do such sensitive and complex jobs to actually pay. It is impossible to expect that people who do such complex things and who are in contact with such sensitive matter will be motivated, professional and competent if... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Hajdaš Doncic: Thank you, colleague Tušek.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98979	Next colleague Križanic, followed by counterpart Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98980	... The State Inspectorate Act due to the combined planned reduced and repressive action in principle, however, I would like to ask you about the safety of food that has so far been included in the health and veterinary inspection, until now they have never been in the inspectorate. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We are all in favour of the maximum traceability of food from field to table, as well as the monitoring of food imports to the Republic of Croatia from either the EU or third countries. Now what do I care? I would like to know how this law regulates co-ordination, so the system of commanding in crisis situations between the Ministry of Agriculture and Health on the one hand, which also writes implementing acts on the other hand, and who will be the competent food authority. Will it be the ministry or the inspectorate? He's not rooting for anyone, but I'm curious, that's exactly what needs to be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98981	Thank you. Next is fellow Bull, followed by Luc-Polanc Martha.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98982	Thank you very much. Ministers, in 2014, the inspectorate had 786 employees, tell us how much you now plan to be employees while everyone is together, how many employees they will now be and tell me, the same thing as my colleague Križanić, food safety. How will you do when you connect out? The agriculture departments will control, which will be a subordination, as said a colleague of animal food control, imports of GMO products, imports of harmful foods coming into our market, which restricts the development of our domestic producers, in what way will it control and who will be in charge? Is there going to be someone in charge who's an expert, competent from the Ministry of Agriculture or some lobbyist inspector you're going to appoint as chief inspector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98983	Thank you. Next is counterpart Luc-Polanc and after her, co-worker Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98984	Thank you. Your Honors Minister, in your opening statement, you presented and presented this law, as a union of inspections, the creation of a single body that will technically and organisationally create a structure for the better and quality work of inspectors. I can accept that idea as such. However, when I read these laws and in my individual debate, I will present some illogicalness. I ask you, in what way do you consider to ensure it, and first of all to ensure that you have the quality of work, it is the independence of the inspector in his work. I can also see in your opening statement that the inspector will be like an advisory or preventive body. However, we must understand that the inspectors are a repressive body, so they are the ones who control law enforcement. And I'm just afraid that this inspectorate, as you designed it, is exactly how much he's going to give independence to the inspectors, because you're putting people on executive bodies without, with less conditions, than conditions that need to be met by the inspectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98985	Thank you, colleague. Next is counterpart Cikotic, after her, colleague Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98986	Dear Ministers, I am interested in how it is planned to improve the protection of workers through better quality labour inspection because we are faced, we have insight through the media, and through public debate it has been pointed out that in the portfolio of the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, it is a deficit of human resources and is also referred to as a negative immersion in such cases of protection of workers' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98987	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Dark Taritash, and after her, Bačić Branko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98988	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, although you have decided not to respond to the replicas, in the opening statement you spoke of, among other things, the reason for the establishment of a state inspectorate, due to united, united certain things. So I'm wondering, why didn't you go all the way through? When it comes to building inspection, the construction inspection will be divided into two parts, one will be in the state inspectorate, and the other will remain in the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and will oversee the permits that the ministry is doing. Well, in the administrative process, it will definitely come up with a problem, but I'm interested in one other thing, other inspections at the ministry, which is in charge of protecting cultural heritage and the ministry, which is in charge of controlling maritime goods. So, if you wanted to carry out everything consistently, then those two inspections should have gone to the state inspectorate, because on cultural good, when someone works, building inspection, they can't act without this inspection, and the maritime inspection, as well as without construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98989	Thank you, colleague. Next is counterpart Branko Bacic, followed by counterpart Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98990	I thank the Vice President, Your Honor, we absolutely support the establishment of a state inspectorate, where a state body would unite the business of various types of economic inspection. In that sense, this criterion is well set, but it would be partly agreed with Mrs Taritash, that it is necessary to establish the uniqueness of the building inspection either in the inspectorate or leave it, as was the case, when there is an earlier state inspectorate within the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. Namely, construction inspection is not an economic inspection, it is an expert inspection, which monitors works in spatial planning and construction from building spatial plans to realising and implementing these same plans, i.e. building buildings and monitoring and monitoring the construction of these facilities. Otherwise, when Mrs. Taritash transferred to split into two parts, I would say that she had already been divided into construction inspections in her term, because part of the construction business was missed by the communal directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98991	Thank you, colleague, next is counterpart Mikulić, after which Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98992	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, I absolutely welcome this proposal, I think some things in the proposal should be changed. I don't know why you didn't predict that the law defines the conduct of inspection supervision within the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. It is also under the current Inspection Act today, I do not know why it was not envisaged under the new proposal, that I do not now elaborate on time. The other thing, what the predecessors said, we have a situation, that one part of the construction inspection remains in the ministry's system, and one part in the state inspectorate is predicted to go. Therefore, it is evident from this that the supervision of state construction is not carried out by an inspectorate, which makes it reasonable to ask whether other laws of law apply to state construction and to those inspectors. And they're the same inspectors. That's about right there, someone's in control of the tuna fishermen and someone's mad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98993	Next colleague Sasa Djujic, followed by counterpart Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98994	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I will speak more in the law in detail in my individual debate. But why did I report for this replica, so in this law, which is full of holes, and which solves a lot of things by regulations, it's stuck to me for about one detail, which is the chief state inspector. So, for gl. State Inspector, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to listen, Mr. Minister, I'd like you to listen, and with Mr. Bukarica, you can talk outside. Thank you very much. So, for gl. The state inspector has no single criteria, who this person is and what are the criteria for that person to be. As long as it's low, it's strictly prescribed. I wonder if it's because he's been talking about it for a year, that he'll see. The state inspector becomes a prominent HDZ parliamentary representative and therefore there are no criteria inside. And I want to know why. The state inspector is elected by the Government, not the Parliament, given that The state inspector has an inspectorate under him who controls and certain Just a little vice president, I've wasted my time warning Mr. Bukarica not to disturb the minister, I wanted his attention, because this is an important question. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you, colleague.]] Let me finish, just three words. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Okay, okay, thank you.]] So, the inspectorate controls certain ministries and certain public enterprises that are under government, which is appointed by the government, whether it is a conflict of interest or should be appointed by the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98995	Thank you. You've taken a little too much time... Please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The next colleague, Vlaovic, followed by his colleague, Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98996	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, most of the objections from the field were that such a system of inspections was not particularly good from small entrepreneurs and craftsmen that every day some inspectors came in on similar or similar issues and rebelled they would have to have a special department that would only be involved in inspection, so this is a good suggestion that the inspections of the United Inspectorate. However, the following observation was made to the inequality, that some inspectors in certain areas went immediately with the penalty, others went with a similar problem with another entrepreneur with some kind of warning. How do you plan to resolve this uniform criterion of the work of inspectors on the ground, especially when it comes to Slavonia and Dalmatia, often remarks in Slavonia that inspectors are much more rigorous and that every day they seek something, to be punished immediately, and, say, in Dalmatia especially in the tourist season is not such a case. So here are the observations from the field, how are you going to set up this surveillance to make the inspections do their job? And the second question is, of course, missing people, low wages, what do you think that inspector's standard is to be independent and to be able to do quality work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98997	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Martinchev's and then she's a colleague of Shucker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98998	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Minister Horvat. You said and indeed this law will contribute to the significant efficiency of inspection services. I would only talk about one segment of the tourist inspection, namely coming from the Sibenik-Knin County where we have a number of over 6 and a half million overnights, almost a million arrivals a year, and that comes down to those two, three summer months, and we have all two tourist inspectors. If the aid will come only from the interior in a number of one, two inspectors, and there is no help from market inspectors and others, I don't think we will contribute to efficiency, so this time the appeal to increase the number of inspectors on the ground and, of course, what the law on catering activity prescribes, that they are also educational.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u98999	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99000	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have provided for this law to enter into force on 1 January. Given the large number of laws that will have to be amended after this law is passed, am I interested in whether it is operationally possible for it to enter into force as of 1 January? So we don't get some kind of vacuum, and then we can have a problem on the ground.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99001	That's what we're done with the replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague of Jelkovac, a colleague of Kosor and a colleague of Reiner's? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, co-workers Cikotic and counterpart Bulj will share. The first one will be co-worker Cikotic, please welcome colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99002	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today we will discuss the State Inspectorate Act. Inspection is the main instrument of proper application of the law and is a means of direct control of the situation in a particular administrative area. The proposal for a law regulates inspection operations taken over from the other ministries, and as it has been similarly arranged according to the National Inspectorate of the State since 2014, they have been under the authority of competent ministries. Before that time inspection jobs were under the state inspectorate, a similar section and way of action as this solution is now being offered. The State Inspectorate carried out 7 and a half million controls on the application of regulations and its competences over the past 15 years and answered over 8,000 questions in the field of action. It's a huge, massive, bureaucratic apparatus, as many procedures as it is, and it takes a turn in action. The measures proposed by the law are more effective in carrying out inspection tasks for legal certainty and supervised persons, citizens, entrepreneurs and others. It is also pointed out that the pooling of inspection jobs under one body will contribute to better coordination and greater efficiency, which is certainly to be expected, and by curbing the grey economy and establishing equality on the market. As regards the taking of infringements, the application of the principle will apply... the criminal law that the inspector does not take the prescribed offences to commit minor offences if the supervised legal or natural person removes the irregularity and deficiency during inspection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The abolition of the State Inspectorate in 2014 has been joined in a systematic, without previous analyses, the long-standing practice of united inspections has been violated and this experiment has undoubtedly proved to be unsuccessful and ineffective. The same led to a whole series of operational illogicalities and problems in coordinating different inspections, so it happened that the entrepreneur had over 3 inspections in his business space in one day because they were not coordinated with each other. Similarly, although under the supervision of the business of several inspections, for certain ambiguities, the entrepreneur had to address the exact competent inspection for the area, even though the solution that the entrepreneur would require would be inter-resorial. Such clarifications would be long-awaited and would cover more areas and would all be at risk of mistreatment over a long period of time, until all relevant inspections were actually taken into account. Through his programme, MOST advocated a unique place where the entrepreneur could get information about his business. One of these information is certainly legitimately operating in accordance with the regulations. Step forward represents the re-establishment of the State Inspectorate. However, the proposed solution is a 20th century solution without a clear vision and additional value for raising global competitiveness and facilitating business in the 21st century. It is necessary to establish through a platform of e-business, e-service for the purpose of raising legal business. Legal regulations change frequently, and constantly some new obligations and changes to bonds are difficult to follow. It is necessary to ensure an adequate mechanism for the information to reach the debtor, it is high time to step up and remove illegal actions that should be affected in a timely and adequate manner in order to direct the flow of information towards those who operate in Croatia. This change is approached by ad hoc and the question of whether it will live with January 2019. It is not part of a wider change of system and certainly its functioning will be accompanied by a few years of establishment and... optimal performance model. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Simplification and rationalisation, which in this step is part of a public administration reform that must be comprehensive. And when we talk about competitiveness, it is necessary to achieve an entrepreneurial positive climate. The public administration action plan and e-Croatia provide for digitisation of the process, networking of public registers, and the deployment and launch of the e-business system. The e-business project was left at the Ministry of Administration, is worth 45 million kuna and exactly the inspection could mean doing certain services to entrepreneurs so that they can legally operate in a way that the platform can finally be established. In the introduction of a single body, it could be said that it is going towards rationalisation but also towards the accumulation of the power it is necessary to ensure that it is guided according to the principle of equality in conduct, according to parties in the procedure. It is necessary to develop provisions relating to transparency and the public of work with a view to uniformity in the conduct of similar infringements by different offenders. It is therefore necessary to access the construction of a transparent and objective system. There's not a word about the system and its construction to meet the parameters on the global competitiveness scale here. It is necessary to ensure that, in addition to the basic competences, the State Inspectorate also has an educational function or obligation for entrepreneurs and other economic operators according to the list of all their obligations. They shall be clearly classified according to the heavy reporting obligation activity. The aim of the State Inspectorate should be to ensure the legality of the business, orientation exclusively, and not exclusively about the orientation towards pensionisation. For example, Austria, on the date of establishment of a business entity, all of its obligations to fulfil the summary on A4 paper and everything that is not on the list does not oblige it and any change is required to notify it within 30 days. Everything he hasn't been informed of, and he's not warned about, he's not bound by it, so he's not being sanctioned for a crime. In view of the concentration of powers, it is necessary to ensure transparency of conduct through the creation of uniform practices, therefore we propose that the Ministry of Economy, together with the Ministry of the Administration, launch a project or e-business, platforms for entrepreneurs that were to be agreed in the third quarter of 2017 and that e-services be developed for those who use and are to be legally treated in the Republic of Croatia to be notified of changes, educational materials, to deliver opinions on actions in different things, to make opinions public and to make electronic communication. We believe that there is a need to further regulate the law itself in predicting the e-services that are intended to develop on the e-business platform and that there is already a need to provide funds for the development of these. Imagine a digitalized system in which inspectors introduce a violation prescribed by law and the intended punishment for the same and now one inspector will provide for a fine of 3 thousand kuna for a certain offence and the other for the same offence in another place will provide for a lower or higher sentence. Imagine a system where at the end of the year you have information about crimes, the number of violations that are repeatedly committed and the number of offenders. And you have information about the disproportionateity of determining the amount of punishment that any inspector has gone out on the ground, with a special assessment of the management staff that is about to take care of this equal treatment. It is precisely through the use of an objective IT tool and the establishment of a methodology that will achieve an objective opinion on the application of the legislation. We further express concern about ad hoc solutions that do not follow additional information activities on the ground and launch a massive system that will certainly be a demanding process. Let's just say the last years of the State Inspectorate's work before it was abolished he carried out 83,000 957 inspection controls of which 41 inspection controls were established in violation of a certain law that the inspectorate was overseeing. We point out that no new innovative solutions have been considered and no specific regulation of the work and approach of the inspector in the future has been given. For example. education for the exercise of advisory functions, raising social intelligence through education and all for the purpose of protecting and equal access to all supervised entities. The MOST of Independent Lists believes that a new State Inspectorate Act is needed but this proposal needs to be significantly improved and another discussion with experts and also citizens who operate in the Republic of Croatia should be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99003	A fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99004	Thank you very much. The merger of inspectorates will simply in one part be centralized power in the hands of one man. The fact that the code here, in law, does not say what conditions will be necessary for the Chief Inspector, would be very important to specify the conditions of who will be or will be enough just a party card which would not be good. This is a very important resort, and it's important because of that, from my personal experience, I can tell about mining and exploitation fields and fighting these people who have been working illegally and raising money where they've affected the inspectorate in the riot where the waste has been put off, where huge money has been raised, where the environment has been polluted in my Cetina area as well as numerous permits similar to mines, but I expect that man's power must be in some kind of co-ordination, especially with regard to food safety. I am really asking the Minister about food safety in which it will be subordination of veterinary inspection because it is very important, mainly animal food, food for animals, meat and these products whether certain coordination, subordination or how it will work because it is nevertheless the most sensitive area in health. Second, the inspection must not be just a body that punishes those in its example. Restaurants, cafes do not have any stickers, so they are charged without warning, enormous penalties or closures, while others use them without any concession permits or illegal permits, maritime well-being. Therefore, it should be uniform, not a political body, a body that will only be able to perform a party infrastructure to please people as it has been done because we know how they were tried on Bol, in the Golden War, and that these structures would not accidentally take over this inspectorate. Only on the maritime good, due to unhappiness, neglect in concessions, inspection is a billion Croatia loses, I speak for my county and in this I am convinced, concreteize, do what they want and while the hosts who have bills, issue an inspection, you do not have a high enough bar, 5 cm is punishment, closes, and of course there is no competition because what I would call, these sponsors of the party and local and national and regional, should be eligible. The Golden War was the most impoverished but so is the Makarska coast, so it's in the trogial hinterland, so in the trogial part, in the Split swimming pool, simply even coalitions, you have Bene beach, the coalition stopped because HDZ gave its coalition partner, that the son of one there, that they beach as a concession and absolutely did not comply with the law. Therefore, the inspection must be an independent body, a body that will serve in competitiveness, serve for competitiveness, the public, transparency of procedures and illegality and, in particular, to be a body that will be advisory, I think this law should aim, this is the first reading, I expect that we will find a model for this body to be not only a body that will be punished and a harrassor by unsuitable people who, for political reasons, do not respond on the ground but will be a body that will work in the interests of all citizens, entrepreneurs, farmers and others. So I'm asking you two questions, Minister. First, what are the conditions for the Chief Inspector, it wants exclusively to be a party card like it has been or will be an independent body, a man who will lead this work and subordination and coordination with these key ministries, essentially the people who run those bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99005	Thank you. We continue on behalf of IDS, PGS and RI, colleague Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99006	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, esteemed and esteemed colleagues and colleagues. On the proposal of the law, I will highlight three facts. First, that the state authorities which have the powers to implement the measures in these 27 years were not effective. Secondly, if the implementation of the rules by state authorities is not applied equally to all areas in the Republic of Croatia, in certain areas I will express myself vividly, some are allowed to do almost anything and everything and others are punished and penalized, and even for the slightest failure. It creates a very bad feeling for citizens, and in no case is it good, and with this practice, it definitely needs to be stopped. The rules we bring should be clear, should be unequivocal and their application and implementation to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be the same. Otherwise, we're passing the law and we're leaving an unsettled system. Third, this bill brings together more inspections and among them a construction inspection. If we claim that more than 800,000 requests for the legalisation of illegally built objects have been filed in these 27 years, if we claim that the authority responsible for the control of the construction of illegal buildings has been on state bodies, then I ask the question, which makes this proposal a guarantee that the construction inspection will be both effective and effective from now on. I point out and stress this because after legalisation of the facilities, it continues to be illegally built, and in particular in the coastal area, space is destroyed, and it is permanently destroyed, and valuable cultures are destroyed, and that is why, as a solution, I propose the following, through a concrete example in the Istrian County. A few years ago, the issue of construction permits was under the authority of the state administration. There were more than 10,000 unsolved cases in the national body for the issue of acts. In order to address the problem, a framework has been created to allow the transfer of powers from the state administration or from the state office to the county. It is also possible for the county to transfer powers to cities in Istria by agreement. Over a year and a half days, more than 10,000 remaining unsolved items were solved while cases were being processed parallelly and newly arrived. So with the same people who worked at the State Administration Office, who moved to the city administration offices, for the sole reason that jurisdiction was transferred to the cities, I repeat, in a year and a half more than 10,000 unsolved cases. So until the second reading, Mr. Minister, it is worth thinking that powers should be transferred according to the above-mentioned model. I will be picturesque, the fire in the coast cannot be extinguished from Zagreb and cannot wait for a decision from Zagreb, as preventive measures are being taken directly on the site and on the ground. In addition, I believe it would be worth thinking about why all units of local self-government had an obligation to develop a strategy for the development of the economy for the reason that in the coastal area a large majority of the master plans for tourism development, that on the one hand space is controlled and the processes are directed, apart from building inspection, it would be worth considering having powers transferred to the local community and regarding economic inspection and as regards sanitary inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99007	Thank you. Before continuing on behalf of the clubs, now intervention, Minister, please, Mr Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99008	Thank you, Vice President. So here by listening carefully and recording all of these, let's call it spotted on your side of the lack of this law, I can say that we are contigent of these remarks in fact able to come down to three key ones. So, we all have at least so far, and I'm sure that it will be so and until the end of the debate, we agree that we need a single administrative body and that this forest of inspectors should be aware of one vertical, regardless of whether they call it centralised but the only pre-planned system, I think that for entrepreneurs, primarily on the ground, primarily through the organization of the field offices and their facilities, be not an advisory body, but to allow entrepreneurs to make those unintended mistakes that occur from day to day, not be treated as a deliberate violation, we do not carry out repressive measures, but to give them an opportunity at so-called. easier violations to repair or at the moment of inspection or by issuing a solution to the hand in which the solution has been issued. The second great grudge was a construction inspection. Which is why the building inspection is currently experiencing two verticals, two ingenuities and why it's being shared. So we have opinions and we have proposed by law that only those buildings for which the State or the Ministry has issued a building permit remain in the authority and exercise inspection supervision of the Ministry itself. In a sentence or a number, it's just four inspectors today. A fellow parliamentary representative, or respected parliamentary representative, has seen one thing that I may say, perhaps in the law itself, and is not explained in a way that is crystal clear, so entering a business space with inspection supervision, yes, but not when this space is treated as a home but when treated as a construction site. I don't give an opportunity for an inspector to enter the site without any warrant or perform all the necessary documentation and make an insight into the monitoring of the labour force that is happening there and the activities that are happening at that site, I think they would greatly prevent inspectors from being in inspection. Third maybe a key and a very important thing, food. Ingence over the definition of a legislative framework which the law considers necessary to remain in the hands of the ministries because the ministries are the ingenuity of creating a legislative framework and inspection supervision of the implementation of what is required through this legislative framework. I cannot agree with the problems raised here related to the inspection view of concessions because concessions are neither subject to nor the jurisdiction of this law, the Law on concessions and the register treats concessions with a different mode and inspector in the area and in the area of concession space there will be no authority. How we will succeed in paying or other material rights to ensure that the inspectors are not corrupt, that the inspector is not implemented in different ways by the same legislative framework, so through the establishment of the Central State Office by the basis of the legislative framework in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the inspector will become a central administrative body, be led by someone who will have the powers and rights and today the parity of the State Secretary, all State Secretarys so far appointed by the Government of the Republic, so that the Head of the State Inspectorate and his 4 assistants will be elected in a public competition, and these people will have to explain by law how to meet very strict criteria, perhaps a little and too strict today, in order to then and through the establishment of the central, regional offices of the field offices one and flexible but at the same time and effective organisation that will have a pyramid and where to know who are going to make plans and who implement the same plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99009	Thank you. At your presentation we have 4 replicas but before the replica we welcome the students of the School of Economics and Management from Osijek who joined us at the gallery. Welcome and welcome. First replica, colleague Luc-Polanc. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99010	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I still cannot agree with you when you say that inspectors or the activities of inspectors should be educational, advisory and preventive before they are repressive, and here you state some minor violations where clients and parties are then warned. Well, it would be good to once clarify which ones are softer or so-called. Some, even use the term "bagatile violations," because when you leave too much subjectivity and discretionary assessment options, then there are also major abuses in the system. And you have to understand that inspection supervision, inspection work, very responsible, it's about human destiny, and it's not easy for these people to work if they don't have clear criteria and clear conditions to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99011	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99012	Thank you, honourable parliamentary representative, for these remarks. So this educational component, I would certainly not treat as educational, so it's not the inspectors who are going to conduct education on the ground. But if there's been a slight misdemeanor, I think at this point that we've been working on the bill, we've had a situation so far where inspectors don't mean what to do at this point. Therefore, this provision enters as a legal article and clearly suggests and clearly states to every inspector that for a minor injury there is an opportunity to warn a statement of a measure that is not repressive. Recurrence or error will be considered intentional and will then result in a repressive measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99013	Next colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99014	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, I'm glad the Honorable Minister decided to respond to our replicas, because I had a feeling in those first dogs barking caravans passing through, but good. As far as the construction inspection is concerned, so think about it, it's just not good, you can't solve the mess with a new mess, the more that there's a provision in this law when you transfer the ministry, issue a permit to a local level, and it can, because the ministry is issuing a permit, for example, a waterway route, if it goes over 2 counties and it's not the jurisdiction of the state, there's a building inspection that's going to be in this inspectorate. Don't do that, don't do that, or any inspection, be if you decide to go to the State Inspectorate or return her to the Ministry. The more there are other inspections, the more you look at the treatment of cultural well-being. The inspector will come out, and he will inform the inspector at the ministry, so he will inform the inspector at the Ministry responsible for the protection of cultural heritage, so don't mess with the new mess.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99015	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99016	And while I had the opportunity to sit in this high house, I have applied as the profession of your every opinion and reflection, so we will do this. I mentioned today that we also consider a legal proposal in the ministry's management, we left those buildings that have a building permit issued by the ministry, but with this very purpose, our wish was, regardless of all these recommendations and doubts that this legislative framework, can be revived by 1.1 we wanted and we insisted that we avoid an emergency parliamentary procedure. Through this first reading, through a constructive debate like this, I am sure there will be more than one constructive proposal, which will then receive certain interventions in the law and until the second reading, which I am sure will happen within a month, I am sure that some of these proposals will be both the composition and the draft of the law based on his second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99017	Thank you. Here you go, pal Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99018	Thank you very much. Minister, I don't know whether it was intentional or accidental, but you haven't answered two important questions that we asked in the debate, one thing that makes the law prevent widespread corruption between inspectors and the perception of citizens that this is a matter of corruption, and the other thing is, why did you propose that the Chief Inspector appoints a government and responds to the government when he actually controls with the inspector the work of the government's body. Do you, in fact, lead to a situation where the government will control the state inspectorate and thus prevent institutions from doing their job as we usually say. Why didn't you suggest that the Parliament appoint a chief state inspector and answer here in Parliament, as well as a state attorney? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99019	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99020	Thank you, Your Honor, MP, I think in this one common response, I touched and answered your question on two occasions. To prevent corruption, which entrepreneurs believe is within the inspectorate. I don't think, nor do I want any legislative framework, to get any thought about creating corruption. On the contrary, this modality, the functioning of the inspectorate, that percentage, if there is any corruption at all, we want to minimise it. Whether at some point, when the inspectorate brings together in its full volume, we will have the opportunity to have all those systematic jobs, and which is yet to expect the adoption of a regulation on the interior structure of the ministry, to be able to capitulate with good and quality people, whether through the budget, as well as to be civil servants, to provide adequate wages for us to have all these jobs filled out, precisely with intent and to do this law, to make it happen. On the ground itself, in the organisational structure, we get quality and reliable people we're sure of, that through entrepreneurs, they're not going to do this opposite effect, they're going to get what this whole law is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99021	Thank you. And the last line, colleague Chikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99022	Dear Minister, I must ask you on behalf of all entrepreneurs who operate in the Republic of Croatia, to record not such good places on the lists of global competitiveness. One of these reasons is certainly the administrative burden faced by entrepreneurs, and in this regard we had, as well as colleagues, comments regarding corruption and mistreatment in certain cases, will you, in this way, launch inter-resorship cooperation with the Ministry of Administration and launch an e-platform project, means e-commerce worth 45 million kn in order to provide a platform on which services will develop and through this way be enabled to communicate with entrepreneurs, reduce administrative procedures and unite certain solutions, means through the centre of shared services to which the inspector means then, but also the entrepreneur will have insight. Entrepreneurs expect it from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99023	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99024	Dear Parliamentarian, thank you for this question. So if parliamentary representatives remember me for anything in these last two months, it's by introducing modality into a variety of spheres, and primarily in this economic sector. You are aware that a few weeks ago in the second reading we went through the Law on the Obligation of Receipts and Account Publishing, at this point we are networking 6 institutions with a desire to start a business, so we do not form a business... but we start business, so we open a business account in a business bank only by filling in an electronic form. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2019, we also announce as a year of digital transformation, and one of the segments of the Inspector's life I am sure that as well as the service will appear e service within which there will be not only communication with entrepreneurs because such communication through both chamber systems, i.e. other economic associations, we already have an opportunity, but the story about how it will be possible to proceed through the appeal procedure in the public procurement system and... other services entrepreneurs through e-business to include in this large cloud that we call digitization, it is a wish for all of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99025	Thank you. We continue on behalf of the club of representatives, the next colleague is Ivan Shuker, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99026	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing a law that regulates the work of an extremely repressive body, and when you look at Article 3 you will see that this repressive, this body is very much daily working on the quality of our lifestyle. And if we looked at it that way, not from situation to situation, then maybe we'd talk about state inspectorate differently and talk about this law differently. So what's the key to that body? The key is to control the application of the law that we make in this high house. That would be the simplest definition of what they have to do. Also, it controls, regardless of the concession law, the use of natural resources of the Republic of Croatia, because in the end, if you look at a mining inspection, then you will see that it is very important. And if we were to discuss it this way, then probably our debate would go in a different direction, because there are a lot of people in this House who are very much committed to some jobs from their professional lives, and with their experience, they can even make a qualitative contribution to the debate on this law. However, I simply cannot say some things on behalf of the HDZ Club at first, and I would like to be able to listen to the debates from the end of 2013 when the state inspectorate was abolished. And I wish today that this bill had a single assessment of why it is going to the establishment of a state inspectorate, and why? Except that it's our... in the future, if we don't remove one administrative institution just because someone before us did, but then I said it to this Assembly speaker and I'm going to say it again, just every minister wanted to be the boss in his portfolio, and that's why he pulled an inspection on himself and that's what's illogical. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I will immediately look back at what counterpart Mrak Taritaš and counterpart Bačić said as former leaders of the Ministry of Construction, it is illogical that the construction inspection is cut. Say that they will only control those building permits that they have brought or issued or whatever you want the Ministry of Construction is practically a pure conflict of interest. Well, it would be more logical if it controlled a body outside. So the body has been abolished, they've been established practically, only these people have been translated into ministries, and today we have a five-year situation that we have. It would be logical for us to upgrade this body and to talk about something far more important to me today when we talk about this law. And this is because of the constant change in legislation, because of the harmonisation with the EU directive, because of the high education of those who implement these laws, which they control, so we should talk about it today and when the state budget is being adopted on the education and equipping of those people doing the job. It is the key to their success, it is the key to their independence, it is the key to their separation from corruption or anything, it is the key to their quality work with which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be satisfied. Today a colleague here said the inspection could enter a home, and if we were to discuss tourist activity then there would be a number of those who say the inspections can't come to control anyone who doesn't have a registered activity. You see how contradictory we are to ourselves. That's why I'm saying Article 3 might be the most important thing when we're talking about a state inspectorate. He's telling us what these people need to do. And you'll see today you go to the store, and you'll see how much of that work they have to do, you move around in your place, you'll see how much of that work they're supposed to do. And in this way, if we are discussing this inspection, if not every minister like it was in 2013 tended to make his own empire and he is the boss, then we will pass a good law that is likely to suffer certain changes and changes due to all the changes. And that's why, in my opinion, with these technical provisions, what an inspector needs to do and meet, two articles are very important to me. I have already mentioned one, and this is Article 25(1), which regulates that construction inspection, I say, is unclear to me why, and Article 29, I must say that the Ministry should consider the structure, the definition of the district offices, because once the Zagreb area office, practically pooled the work of the inspectors who covered these five, six, seven counties around the city of Zagreb, so somewhere else the area office covered one or two counties, and I think it should simply be defined by this law on the establishment of a state inspectorate. This must be legally defined. Simply in law written, not by any regulation, not by any regulation. Why? Well, because each of you here comes from a certain area and logically, here, a colleague of Jurič's spoke in her replica about market inspection problems, and logically, colleagues from that coastal section will talk about this segment that you will-not, it will sting your eyes. There's a lot of people who are illegally renting. They can't even get an inspection, they can't get this one or that one and the logical thing that they want to know how that inspectorate is going to be set up and where this area office is going to be, where these citizens will be able to complain. Because sometimes, if we're not mistaken in the old State Inspectorate Act, I think it was defined immediately at the beginning of the Law, I think it was Article 8 or Article 9 that defined the structure. Once we define the structure, then we can easily define other things. One more thing in this article 29 seems illogical to me, which is that the Chief State Inspector is appointed for 5 years and his deputy for 4 years. That doesn't make any sense to me. Why? If he suggests, appoints his deputy, then it's logical that his term lasts for four years, and why five years? So I think that we all here, more or less, have agreed that five years is something that gently eliminates this political definition, this, that someone be appointed by a political key, because if we have a four-year term of one summons the Parliament, or one government, if you appoint someone to five years, then it's logical that he is already in charge of another government. I sincerely hope that it won't happen, if we do, as it happened in 2012, when it was said, we took responsibility, so all the directors were slowly mixed with a broom, as if you were watching a man clean the road after some kind of party. What this Law wants the Government to achieve is independence and independence and professionalism of state bodies. And that's probably what every one of us in this House in the depths of the soul wants, a highly professionalized and quality state administration, regardless of political moments. And I think this state inspectorate and this law is going to do just that. And when I talk about this law of independence, about independence about professionality, then it simply needs to be put in the skin of people who, which this law defines what they will and how they will do and people who will control all these laws that we bring here, bring or adopt in this high house, which are inspectors of the State Inspectorate. So let's not fail very often when inspectors determine certain irregularities then someone has the power and places that someone has bullied him like this and so on, simply the state bodies do their job and they have to enable that independence, but they also have to be sanctioned and some abuse of position. It's two things that don't go without each other. So, colleagues and colleagues, the State Inspectorate is something that was set up in this country 19 years ago, and then it was abolished for this or that reason, now we reorganize it, I hope sincerely with the desire to form a body that will primarily work on the well-being of Croatian citizens and on the well-being of entrepreneurs and what, when we talk about the repressivity of this body, should say that these bodies must be highly educational. Unfortunately, many of our entrepreneurs are still not so electronically described, and so much information unfortunately does not come to them, inspectors can evaluate, evaluate when someone has done something with intent to cheat, to use something, and when someone has done something simply out of ignorance of the law. And there's this educational obligation of inspectors that they have to work for. They simply have to recognize it on the ground, and in such a way they will raise their reputation. The easiest to punish, the easiest way to get on the ground, to find out, is not according to that and that article of the law, the poof so much mandate and goodbye. It's the easiest thing to do. But if we want to achieve quality, then we have to do education. And if we're going to do education, then we need to digitize the administration, and then we need to finally start using the OIB, in its original form, as it has been brought, because through the OIB, the state inspectorate under the precisely prescribed protocol can withdraw all information about the entrepreneur who controls and gets a clear picture of him when he comes to the field, where he comes and what comes to control. Because far better and better quality inspection is when the inspector comes to the field, prepared and educated to whom he comes to the field. Then it's quality surveillance, and then you can do the right things, and also, if you don't have any information in the complete state administration system of Croatia, and you come to someone in control, you see that there's some kind of activity going on there, so it's a clear signal to you that it's a gray economy zone. And that's where we don't have to be smart, wise, and say this one came to me, do this to me and that. If in the Tax Administration, if in the Construction Office, if what I know in the State, this, where concessions, so there's no information about it he's dealing with any kind of activity that's related to it, then the logical thing is that he's in the gray zone. And that's what the repressive apparatus must use. In the end, the OIB was introduced and that all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia first and foremost, who are on the ground, are given information to whom and why they are in control. So, Mr. Minister, with some remarks that we, in the name of the HDZ club, have said and what some other colleagues have said in their discussions, I think that this law should be found as soon as possible in another reading because we don't have much left until 15.12 because, with this amendment, we're going to have to change another 60 laws where we're going to have to put into one sentence or two words that these jobs are done by the State Inspectorate because we simply can't do it until this law is passed. I hope that by then you will also pass that law when the Government appoints a leader he must bring a series of acts, regulations and regulations so that the State Inspectorate can function. However, what is very important to me, Mr. Minister, is that the government defines by law where these regional offices will be and which areas they cover. Because if we don't define it by law, if it is a minister, in fact, the head of the district office determines some regulations and some rules that story will stretch out and we will have one vacuum space of 3.4 months and don't give God and more and the State Inspectorate if it wants to do well first and foremost the tourist season, then it's almost time for people to prepare themselves in the first, second month. So the HDZ Club, along with some of these remarks, will support this bill in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99027	Thank you. The next representative on behalf of GLAS and HSU's club is counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99028	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will traditionally begin this debate on the State Inspectorate Act in the first reading. So we don't have much chance of ministers coming to the House, so here comes Minister Horvat, and it's good that he's here because it shows that somehow he's behind this law. When a law comes like this, then it always has to, somehow I'm thinking whether I agree with it or not at the GLAS and HSU club, which is the point and what's the goal. I was sitting in the same room, I was doing the same job, I had a work book that was gone, I had three changes in my work book because in those six years the name of the ministry changed three times, my job name changed, I was sitting in the same room. What exactly am I trying to tell you? This amendment is on the one hand an amendment with the desire to have the State Inspectorate but on the other hand, the passing of this law is only the top. A series of laws need to be passed, so inspectors can work, changes will happen again, not just tables, not just header papers, but there will be new jobs and new things, and you have to be prepared for that. It's one serious job if we want the inspection to work. So we had the State Inspectorate then we divided those inspectors, the inspectorate, so they went to the ministries and now we're going back to the State Inspectorate. It's me thinking 58 laws if I counted them all well that need to be changed and you have to be ready for a series of things from people, from those cars because these cars are the most important, from the place and from everything else. So from this law goes one serious job. Now it's business. We need to know what we want. If we want to have in one place inspections that are related to one subject, no matter what, it makes sense in the end. If we want to have trade-related inspections, which are related to hospitality and tourism, which are related to services, which are related to consumer health, this makes sense and can be. We all see the inspection as someone who comes out and punishes. It's just not good. That's step two or three. In the first step inspection must come, have the possibility of warning. That's why everyone has options and mistakes. No matter what someone makes a mistake, someone makes a mistake because they had no idea he was wrong at all. So what's important is we need to know what we want with that inspection. I have to say, there I always give examples of my own life, I was a young engineer, I was just starting to work, I was in this, at a big construction site and there was a building inspector, those who knew for a long time who was a building inspector who was afraid and blinking in these places, he came, so the theme of whether he was working according to permission or not, was not the foundation, it didn't occur to me that someone was working against permission, he had controlled... And he controlled the quality of the works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And after that he wrote the record, said what to do, and said when you need to call. Today, when anyone needs anything, they don't call the inspector or by any chance. We need to turn the inspection into that. We need to turn the inspection into someone who follows regulations, who knows the rules, who can act advisoryly, who can when he goes out on the ground really and in that way and act. And if someone when they say something needs to be done goes to call the inspector and asks, listen to me they said it would, if it were consistent with something. Then that inspection will make sense. This is the kind of inspection everyone's been experiencing with repressiveness and saying, "Don't do it." On the other hand, it's already opened here in the debate, and I have to mention it in a country where so many people leave the country, who don't even try to work in that country, the ministers and you and we all together are aware that it's very hard to get quality people to do a job because the work of inspectors in this country, I really, really, we often tie the inspection to corruption, we tie the inspection to something that isn't, I'm really not going to say it from this pay phone. Being an inspector isn't easy. First of all, you have to have great and broad knowledge, not only in that small segment of yours, but in everything else, that's the first thing. So you must also have expertise, you must also have administrative knowledge, that's the first thing, the second thing, when you come anywhere, each of you will turn your head. And as a third thing, you definitely have to blame someone, there's no one else. So it's something to take care of. And some other countries, I mean you always ask someone who's better than you. Ask someone who's been through it and then they can't adequately pay their inspectors, but they give some other benefits, in terms of resolving housing issues, in terms of health insurance, then there's some other benefits, so that's to be solved and that's to be done. So I have to admit that in one part where you're all the inspectors who bond, that's why I was deliberately talking about this 4 or 5 chapters makes sense and there are these 17 inspections. However, copy paste is a very awkward thing. When you do that to me once, when we did projects in my day, then you had tape and scissors, you cut out, so you copied, today it's a copy paste. So please, I'll warn you of 2-3 things. One thing is when it comes to the area of control of hydrocarbons and thermal waters. Look at Art. Article 17 19th and 21st. The court says that these inspectors have control over these waters, and in fact, there's only one, so just read it a little bit, and you see a little of it together. And I'm especially warning you about the article. In 68, or 69, it's your administrative procedure, I'm telling you something that we've been through. So the inspection, the construction, is still and has been at the construction ministry, as it will be, we'll see for the second reading and then they have, therefore, the inspection has both a first degree and a second degree procedure. In the first degree, it is a solution, with something in the second step, and it was also a solution, which was a terrible problem, related to the administrative procedure, which we had to explain in particular, how one body delivers a solution in both the first and the second degree, especially it had to be explained. You now, the entire inspection, so you have defined through art. 68. The 69th pretty you, here's the best I'm warning you to put it together in a way that doesn't turn out to be in Management when there's a administrative dispute, it's all going down because of a different procedure that, that was a problem, try to solve it. And now, of course, I'm going to be here for the end, and then I'm going to do it in an individual debate when it comes to building inspection. One country, which wants to be a country, and when it comes to buildings or buildings, must be decided in the following way. First of all... Decision regarding licences, part of the job requires the authorisation procedure to be reduced in the simplest way possible, so that people can get a permit immediately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today you have a rule on simple structures and simple works, where you have to have a major project, report the beginning of the works behind it to result in a administrative permit, therefore, the simplest possible way. He's got to have a building inspection coming out. I have to say, in my working century, in another state, they were scouts that were a medium expert cookup, they went around the field, at the end of the day they came and said, in the street to that and that, here and there, we saw cement, gravel and everything else. If they have permission, they have permission, so we don't go out there, they don't have permission, the other day the building inspector went out, he said, he gave a deadline where someone has to get the license and stop the work... So in the country you have to have the permits that you can quickly get and you have to have an inspection that comes out, because once the house is built, it first devastated the space, secondly, you're going to tear down the house where people are already inside, where they're already using it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's the picture, which is the wrong picture of the country, the job and everything else. So if you want a major state inspectorate for me at GLAS and HSU, we won't support this law in the first reading because it's not acceptable to us in this way, but if you want a big inspectorate then you have to define which jobs it is. If you want a construction inspection, in this great inspectorate, then there must be all the construction inspection and if you want to tie jobs, then there must be an environmental protection inspection and an inspection that is responsible for the maritime good, but not in relation to concessions, but in relation to construction in the maritime good. A large amount of illegal construction at this time in Croatia, which is on the maritime good. All those who are chiefs or mayors along the areas of the municipalities and cities by the sea, you know that they are all requests, that all those bonds, that it is all illegal, are our marinas. So we have marinas that still don't have the necessary clearance. The building inspector is there in terms of approval, but there is also an inspector from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, in terms of some other things. What I'm really saying is, you have a Parliament, on the Parliament building, which is a protected facility, someone remembered, not from the Parliament, but someone to build something a little worse, there in an Atrium on the 4th floor. You're gonna call in some inspection, construction? Maybe it could be some object of importance to the state. It's not. You'll call the state inspectorate. Then he'll say, look, I don't have what, first let the inspector go for the protection of cultural heritage, then he'll call the Department of Civil Engineering there 4 or 5 even though it's not 4 or 5, and I'll touch it in an individual debate, then he'll call the inspector at the Ministry who's in charge of the protection of cultural heritage, then one day the other day, the third day the third and those who smoke will watch something grow and they'll be surprised, it's not the meaning of the inspection. So you want a construction inspection in that great inspectorate, then there must be all the inspections that are in charge of and which are in the construction process, or if you have left an inspection of the protection of cultural heritage, if you have left an inspection of maritime, transport, infrastructure, then leave the inspection in charge or inspection of construction in the Ministry of Construction. Now more, look at the provision, I think give an article 199, you'll see well here, I didn't exactly write it down, so what I said in the replica, you have facilities that issue the ministry, the permits are if it goes from the area of two or more counties. And you can have the most ordinary lighting cable that goes into Zagreb County and the city of Zagreb, I must tell you that such cases are terribly large because Zagreb County is surrounded by the city of Zagreb and it is difficult to divide there, the jurisdiction of the ministry. The ministry transferred jurisdiction to the city of Zagreb to issue a license for its part, Zagreb County for its part and someone in the yard went cable and it called inspection van. He will call the ministry's inspection, then the ministry's inspection will call the State Inspectorate. If you thought of a guide as it was for trade, as it was for hospitality and tourism, to be in the same place as the inspections in charge of that resort, then the thought of a guide must be for construction to be in the same place and everything that is related to it does not make sense. Believe me, there's no point, the mess that's happening to construction inspectors is too little, you can't even get them, I've set an example for your assistant on the board, and I said, say, in Međimurje County, for the whole of Međimurje County, you have a letter and a number of inspectors, you won't get the result, I have to admit that whoever's going to be at the head of the State Inspectorate will tell you a few times why you're sitting down and allowed the building inspection to be there, that's really one serious problem, a problem that's been solved for years. And the relationship between the individual inspections and the communal inspectors or the directors, I'm going to be in each individual and I'm going to be a little bit more about the construction inspection. So what's the appeal, if you've decided to have in the inspectorate with all this and all the problems with construction, then keep everything in the same place.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99029	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Following on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Clubs, counterpart Branko Hrg, here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99030	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. Our club HDS, HSLS, HDSSB will support this law in the first reading but of course we have some remarks and suggestions on the proposed law. First and foremost, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to put all inspection services under one cap, in one pyramid, so these inspections would cooperate to work together in the same methods, in the same way, in the same procedures and in all parts of Croatia. Because often by talking to people, meaning craftsmen, entrepreneurs, those who are exposed to inspections, we hear different experiences and really create an impression that Croatia is not the same state, that the laws do not apply the same in all parts of the Republic and the good part is due to the formation of the inspections themselves. What has been done, which has already been said here quite a few years ago when the inspectorate was abolished, when it started with this kind of structure and when the inspections were returned to every ministry of its inspection, it reverses this process and has made a big mess in Croatia. I often know how to talk to people and think about it later and I really don't feel normal, we in Croatia have a situation that when someone registers crafts or a company, at the same time he gets caught up in the back of an inspection. He doesn't even know what it is. They're coming in the pits. Every single one of them, every one of them. I'm afraid when I come to the hair salon if it was an inspection that day that hairdresser wouldn't cut my ear off because she was shaking after that. I found it funny when a construction inspector walks under an elevator to take off a roof that takes down a tractor trailer, besides, 20 meters away is a board where a craftsman works on another construction facility, you know who the inspector's coming to? Not to one who has no board outside, not to one who is not registered, comes to him who is registered and writes a report to him. This happens all the time in Croatia. These people say, "I'd better shut down the crafts, shut down the company, and work on black because then nobody's touching me." I had a situation when a man opened up a restaurant, all these people were at the opening of technical publications and technical conditions, and in the third day he got his inspection, fined him with 2,000 kn because he didn't have a label that was forbidden to smoke in the kitchen. And he had stickers all over the restaurant, so he wouldn't smoke in there. And three days ago, four of them were the same person in that restaurant. It's our inspection structure, that's how it works. I asked the other day at the hair salon how many inspections are coming into that salon. Mrs. Four, Five told me. Even customs is coming. In a hair salon, where one person works, she's self-employed. It is now said here that the intensity of this Law is to reduce such repression, such pressure, to reduce punishment, to simply guide people, to warn them to show them irregularities, and it must be within the law, and I welcome it. Because today, a small businessman, a craftsman, can't read all the laws that we make to follow the law at all, he's not guilty at all. Because he can't follow it, he has to have a legal service that will follow it, read it in order to monitor what changes these are in laws. And I expect the state inspectorate to put things together in that one pyramid, to clear things up, to start working in a normal way, like people wouldn't live in that fear that they're definitely exposed to every day. Especially the kid. 'Cause they're big, they're good. I had a situation with a construction inspection, where as head of local self-government I had complaints about building buildings along the state road, that there were no tables, that there were no registered contractors, why the inspection didn't work. We referred it as a local self-government memo to the inspection. You know what answer I got? Let's give the home number and address where it's happening. There's no home number building, and the best thing is, the inspector drives along with it every day, with a job and a job. These are our inspections, and at the same time he comes to that kid and he's run over. Hit him, too. He cuts it out, he massacres it, and this guy gives it up. People, of course, lose their will, close the store, shut down the crafts, shut down the company, pack their bags and leave. And that's another one of those segments why people are leaving us. And that's one little segment of it all. Why isn't there an entrepreneurship climate? Why don't people open it? Well, they won't, with what they open, here they are. They show up here. So the State Inspectorate will have to first do a good education, train all the inspectors and teach them how to behave, teach them to be there to point people to a problem, if someone breaks the law continuously, if they don't respect the law, if he works on black that he's not registered, let's punish it, let's punish it, but let's not kill those who registered. We help them, we help them, because I repeat, we make so many laws that people can't follow. I just can't. There must be no inspection outside the State Inspectorate system. If it's the State Inspectorate, then let it be an inspectorate and have all the inspection services in it, without any sacred cows. We don't need sacred cows here, we set up this system properly and let it work, we'll know who's responsible, we'll know who we need to ask if the inspectors don't behave properly on the ground, if they don't behave properly to those who need to be monitored, and we'll ask the Chief Inspector, and he'll handle these things. And as it is now, you don't even know who you need to ask, who's in charge, who's in charge, who's in charge, nobody knows that in Croatia. Of course you're lost. You don't even have anyone to complain to. So I think that these things, there have already been talks in previous discussions and replicas, should certainly be made that change and there must be no exceptions. If we do the State Inspectorate, let it be the State Inspectorate, let all inspection services be in it. And let them function according to the same model, according to the same principle. In this law you should always look, and in every law you should see even developments in Croatia. This Regulation shall enter It determines the inspection structure. That's where the stations and branches are mentioned. I would like it to be stated very clearly in the law, that we know the complete structure, that we also see, that one policy of even development is present here and in this segment. To know where the branches will be, where there will be outposts, that we have it clearly and loudly stated, this always leaves the possibility, you know how it goes, some political option is in power, and then somewhere on a local level, it's not such a political option, so to see the cancellations. Here I am looking at a colleague of Lackovic from his Đurđevac county, I am from the Križevci, and we were two witnesses at a time when in these cities the unfavorables were abolished and moved to other cities, for no reason whatsoever. Because I guess we weren't alike at that point in political, national-level furniture. This can be avoided if such things are put very clearly into the law, if that is clearly defined by the Law, then we have a very clear complete picture. I'm not saying I'm asking, to insist on it, but here's just one suggestion, one suggestion that it might be good to do something like that and send a message very clearly, to make one such picture one such scheme. So I have nothing else to say, in the end, with what I have stated in these problems that we are facing that we expect the law to still be improved until the second reading, that it defines really all inspection services, that the matter should be arranged equally, that it should be the same for the caterer in my Križevci and for the guests in Dubrovnik. And now it's not like that. It's just not like that, it's not working the same way, it's going to be the same for that little construction craftsman and the big construction company because it's not now and it's not. Of course these councils are easier, they have legal services, they have professions, they have people who follow laws. I repeat, often people simply can't read all the things that we say here and get into trouble, get into a breach not because they wanted to do it, not because they intended to, but because they simply failed to follow it, they failed to follow the changes of the law, and to pass the laws, and to read everything that these laws require them to do. Especially in this part when a bunch of inspectors come, a bunch of inspections that come each for themselves. I expect that once again the State Inspectorate is formed that the inspections will coordinate you with each other so that they won't come every week or every month one inspection but that once in a year, two, three, five years it will come to some small entrepreneur, comb him, so if he did commit a violation, if I don't know some great things, let him punish him. What on earth are they supposed to come to him every day and every month, five times a year? For what? What do they come for all the time? I don't see any reason. Come once and let it be in three, four, five years, especially for those who have started working, especially those who have just opened a company or crafts. So let's let them work for a couple of years. We let them work for a couple of years, then we go to them, then we go see what they've done and how they've done. So with these specific suggestions and what has already been said by other clubs, we as a club will vote for the proposal of this law but we expect to improve and put all inspections under the same hat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99031	We're continuing our presentation on behalf of the MPs' club. Next is counterpart Rezimir Varda, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party's club, Reformist and Independent Representatives. And he'll share his exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99032	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be brief so I don't repeat myself. And that part of the explanation for the need to pass laws and not to repeat the debate of my fellow Shucker, and also a large part of the debate of counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash, there's no need, we actually agreed here. We first agreed that this present fragmentation of inspection services in the last 5 years since our colleague Jordan was removed from the post of chief state inspector led to this situation that we must review the existing legal framework and, if necessary, to highlight all inspection services under one hat, all inspection services under one hat. And in particular, I would just look at one small piece of article 25 relating to the construction inspection, we as a club will in any case support the adoption of this law in the first reading, but I think you need to seriously consider that this construction inspection goes under one hat because it must, the inspection must control the application of the law. The laws prepare the ministry, the government proposes to parliament, we adopt them. Then, if the ministry only controls itself as the law applies then counterpart Shucker is absolutely right when he says a very clear conflict of interest. It is a conflict of interest. But because of these conflicts of interest not only in construction, in recent years we have come into this situation that we have to change the legal framework because there have been overlaps, because it no longer knew who is responsible. And then we brought normal, especially legal economic operators into question which here is what our colleague Hrg was talking about. What I'm particularly interested in, we're talking about sanitary inspection, border inspection, we're talking wine inspection, and I asked the board that question, and I didn't get an answer. I know wine is a food product, I get that, but I don't know, I'm not sure it's food. And then we have a border inspection saying it controls food imports and controls the import of water for human use. So water, other drinks I don't know. In the wine inspection we have actually what controls I would say on the domestic market according to the Wine Act. And I'm interested in why only water if I can't get a single answer that in border inspection, that's when it comes to food and food products wine. I ask for a decidated answer because all the data on the import of wine, wine production in Croatia and the amount of hectares per vineyards tell us something completely different, that there is uncontrollable imports, that we imported over 30 million liters of wine and that we halved our production. I would like to ask a guessed answer whether under food, so when the border inspection controls the import of food and, in particular, the import of water is mentioned, whether or not imports of all other beverages and, in particular, wines are included. So as I said, the club will support this in the first reading with these remarks that will certainly have a major impact on our final position in adopting a final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99033	Thank you, too. We continue on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, a colleague of Milorad Batinić, please welcome a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99034	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers and associates, as regards the bill's proposal, have been told a lot and, in principle, more or less, I think it's a consensus in the reorganisation itself, so to speak of unification under one drop of the state inspectorate except for the exceptions that I believe the government has assessed, which I don't think we will have any objections in that part. Namely, what corners. could be read as an affirmative criticism in this law, it is that practice that inspectors or we have divided individuals of experience based on the way inspectors and inspectors act and operate on the ground. What is certainly to be commended, I say from scratch, that this part as regards taking, certain measures, whether they are infringing, first of all, concerns the infringements and application of the principle of opportunity, in the sense that it is not immediately going on penalization, but that it is trying and educationally, so to speak, affecting the offenders, unless it is about... But before he goes on about some details, he'd just like to introduce himself, so who is, who are the inspectors of the state's future inspectorate? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, here's an article, I'll just read it, which was taken out of one analysis, I think it's a labour ministry, a labour inspector and say Zagreb, so the inspector in the field of working relations, protection at work, if he's single and living in Zagreb works for a salary of 5500 kn net. Average salary in Croatia, fresh data net 6206 kn. Now, I'm going to go to the part where some insights are described which inspector has to satisfy and whether it's independent of whether or not it's an initial inspector who has that 5500 net salary. So a high-level expert prepares, passed a state-of-the-art exam for an inspector, knowing a series of regulations that he could even pass a reception, to be accepted, means he knows the Constitution, the drawing, a series of laws that we're making here in the Parliament. So, in particular, some other things, other laws, a legislative framework, which, in some ways, entangles the area of its action on the ground. So first of all, we have to, I'd like to do it the way I started, draw attention to what we're talking about, because in many times we're critical, we're not, I don't think I haven't noticed or heard anything, that he was talking about the bribery of the inspector's supervision. And they are in the field, whether they want to admit it to me or not, who are responsible for implementing the great number of laws passed by the Parliament. They are in some way the first face of the state against their citizens, in the protection of their rights, not just respect for the law. But also respect for the laws and rights of citizens. My colleagues and colleagues average salary in RH 6200 kn net, average salary inspector, beginner with year, two internships 5500 kn. I would ask the answer to that question whether any of you know and namely, the article goes on, the data, we can't fill the inspector's jobs, no one will want to report to the competition, especially now in this era, what happened in the last year and a half days, not leaving, but simply the economy needs quality highly educated personnel. And of course... They went to work there for a bigger salary. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear Ministers, this is the only objection I have, of course, that the law cannot regulate, these are other laws, but I believe you will pass this debate on to this part, and I would like it to be pointed out to the government when sublegal acts, rules, coefficients, etc. Of course, many will now resist and say it needs public administration reform, of course it should. Whether, I will repeat, not only the inspectors, but a large number of public officials have been paid, not since yesterday, back a series of years, and we expect efficiency and greater efficiency, which should be the goal. But I'm going to go a little bit and content, when it comes to internal structure and governance, of course you have to set up a pyramid to see. Where you start and where the story ends. The district offices, meaning the central office, the district offices of the facility lack ministers, according to us, in the CNS, even though it says it will be regulated, it would be good for us to know exactly where it will be, the area administration, the area offices, and also the facilities for certain areas, so that jurisdiction can be seen. Furthermore, there have been a lot of questions, perhaps misunderstanding or targeted, the chief inspector appoints a government. You've responded very well to the Secretary of State's rank by logic of things, but the State Inspector is responsible to the government, just like his deputy, and I don't see any doubt about why it wouldn't be the Government. Similarly in the work, the descriptive work when spoken, there were criticisms about the construction inspection related very clearly to which work of the construction inspection is being kept at the Ministry of Construction, I think some other resolutions were numbered. It means those construction facilities where the permit is issued exclusively by the Ministry. I don't see why there'd be a conflict here, but I'm just assuming that when the government made that proposal, that she had a very valid reason why she suggested it. And we try to remember the Construction Act when it comes to issuing building permits, which permits for which buildings, projects are issued by the Ministry of Construction. I think we'll all be more or less clear then. When we're talking about the detour, I'm going to briefly look back at the functioning of certain ministries, so I'd like a clear one brief clarification, just let me, namely, it's a hunting and forestry inspection, an area I've spent a long time in my business life, so I'd like a clear explanation, here's a chapter forest inspector, article 39 means a senior forest inspector, and then we have jobs of a higher forest inspector, etc. It must have, as a list of conditions, a state exam for a forest inspector, but point 3 of the forest inspector's affairs, except for all these conditions a little less years of internship, says the State's examination for a hunting inspector. Until the Chief Inspector under points 1 and 2 are required to have that. Well, it's clear to me why the more rankings don't need to have, and the lower-ranking inspector, who'll probably be in, is not in the area, but even in the outpost has to have a hunting inspector? Is it possible that it was accidentally dropped or something was accidentally added to this? I don't think it was accidentally added. For what reason? Because in forestry we have a college of hunting and we are authorized and a number of colleagues so far who are graduate forest engineers or masters of forestry are hunting inspectors, along with a forest inspector. Well, I'm saying here's a clear observation that I'm not now entering the grounds, whether it's missed, but I'm also supposed to have a national inspection exam for a hunting inspector because I can also conduct surveillance as a forest inspector and as a surveillance officer. Whether it is surveillance in private forests or whether it is surveillance in the state forests which are managed by public undertakings. Because let's not ignore one thing in this work, it's hard to describe and write it all down, but practice speaks, except for the integrated management of the entire eco system, we can't separate the forest from the game or game from the forest. I'm saying here, just as I know it from a series of inspection controls that I've been doing since the start of work in forestry to the function of the forest manager in subjection and, of course, experienced. There's one more thing, which may be hard to do right now, and it's only about, believe me, it's about what I said first when I talked about wages, about the bribery of the inspector. It's very difficult to control, I'm going to give an example from my practice, take an inspector under point 3, so a forest inspector who has a salary of 5500 kuna to control a revirar the same fellow graduate forestry engineer who has a higher salary than he does. Not to tell the manager of the forest, the manager of the forest management or to come to the control of the general director of the Croatian forests, or the president of the administration that has paid me, I don't know what. Try to put yourself in this relationship, though it does not have to be a standard of conduct and must not be, but in what position is this state inspector in charge? And I believe it's similar, and in all other brands, especially when it comes to the public sector, the private sector is something else. So I say, try to do this in a way, let's say that we do, but certainly if we want these laws that the Croatian Parliament makes, we, if we want to control their implementation, are all in the role of the citizens of the Republic, in protecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, not to list a series of laws, if we want to prevent irregularities, let's find models, find a way, means either the master's of science, the master's or the graduate engineers, highly educated when with a minimum of 3 to 5, 6 years of internships, it is prescribed that it can be moved up to 30 days further and on working conditions, on those exposures which the inspectors in their supervision or have experienced, which they will not experience. Let's go through the salary at least to be some satisfaction, to be their incentive to accept this very responsible job that's not easy to do. Here's the minister, this is briefly, the HNS club will support in the first reading, and I believe that, although there have been plenty of quality discussions, a lot of proposals, this is a technical law, and I don't think there should be any major dilemmas about not accepting it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99035	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next is counterpart Boris Milosevic on behalf of SDSS's Club of Representatives, please welcome fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99036	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates. In my presentation I will try to be so critical, but constructively critical and most focused not so much on the work of the inspector, as actually on the very system as it is set up and essentially based on what is actually how it works. Because citizens, regardless of the organisation of inspections, whether it was a single body scattered in some other bodies, citizens don't recognize it, mostly citizens are experiencing inspections as one repressive body and not so long ago, I read in the paper a short, one small title, commentary of an entrepreneur on inspections, who said, ever since I opened the drive, I feel like a mobster, I keep getting some inspections, it seems to me that every ministry has some kind of inspection and that none of them are connected to the other. I join my colleagues in the appeal that inspections must be primarily user-friendly and I think and believe that the minister is also thinking in that direction, that inspections must primarily be educational, user-friendly, warning and only then actually, repressive. The inspection is important because it exercises control over how laws are implemented, because time and best legal solutions if they are not implemented in practice, and effective supervision is necessary for implementation. We, by proposing this Law, create a new, or actually renovate an old body after five years, which takes over from as many as eight ministries and unites as 17 inspections. It's basically more of an inspection than the old State Inspectorate who was disbanded five years ago. In the assessment of the situation of this legal text, it is concluded that there is a fragmentation in the conduct of inspection tasks which has actually led to the need to review the existing legal model and to the need for a new regulation. I would agree with that finding, but not only is the inspection fragmented, nor do I think that this law will resolve this fragmentation. At one point I had the exact numbers, now they're gone, but at one point I'm just actually trying to paint the fragmentation of state bodies, so the central authorities of the state administration, the Ministry, the central government, the state administrations had thousands of eighty-nine district units on the ground, and outposts, the central authorities of the state administrations, so 1389. Of these, about 90 were in Zagreb, and the rest were out of Zagreb. When we add to this the offices of the state administration that are state administration's first-degree authorities had another 89 outposts, plus over 300 parent offices and now we're setting up a new central body of state administration, a state inspectorate that will also have an undefined number of regional units and outposts for the time being. This is confusing for citizens and this creates this fragmentation, because I think we should go to the fact that the central authorities of the state administration have no outposts or district units or outposts at all. This confuses citizens because very often on buildings institutions are actually changing panels or mostly adding panels. The records are changing, the names of the institutions are changing, the panels are building up, I thought I'd bring you a photo, purely illustrative to see what the number is essentially a panel on some buildings. In fact, it also creates confusion among entrepreneurs and citizens, and some institutions do not manage. Someone earlier in the debate said that ministers wanted to be bosses in their portfolio, and that's true, but it's natural for me, and that's why the ministers and the ministries and they took over and grabbed the inspections of the deformed state inspectorate, and that was the problem when the state inspectorate was disbanded five years ago, which is why this reform wasn't brought to an end, which wasn't the inspections transferred to state administration's first-degree offices, because government offices are the first-degree state administration bodies to deal with administrative matters in the first degree and that actually carry out inspections in the first degree. It's a fundamental principle that's been defined by the State Administration System Act for centuries, and we have a situation actually at one point, I don't have accurate data now, but I don't think it's changed much, that only two inspections are so organized and almost 60 inspections of others that exist are nested, anchored in the central authorities of the state administration. So we have a rule that is not respected, which provides for an exception, and in fact that exception is overrun by that rule. And that's how it's been working for years. To that end, he would have apostrophe of a provision in this Act, which I ask the Minister to consider and someone has said before from me in the debate that this solution may not be the best and concerns the settlement of administrative matters in the first degree, i.e. state inspectors, who in the district units will solve in the first degree, issue solutions, complaints about those solutions, complaints about those solutions will be solved by a set-up unit in the headquarters, in the central body, here in the seat, actually, when it is looked outside, in fact the same body solves both in the first degree and in the complaint. This, in all ministries, and these inspections that are being taken, has tried to avoid in a way that the minister appoints the committees, I think that this is not a good solution either, but I say it involves a deeper reform which should, unfortunately, become a permanent solution in many institutions, and therefore I think for the reasons of two-stage resolution, that the only permanent solution is to transfer first-degree inspections to the public administration offices, but I say it involves a deeper reform that should actually be carried out by all the central authorities of the state administration, all ministries, but in fact we cannot decide on that step because then we would have the right reform of the public administration, which is to clearly define the competences of the ministries, central state offices and state administrations, that they are doing core business, that they are not engaged in secondary affairs, that those first-degree transactions on the ground take someone else, to de-concentrate these jobs at the local level. But in any case, this step in the formation of the State Inspectorate I support even though I am aware that not all inspections have been taken over, that unfortunately those inspections that have been taken over have not been fully taken over. And they should be taken over, the inspection should be removed from a number of ministries because it is not a job, for example, for the Ministry of Health to have a sanitary inspection within its department and therefore for your composition, a sanitary inspection, when you look at the internal structure, the Ministry of Health, 1/3 of the Ministry of Health, makes it a sanitary inspection, and I don't think it's the job of the Minister of Health to send inspections to cafes, but to deal with health system reform and how to provide quality health care for all citizens. What else would you like to say? I'd like to say a few more concrete things, I think that this legal text is quite burdened by some things that I don't think should be in the law, for example the law lists the internal structure of the State Inspectorate, I don't think it should be the subject of legal text. If we have a regulation on the principles for the internal establishment of a state administration body that applies to all, so if, under this Regulation, and it will be adopted for the future State Inspectorate Regulation on the internal structure of the State Inspectorate, where it will clearly count the internal structure, how many sectors, how many services, how many departments, who runs it, so it's all clearly defined, I don't think it should also stand in this law, that this is one surplus, so I say this very well-intentioned. On the other hand, we have a very large number of articles in the bill dealing with the conditions for carrying out inspection work. I think it is also not good, that this should be removed because we also have a Regulation on the classification of jobs in the State Service which determines the jobs in the State Service, we also have a Regulation on job names and on the coefficients of the complexity of jobs in the State Service which accurately prescribes a unique job name and professional conditions for doing jobs in these jobs. And on the basis of these regulations, tomorrow the Chief State Inspector will adopt a Regulation on the Internal Order which will, in fact, set out the conditions for these matters. If there is a need to add some kind of professional condition, a new name will then change that by the Internal Order Regulation. This way, if I show the need for that, we're gonna have to change the law. And I think adding these certain small professional conditions that then goes through the whole legal procedure, that it is unnecessary for me to ask the Minister and his associates to consider whether it is necessary to have, so here I heard, now refer myself, I think that's what my colleague Batinić said, just as regards the internal organisation that I previously stated to burden the legal text, here MPs are asking that we define exactly the cities and municipalities where we will have the regional units. I'm saying, I don't think it is, and it shouldn't, like these professional conditions, be the subject of the law, but sublegal acts. I support the passing of the law, but I ask the minister to really consider with the commentators for this second reading, so that they do not repeat the pains of the old State Inspectorate that existed, which was disbanded 5 years ago, so that they do not repeat pain inspections by the ministries which are now scattered by the ministries because the inspectors are changing the institutions where they work, changing actually only the panels at the entrance to the buildings where they work but they do not change their offices, they actually stay in the same offices, in the same chairs, here is now just a matter of coordination, horizontal and vertical and who will provide them with logistics, who is the one who will provide them with the car for work, the phone, pay electricity bills, I don't know about heating, telephone accounts, who will provide computers, because they will not change their work with this, they will not change their large number of special ones that are scattered outside of Zagreb, they will remain in the same building, and the new thing that the way, and the body would be done. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99037	Thank you very much. Now we'd move on to an individual debate and the first one would speak to the respected representative Branimir Bunjac, please. A fellow Bunjac, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99038	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are talking about the State Inspectorate Act, and above all we need to ask ourselves what the inspection looked like so far, how it was carried out, and so it was carried out by the ministries where there were five levels of supervision, by the Minister, Assistant Minister, Secretary-General, State Secretary and Sector Chief. Now all of this is lifted and complete inspection supervision is transferred to one centralised body that will therefore carry out all these tasks. At the head of that one body of the State Inspectorate, a single person called the Chief Inspector, who is appointed by the Government and who will be given the rank of State Secretary, and perhaps even slightly greater. Because one man is given 17 inspections in his hand, so he will oversee protection at work, working relationships, market inspection, tourism, forestry, hunting, toxic chemicals, construction inspection, mining, electricity, pressure equipment, nature protection, environmental protection, water law inspection, sanitary, veterinary, fitness and agricultural. In their work, the State Inspector will have seven assistants who will name themselves between 1,000 and 2000 employees, or employees under them. First and foremost problem, there is no one to control this man and apparently the chief state inspector gets into his hands too much power, because he will defacto oversee the entire economy and in some ways be almost a deputy prime minister. I must ask myself, then, what is the purpose of this Law, in fact whether the Prime Minister knows what, what will be the consequences of the adoption of this Law. There seems to be a serious suspicion that this centralised which is typical of monopolization, typical of HDZ structures, will create another polygon, another platform for the HDZ abuse of institutions, better said certain factions in HDZ that will allow similar entities to operate and the non-supervised ones to terrorise so long as they agree to pay the racket, or commissions, or simply not give up their jobs and go abroad as well as hundreds of thousands of other honest people who have seen that they can't live here properly. Of course, the ruling majority, or most HDZ, is trying to hide the real meaning of this whole law, and then they say, here we are introducing the principle that the first sentence will be forgiven, and then it will be given another time, but when we think about it a little bit, we know who it will be forgiven for the first time and who it will not be. And we also heard yesterday on the Committee from Mr. Secretary of State that in fact the goal of just increasing the sentence, the increase in punishment, and not its reduction. Also, what raises doubts throughout this process is the speed that the state's chief inspectorate is introducing. So today is October 24th, we have the first reading, the law should still pass the second reading, then there goes that procedure when it is to be adopted in the National Journal and so on, and the state inspectorate begins to work 1. 1. Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, So immediately 1.1.19. will be a rolling stock solved, seats, infrastructure, hierarchy and so on. Is that realistically possible? What about the procedures that are under way, what's the big hurry? Is there another interest group behind it again, whether it wants to hide something again, why one such important factor, such as the Croatian State Inspectorate, is introduced overnight. I repeat again, another important thing. The Chief State Inspector will answer to the Government, we believe that the Chief State Inspector should answer to the Parliament, that the Parliament should appoint him, not the Government. Why? Well, let's say in Poland, that's the rule. That's where the inspectorate responds to the Parliament. And then what happens when a monopolization like I just mentioned by the HDZ is in place? So that's what happens, just like we have in this case that a few people decide everything in Croatia. You have, for example, examples I don't know, in Zagreb, you have to go if you have a trucking school in one particular car school, in order to pass a driving test, because if you don't go to that particular car school, then you'll drop it at least 10 times. Then you have a situation in the Croatian forests, where everything has to go through, I don't know, one person, two at the Ministry in over a phantom association of some wood growers, where, of course, the ministers are best man, by chance. And then if you go through them you can get as much wood as you want, hundreds of thousands of cubes, if you don't go through them you won't get anything and you'll still get inspection to harass you and take what little you have, you won't get not only to do business, you won't even get a firewood, because that's what we see even in Gorski Kotar that's rich in that tree. Or, say, what happens if you want to do business in mining? If you want to get a concession in mining, you have to make tender documentation, project documentation or lobby through Rudist. Incidentally, this company is run by Mrs Ozana Krasic, and then by the mining commission there, the commission is run by her husband. And by chance, they're right in the godmother with Andrija Mikulic. If you don't accidentally create a lobby over that company, make sure they don't get a concession. And the concessions are usually for mining very good, they're gravel,... Boxit mines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do you know how much the concession is? 2% of the arrival. Export fee 1%. Someone would say great, let's all do mining, so it's the most business in Croatia but you won't get a safe concession. And then, by chance, this very same Andrija Mikulić becomes an inspector of the mining administration and now she's still pushing herself to be the chief state inspector. It'd be a little bit re-read, and then they'd find a replacement person to manipulate. But in any case, the mining inspection is included in this main State Inspectorate, and it is clear that therefore the Chief State Inspector will not have the task of protecting business in the Republic of Croatia but will have the task of protecting the octopus of the HDZ that has spread through the ministry. And that's why I'm asking you Ministers of Economy, I've sent you a parliamentary question to answer the question of how many of the total number of elaborates and mining projects have been made by Rudist and how many fees have been given to members of the commission at your department for the approval of these elaborates and projects. So what I want to say is that there is a very serious suspicion of the intention of establishing an institution like this and that it would be best to keep an existing supervisory inspection. The coordination between these inspections should only be improved within the existing system and citizens should also be informed about their rights as consumers. For now, until these circumstances are clear, the Living Wall will not be supported by the State Inspectorate Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99039	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branka Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99040	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this State Inspectorate Act will certainly bring about a better and more effective, more inspection and functionality. Although our craftsmen, our entrepreneurs, I would say, will rise their hair to the word "inspection" and "inspective business" but there should also be an emphasis on what is the tendency of this government, your ministry and this law. And today we have heard from the opposition orders that this is critical of a provision that has just given the authority inspector the opportunity to, despite a determined, sufficient degree of doubt in the offence he has committed, decide that he will not initiate the procedure. Which means that if irregularities are removed within a certain time limit that they can pass without sanctioning, of course, if the same offence has not been committed within a year. I think it is also commendable that all our craftsmen and entrepreneurs will praise that if certain irregularities are removed from the solution or if a solution has even been made, but the party has done so before it became executive or even at the very point of view of the record, it undertakes to remove these irregularities and shortcomings. Of course, if life, safety or human health are at stake, property of greater value and the environment that such a provision cannot be applied and that the party will have to remove it without delay. We must not forget that we have many small craftsmen, such as hairdressers, tailors, auto-limers, these are people who are of course neither educated nor on their teams, there are lawyers in their crafts who can follow the amendments to our regulations. We know that every Friday we vote on dozens of new laws, which, of course, apply partly to their business. And many of them don't want to be offenders, but simply out of ignorance, I get the circumstances and become. Penalties and misdemeanors in certain laws are really big enough to question their further business. As I come from Prioblja, from Sibenik-Knin County, the town of Vodice which has the largest number of accommodations and beds in private accommodation, I must also refer to those who provide hospitality services for renting rooms and apartments. We know it's mostly people of older age. I'd say a lot of them are even more modest education. And indeed, the Household Activity Act, and now we see the State Inspectorate Act, predict that in the first proceedings, if any party was not an offender, one can first of all be warned. Here, on this occasion, you'd also appeal to the Ministry of Economy, I don't know if you know that when someone goes to open any kind of crafts, for example. The construction craft that controls, here we could see in this bill, means building inspectors, labour environment inspectors, sanitary inspectors, market inspectors and therefore further strengthening coordination, enforcement of regulations in this area. Yes, for example. Someone like I said when they go to open a construction craft, there's no institution, there's no office that can come in and inform themselves what they need to do in accordance with the law. But then you have to surf on your own and ask for regulations. And, of course, when one of these inspectors comes, that's when you find out or that there's been a change of rules and things like that. Well then, it would be good if it were not to know whether the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, or, in this case, this newly formed state inspector who could warn that particular craftsman what everything in his business is necessary from acts, regardless of which one of the inspectors comes. In the replica I said a few sentences, now I will repeat, it says here that the consequences that will arise from the adoption of the Law is the unification of inspection jobs in the area of trade in services, unregistered performance of activities, catering activities, provision of catering services, provision of services in tourism, tourist tax and so on. Through all these proposed articles I have not seen, I see that again tourist inspectors are completely separate from market inspectors, although both have the same conditions, so to become a tourist inspector is enough to have a university study, or a specialist professional study in the field of social sciences, fields of economy and rights. The same thing you can have and become a market inspector, except that the dishes and others have specific areas from which they take the expert exam. If we know that, here in my Sibenik-Knin County, there are over 6.5 million overnight stays, almost a million arrivals, it all comes down to a few summer months, then it's unimaginable that only two tourist inspectors that we now have in the area of Sibenik-Knin County, and no matter what it's going to be under the hat of the state inspectorate and what will probably come from the interior one or two inspectors, I would appeal that in this law and, of course, later on in the implementation regulates the way in which here's the bar market inspectors can jump in those summer months to the tourist inspectors and I would join colleagues who have spoken about the bribery of inspectors because indeed the way they work, which all requires far, far more than they have now. I think that all of us should be the goal of no more, more punishments and an increasing number of offenders than the number of orderly entrepreneurs, and then here is the appeal to the state inspectorate that they will be the ones who will give at least the initial, first information that is necessary for the entrepreneur to work in accordance with all the legal regulations of his domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99041	Thank you very much, we have two replicas, the first respected representative of Giovanni Sponze.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed colleague, at the very beginning of your presentation, you said this law would be more effective, or more effective. So, I would kindly ask you to deepen just one question that I was talking about on behalf of the Club, namely, the construction inspection was in the state's control and according to this bill remains an ingenuity and part of the state body. We had over 800,000 legalization requests, which specifically means that the inspection didn't do the job as it was expected, so since it's still being built, especially in coastal areas, that nature is being destroyed, that in nothing environments are being permanently destroyed, that high-value land is being destroyed, on the basis of which we can get a guarantee that the basis of this bill is really going to end construction lawless construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99043	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99044	Thank you very much. I didn't look back on my friend Sponza's construction inspection, I agree that she should be united, not divided into two parts. As far as lawless construction is concerned, she's got something less than she used to be, but she still has it. I mean, as I said the inspection was underpaid, I was also saying that there are few tourist inspectors, and I also think of building inspectors, that there are few, and especially that part of whom Anka Mrak-Taritash, when it comes to building on the maritime good on our coast, this should be done as quickly as possible, as quickly as possible without any possibility, I don't know, appeal of a solution and so on, which delays the execution of the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99045	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99046	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, you yourself have said that this bill, when it comes to life, will surely lead to a more efficient and efficient, effective operation of the inspection itself compared to the current solution. I agree with you, and I think that in addition to what you were saying about the preventive action of the inspection, and in order that our entrepreneurs and craftsmen should not always experience this in a repressive way and the fact that according to this Bill proposal, and since we are now going to have the State Inspectorate as a special body, the possibility of filing an appeal for a solution is being reintroduced, which in this case has not been possible so far because the Ministry could not decide in the second degree on complaints because it is essentially about the same body. So I'm interested in your comment on that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99047	The answer of the respected representative of Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99048	Thank you very much, so fellow Jelkovac, I have just praised the work of this government and the promoter, all that we have through previous laws, you have spoken of these segments, and we can still list the Household Activity Act, I don't know, the Labour Protection Act, which provides for special treatment for those small, with regard to the Labour Protection Act, so those who are small will not have the same obligations as those greater, it is for the first time. When it comes to the Household Activity Act, those who first encounter information will also not be punished, as well as these provisions that you spoke of certainly go to the hands of entrepreneurs and our particularly small craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99049	Thank you, the next individual debate will be those respected MPs, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99050	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, the distinguished secretary of state with his associates. So, as I was arguing on behalf of the club, I said that I would do something a little bit more detailed on the construction inspection in the individual debate. Of course, life never begins with us or ends with us, that was significant before. There used to be, and we have to go back to history, when there were 101 municipalities in Croatia, or the City of Zagreb was 14, there were 115 units, construction inspections were at the level of units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. The same is true of construction inspections since the Croatian state was at the level of local self-government. And there, in the 2,000s, a construction inspection came under the auspices of the Ministry. I don't agree with my colleague Shuker often, but in some things I agree with him, he's on an individual, or on behalf of the club when he argues that they're a wish for the minister to be powerful ministers. I usually think it's a powerful minister who has a ministry with clear procedures that doesn't have to have a lot of people, but behind it must be the result. Similarly, when the legalization of illegally built objects started, or the preparation of the law, several articles were written by me even personally, which is why there are so many illegal constructions in Croatia. The reasons were the lack of, or spatial plans that did not suit the situation, long procedures, and responsibility among other things, were both economic and social and if that is the question, build illegally or not build illegally, cost you the same house, only ultimately illegal, not legal. And among other things, a lot of people said, "It's your fault, it's the state." Why? Because she didn't act, because she let us build a house, she didn't warn us in time. It's like driving a car, driving it all the time, driving it without a driver's license and saying it's your fault that you didn't stop me, but good. It's hard to compare. And then the building inspection came under the auspices of the state. After that, it has always been the wish of local self-government units, municipalities, or mayors and mayors, to give us something, that some of that inspection we have, why? Because we're in the field. Because we can react immediately, because we have for the area, let's say, the Primorje-Gorski County 6 inspectors, those who sit on the ferry, go to the island, or the Split-Dalmatia County, which has a mountain of islands, is not functional. So what matters is that the inspection is functional. By adopting the Law on Construction Inspection at the end of 2013, we gave some of the competences to the Communist directors. When you make a distance of three, four years then you know that you've done some things wrong, some things would be different, I'm still thinking that in the construction process you have to have part of the works that are simple procedures, for which you can be quick and expedient and can really be in terms of acting and be someone that, therefore, there's a building permit, a building inspector, where the main project is based which you can do communal director. It's about fences, it's about auxiliary facilities, it's about some other stuff. However, building inspection is a professional inspection and if you want to cover the area of construction in the inspectorate, then as you cover the area of food products, the area of health, the area of hospitality and tourism, covered in one place, then the whole area of construction, decide. Either in one place cover the entire area of construction or leave a construction inspection at the Ministry as it is today. Don't split the building inspection, because that way, we solve the mess by mess. That means the citizens themselves won't know where or what. I have to touch something here that's not the subject of the law, but I think the other parliamentary deputies got the letter, the Ministry said, we leave building inspectors with the authority of the building of importance to the state to oversee it, but when you see a list of people, not a single inspector today, you didn't get in the list of people. So, 4 or 5 places are in the ministry, and 25 people have read and left it to themselves. It's actually a relationship between you and your coalition partner, I rarely comment on that coalition, so I'm not going to do it now, and at least in the context of the construction inspection. Similarly, what we need to do is take a step, because if we don't take a step, we're going to be surprised at the number of illegal objects in a few years again. The point, when it comes to construction, therefore, when it comes to other inspections, you come and you can react behind it. When it comes to building inspection, the meaning of building inspection is the reaction in the foundations of the building, when it starts working, when the house is finished, when the house is moved in, it is, that you are now going there to destroy something, it absolutely leaves the wrong story. So the point is to react immediately. Now. It's just like the time we live in possible, one of the ideas was, of course, when you're doing your own program, then you have some ideas of what you want, the meaning of one of the ideas was, e inspection. So, today when your satellite, now look who's discussing it in this assembly, in real time, reacts. They were a very small amount to pay to get involved in one of these and to get a constant, you have a recording of Croatia at one point, you have a recording, so, the state of construction, and you see the changes that are at the same time, so you no longer have to go to the field like I said, when I started working long ago in the municipality of Trnja, there was a construction inspection in the municipality, there was construction scouts who had medium professional equipment, their task was to go around the field and at the end of the day, or at the end of the day, on a college to say, there was an outside brick, lime or anything, it checked what had been authorised, it was not to be controlled except the quality of the works, and what some works came, you stopped him and gave him the work and gave him a period of 15 days or a month to get a permit, and so it worked. It's supposed to work differently today. So, you've got satellite footage, satellite footage at the same time you see what's happened to you in space in the last 15 days, but what you need is a possibility of a spot reaction. Among other things, you have here, you will see the whole chapter, the way the solution is issued regarding the building inspection. So then you have an article 100 there,... 136 and says no law on construction inspection related to this construction inspection is applicable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You need to change that, you can't put it like that, but it would absolutely be good to think in the context of the next. As other inspections are to get you out, they're advised to say you're wrong. With a construction inspection, if you're building a house where it's not too hard to, then there's no other way. But what's really the point is the energy to function when the house starts to build, so the reaction is basically. Then you can save something, the least damage is to that investor because he's least invested by then. I'm in terms of legalization, we're really in the Ministry, I'm in person because I was interested in it, so I did my best, so I've been doing analysis and some other countries and what it is and how it is. In other words, after legalization it should have been a spotless reaction that we do not have any further illegal construction and we still have some further illegal construction. The purpose of the construction inspection is that illegal construction is sanctioned in roots and that you, in fact, as with other products, take care of the quality of construction with food products. That's actually, so that's the story. And don't split the building inspection for the simple reason that one mess we've got is solved by another mess. That building inspection thing isn't easy, if we just didn't discuss it so much, if anyone had any solution, we wouldn't be spending that much energy on it. But today, however, getting a construction inspector is absolutely impossible. The only thing possible is that it is possible for young people to hire them as trainees, that they are educated, that they are educated in a way that gives you a quality frame that can remain there. Today when he... for construction engineers, for architects for all technical professions, when they receive 2 to 3,000 euros on the ground, no one will be inspecting you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what it is you use tools and predict tools that are real time you can see what's going on, that's really what I'm talking about on behalf of the club and in individual, think again about the solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99051	We have one replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99052	My colleagues, Mr. Tarritash, have touched the suspension of the state inspectorate. To be honest with me back then, it wasn't clear to me what was the reason why it was done. Because when you're looking for certain changes, then you clearly declare your goal of doing so. That's why I said the only reason why the State Inspectorate is being abolished is that the ministers think they'll be powerful. The same story would be with the financial police. You remove the financial police twice and then you establish some kind of leap tax that basically has far less authority, far less operatives than the financial police. So when we change the administrative bodies in view of all the changes that follow, the administrative ones from the press to the head itself, then we just need to know what we want. Therefore, the change that took place in 2013 did not result. Now let's be smart, let's not go back to the way things were, let's bring in the law something that's good, something that's on the trail and what's on the building inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99053	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99054	Well, fellow Shuker, if it were clear to me, it would be easier for me. I was in that government that decided that way and I wasn't one of those people who was very supportive of it. And I didn't have any arguments about it. The building inspection never thought about going, so she wasn't in that great inspectorate. Today, if I were in that situation, I would have absolutely clear arguments as to why this inspection should remain in the ministry. But if it were a decision if she wasn't in the ministry anymore, then I'd insist on what I'm saying here. So if we do, if there is a desire for the Inspectorate to be all in one place related to a particular process or to a particular topic, then that should be the case, and that's why I've talked about other things. I'm, by the way, my wish was that the ministry didn't issue the permits at all, because the ministry doesn't have to issue permits, someone else needs to be issued, the ministry needs to deal with something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99055	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99056	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. In this morning's debate on behalf of the club, my colleague Shuker expressed the club's views on the adoption of the State Inspectorate Act, so I would just refer to a few of the essential provisions that are important to the public. I therefore support that the State Inspectorate Act unites 17 inspections within the State Inspectorate and on the trail of what was previously formed when it existed within the State Administration system the State Inspectorate has shown itself to be very good. And we, as a HDZ club, were in opposition and opposed the abolition of inspectorates and the return of individual inspections to the respective ministries. We thought it wasn't good, and therefore we support this bill that's in the first reading, but we think that by the second reading we should make some changes, certain changes that would fix, I've improved the text of the law. What I believe is important to resolve by this law and what will later come from the amendment of the Law on the establishment of central government bodies, which is the definition of a regulation that will prescribe regional offices at the level of the Republic of Croatia. I have to tell the parallel here with other authorities of the state administration who have certain jobs, employees who oversee others, in some other activities such as tax inspectors, such as police inspectors etc., etc. Why am I saying that? I am saying this for the reason that I am a supporter to the state inspectorate, when he defines his internal structure regulation he prescribes his district offices at the level of the county, as the IRS has done, as it has done, as it has, and it seems to me, in a certain way, that there is one logical sequence and that it would be good to take care of it, so that we do not go to regional district offices but that the department offices are established in accordance with the headquarters of the county in the Republic of Croatia, in this way, it seems to me that we are facilitating the business of inspection because they are very closely working closely with one and another central state organisation such as tax, I say as police administration and so on, and elsewhere, a number of other central bodies have deployed their own bodies in accordance with county seats, which is not the Customs administration that I do not agree with what I agree with. I think the Customs Administration was, should have been, or should have been, organised in such a way as to place its district offices in the offices of the Republic of Croatia. The second thing I wanted to point out was the construction inspection organization. In 2013, we experienced, I would say, through the adoption of the Croatian Assembly of Three Laws, the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction and the Law on Construction Inspection at the time, we had a significant debate in the Croatian Assembly on the position and importance of the Construction Inspectorate, which, if I may say so, made the Law on Construction Inspectors' Office a small building police department, simply, if I may say so, to the work of the building inspectors in local self-government units, which is necessary for the conduct of the construction inspection. What I consider to be a building inspection makes it different from these remaining 16 inspections, whose unification is foreseen within the State Inspectorate, that is the fact that it is not an economic inspection, so the construction inspection has a very broad, one long set of monitoring of the relevant tasks that are being broken and carried out within the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, and which then has control over as the Ministry has control over both the work of the county and the work of the municipalities and the work of the units of local self-government, therefore the municipalities and cities. And this surveillance, this monitoring begins through the adoption of spatial planning documentation followed by that part of the urban inspection within the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. Thus, through the adoption of spatial plans, their compliance with the law, their dealings with the Law on Spatial Planning and other laws that define the adoption of spatial plans is then followed by inspection of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning and through other inspections, construction inspection, later follow the realization of these spatial plans after the individual facility is obtained or a building permit, confirmation of the main project or building act to be followed. So, in my opinion, it wasn't in the classical sense of economic inspection and that was the reason, the fundamental reason why in 2004, the 5th year when it was formed, I now forgot exactly when the state inspectorate had not entered the construction inspection into the state inspectorate but was already singled out. On the one hand, and on the other hand there are works of construction inspection, for example on monitoring of capital, transport infrastructure facilities, extremely professional and fully connected with the work of the Ministry, and it is difficult to separate those inspection tasks from the monitoring, surveillance, all that is going on through the construction of certain facilities, and for that reason, the construction inspection was singled out and did not go into the composition of the state inspectorate, because I think, I think, in some ways, it is preparing a job later for these inspections which are economic inspection and which are organised within the framework of the State Inspectorate itself, so here I would therefore propose that my second reading really consider the inclusion of a construction inspection in the State Inspectorate. Regardless of how the Government solves, therefore, whether the Government will remain in this decision that the building inspection will also be an integral part of the State Inspectorate, or whether the works of the building inspection will continue to be part of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, this solution is not good. So, I am not in any way the solution, which is that those works of construction inspection relating to the monitoring and supervision of the facilities for which the building permit is issued by the Ministry, and that the other part of the simpler business, the monitoring of simpler facilities, is not good either because of the uniformity of the conduct, nor because of the adoption of appropriate legal solutions, acts, projects, plans for the work of the construction inspection where certain plans would be carried out in the Ministry and the other in the State Inspectorate, and the outcomes would be almost identical in many projects in many, in a large number of surveillance is not a good solution. So, I'm not for the solution to be separated, one part of the inspectorate, the other part of the ministry, but to be in one place, either in the inspectorate or in the ministry, and I'm personally about the fact that the works of the building inspection remain within the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, as was the case before, I'm saying for the reason that it recedes in its structure in its architecture in relation to other inspections. We have also given our specificity to the maritime inspection, so to the maritime inspectors who operate in the system of the Department of Safety of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. So we did not enter the State Inspectorate, nor did we, in the unifying of these matters, the maritime inspection affairs because we are aware that they too have a certain specificity that they are not, that they have certain reasons that do not form part of the state inspectorate, act by a number of international conventions, implement these international conventions, monitor and foreign ships when they sail to Croatian ports, monitor the behaviour of seamen, crews etc., etc. We have already shown that there is a certain specificity in the conduct of a certain number and type of inspectors that are not included among these 17 inspections. For this reason I see and draw my thought that it would be good to, to remain an inspection at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and, if it is not, there is no reason for me to split into two inspections, let's say a little more complicated affairs in the inspectorate and other simpler jobs in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99057	Thank you. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99058	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you've touched these district offices well. Why? That's why it occurred to someone to shut down the State Inspectorate for no clear reason, so some government began to form in five district offices. And that's where we asked in the debates not once to explain the meaning of it. It would make sense to me, too, when we talk about the tourist inspection that she has the greatest power at sea. But he must also have in Zagreb and in some others... Places that definitely exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whether we will follow the borders of regional and local self-government which would be smart and even if more units of local and regional self-government were in one area office like it used to be, but it would be good to have it in law defined to know exactly what it is, what we want to achieve. And then we send a clear message. And this way, if we don't have it in the law, then we send the fog.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99059	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shucker, you're absolutely right. I, too, would be inclined to say better than the defined internal structure of the State Inspectorate before it becomes known that it will have its own district offices in the county headquarters. There have been wandering at certain ministries when an area office was tried to organise one at the level of some regional centres, but later it returned to say in the county structure of the Republic of Croatia where these bodies were eventually detained in county headquarters and I think it would be good to do so by the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99061	The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99062	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, yes, inspections, I've had them as an entrepreneur many times. The perception of entrepreneurs was at least at that time that individual entrepreneurs had influence and actually parties had an impact on inspections so that some entrepreneurs were not satisfied because some were controlled, some were not. Well, we know ourselves, watching as time went by that some of them haven't paid taxes or obligations in this country, but nothing's happened yet. Of course the inspections need to, of course they have to do whatever it takes to work by some rule. However, more attention should be paid to those who work without registration, without, means that they are not, who do not pay tax obligations as they say on black. I completely agree and I think this is a good thing to do today to centralize in one place and to know the entrepreneur and address someone unless they're satisfied with the inspection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99063	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Misic, it is good that these 16 or 17 inspections are united in one place. The work of inspection in me is not campaigning but continuous and permanent. So I'm not prone to some spectacular inspection action now where at some point, certain days, the months will be carried out by certain special tasks, but to keep it a continuous work. But I agree with you, the business of inspection should not only be controlled by gray but also black zones. What you said. So, not to suffer those who have registered and those who work on black and are not registered pass under the inspection radar. Therefore, here you are right, I agree with you that the inspection should in any way monitor this black zone that is many, often passes under the radar and those who are registered and who may not meet 100% of the rules prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99065	The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99066	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. My colleague Bačić, when it comes to the area of construction and spatial planning, we often agree on whatever side of this assembly we were sitting on. When we talk about building inspection one topic is the work of building inspection, one topic is the work of municipal directors, one topic is this, but another topic is that this construction inspection will be. To be good, to be effective. We have to do everything to make it effective and not the mess we have today where it is not effective to solve the new mess that we do not know where it is. So somehow my message would be, I trust that your word will be heard. So don't listen to anything I said, listen to your colleague Bačić for what he said, listen to him, make an inspection in one place, it would be better if he were in the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, but if he can't do it then unite the construction process in one place and everything that is related to the construction process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99067	The next individual debate is a respected representative, and ha, sorry, sorry, answer. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Mrak Taritaš, you have also said and expressed in your presentation what I agree with, and this is the specificity of the building inspection, its importance and the need to make her work unambiguous and when it comes to small housing and when it comes to the Pelješa Bridge, therefore, regardless of who issued the building permit of any facility, the inspection must act unanimously, in order to act unanimously in terms of the conduct of the procedure, she must be in one place, united, it seems to me that the beginning of any thought on the formation of a successful inspection, in this case of construction. So, we agree, let it be together, and I think we agree that her place is where she's been so far because if it hadn't been for 12, 13, 14 years ago, she'd have stayed where she stayed in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99069	Thank you very much. Now the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99070	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. Well, here's just a few words, I was moved by Mrs. Taritash's debate, which says, one nation, one mess we've had with another mess, I was against then, but I voted for, so we have, as a minister, meaning we have some kind of inversion and disagreement, obviously just so we don't get along, but the facts are something else and we're going to check it out, so I don't believe that you voted as a government minister against the fact that the then state inspector has broken down into a few inspections that entered into other ministries, because we've witnessed it, I know then the position of the HDZ Club and we strongly opposed it because it was in no way clear why the ministers wanted to have a very close inspection when it was nicely complex and independent body that was under the hat of the whole state, so that the state inspectorate, did they want to have any different influence on these inspections or otherwise wanted something else. We see for ourselves that after a few years, it's been a mess. And now there's a government that wants to solve it, and then we hear another remark, and there's going to be a mess again, because we have a dispute over one inspection, whether it should stay at the Department of Civil Engineering, whether it should stay whole in the state inspectorate for the future or share it again as the law has ordered. The fact is that this law abolishes several, I think five other laws, that it goes and touches 7 of the Ministry and 17 of State inspections, that it has a very well-assembled structure in the sense that we know exactly what one of these inspections should do, from market, sanitary, veterinary, agricultural, I don't know, inspection of livestock, food and so on, forestry, hunting, that it clearly prescribes who does what and how it should be done. What everyone here is clearly showing is what is and how the Chief State Inspector is doing, his assistants and afterwards means a whole pyramid that has to work and that worked until 2013 and in 2014 it was all disbanded into a number of ministries. I think about the conduct of the inspection, no matter what happened in 2014, when the inspector comes to you, it causes respect, anyone, and the employer or private natural person, you have to sort of cooperate with that gentleman or lady, put your papers on the table, documents and everything you have, and start some sort of procedure. What did we get out of these procedures? We had a fact that we had only a beginning in many situations, a very rare end, the conclusion of such proceedings, and especially in the construction area, so we would go, we would notice an illegally built building, we would also do a municipal director on behalf of some municipality or city, and then an inspector would come to the construction site that would find that something was wrong and it was going to start a process, and then it all goes into another sphere, justice, courts, making certain decisions and ultimately certain solutions, and I don't know what numbers it counts in, I would really like to hear that fact when we talk about construction, how many solutions we have about removing or destroying unauthorized buildings or parts of objects that can't be done. So, the fact is, that we had the legalization of illegally built objects and that this legalization has achieved quite a lot of success, but it is not even finished today, and it is one story that will probably be solved for the next few years, but still, I say, many processes and procedures take place in that citizens or users of their own parcels or objects simply come to a certain level of justice. What the state inspectorate is going to do, I say, when he returns to that status that he had until 2013, I hope through a law like this, which, here we have some doubt that will probably be resolved by the second reading, we can even better prescribe, so that there is no dispute in that part that is quite active. As for tourism itself, tourist inspectors and the way they act, I think they do their job in accordance with what they can and with how many they simply have. We have to admit that we do not have enough people who can simply solve certain problems in tourism and it is not good for the state to conclude for itself that no matter what it says in some law, it is not possible to control certain areas, so we are changing the laws to remove or remove any work from the inspectors because we are unable to control what we have written and with inspectors and all other bodies. So, as far as I'm concerned with the support of this bill, I think this little dispute over where a building inspection is placed entirely on one side or the other, is not my half, half, so much of me for this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99071	We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99072	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Boric, as a great expert in interpreting other people's thoughts you tried to explain what Mrs. Anka Taritash-Murk meant or didn't mean. But let's put it aside, I think you've been trying so hard. Tell us what you think of, say, Article 30 of this Act, which says that the government should appoint a chief state inspector and that it corresponds to the government. The same government whose bodies should be controlled in their work. Doesn't it seem to you that this is an attempt to control the government over one in fact, an independent body that should in one independent way do its job and present to this House such an opinion, as we do, a state attorney. Do you think this article 30 works on the character of the state inspectorate's independence, because if it's not independent, it's better not to have it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99073	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99074	Thank you very much. Kola Klisovic, the fact is that by opposition we constantly have attempts to raise certain doubts about whether some institutions are good or not independent enough or not. You solved it in the way you felt that independence should be left to the ministers, so you distributed that state inspectorate and gave each minister an individual that in the same way that you are now giving us a solution to the matter of certain inspection controls. I don't see much difference in the fact that the inspectorate that was divided into 7 or 6 ministries then, through certain services that were under the minister, was much more independent than the state's attorney in terms of the government. I think that your suspicion of whether someone is independent enough can then be applied to the agencies and to all the other bodies that we have established, saying that they have the right to exercise their legal powers, in the way they feel that by law and by definition. And what Mrs. Dark means or doesn't think, she said it herself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99075	Dear Representative Ivica Misic has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99076	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Boric, now we're talking about inspections that will alert him at a certain time, and that's good. I'll tell you just one short story that I've experienced myself, where I didn't report my employee one day. The inspector came to me where she sent me to the judge for violations, of course I paid the fine, and I paid everything that was needed in that month, it's absurd, where the judge told me, so forgive me, but I have to punish you. And you know when the employer comes to court then it's a shame and they say you're guilty and you're a thief, like this. I think that kind of thing, it's funny to pay for a worker for a month, one day you're not doing it for an internet that didn't work, it was Friday, he applied on Monday, and it's the hardest, my daughter was, it's not someone on the side. Here's the other day I've been reporting a worker, so it took me 11 days to get to the end of the report, and that's about the administration telling me what entrepreneurs are going through. Inspector, we agree completely, but to be a warning, not just a punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99077	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99078	Thank you very much, colleague Misic I agree that it is a good thing that writes, i.e. This article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. I think that in many situations it will be possible, in some situations it won't be possible, because if you're illegally starting to build something, you're a certain offense, or you've already finished, you've done and there's hardly any warnings we'll be able to say, stop or don't do anything. But in many other situations where services are involved, especially in trade, in tourism and so on, in terms of some shortcomings that are easier in nature, I think that by applying the principle of opportunity and warnings that something should be corrected is good and I think that, as we have already tried this year through a number of actions, this again here by the opposition was shown in quite one inappropriate way with banal examples, we want to show that we want to take care of entrepreneurs, craftsmen and if there are mistakes that can be corrected and that there must not always be a punishment and a violation that solves it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99079	The Republic also has a respected representative Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99080	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Boric, you have spoken the same about specificities and we are all constantly talking about the specificities of the construction inspection, that it should remain in the Ministry of Construction. The same thing is also repeated again, for the 15th time, is related to the specificities of veterinary and sanitary inspections as food safety inspections. It will be difficult to coordinate the work of this inspection in the event of crisis situations, the occurrence of infectious diseases, we do not know what the competent authority is, whether it will be the Ministry of Laws or the inspectorate that implements them. In the event that there is a need to react without delay, it is certainly better that such a person, that the competent body in one body, so either at the Ministry of Agriculture as it has been so far, and I note that never before have veterinary and sanitary inspections been under inspectorate, and when it comes to handling it, it is certainly not the same whether someone should have acted in an infectious disease or destroyed the house in a week or two. So I think that either everything should be in the inspectorate or it should be possible for food safety to be specific under the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99081	Thank you. Here's a response from the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99082	Thank you very much, colleague Križanić, just for a short time, so we are in two readings, hopefully, here's the Secretary of State with his associates listening carefully to what we think we should fix between the two readings and hopefully respect these remarks, because if there is really a reason as you have said it, I think that there should be some understanding and the Ministry that proposes that these things be brought into line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99083	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99084	Thank you, Vice-President, you said that by 2013 we had an independent system of state inspectorate and that we are returning to this law in 2013 when it will be as independent as it was before. I would not agree with you, namely, until then, until 2013, the main state inspector was also elected by the government, as you are proposing now, it was only prescribed that this state, chief state inspector must be from the house, that he has certain conditions, that he must have 20 years of experience in the profession, certain criteria were prescribed, while in this bill there is not a single criterion. I can be the chief state inspector tomorrow, and we know why that is, and because our suspicions are justified, because we all know who's gonna be the chief state inspector tomorrow. And you're dealing with your internal relations in HDZ. It's going to be one of your party colleagues who's going to be the prime minister every once in a while, and they're going to say, look, if you deny me my independence or my addiction, I'm going to go back to Parliament and I'm going to tear you down. Our suspicions, whether justified or not, will be seen when he is appointed and who will be appointed. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99085	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99086	Thank you very much, fellow Djujic, even though it was as good as you say it was, you've lifted it. Right? So now we're proposing something new and you say it won't be independent and you already know who it will be, here I don't know. These insinuations of you, just from day to day, are already really burdensome for this Assembly and for the public, so, personally, here, I don't know, and you sure as hell won't be, you could confirm that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99087	Next individual debate, distinguished representatives of Martha Luc-Polanc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99088	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. So here's all the speakers to this day have agreed more or less that we should return this State Inspectorate and some have admitted a mistake, some have not... But what's interesting? It is interesting that we now have before us the State Inspectorate Act which is part of the National Reform Programme for 2018. So that's something we've been expecting for a long time because in this 2018 we haven't had a lot of examples of reform except here's the pension that's coming tomorrow. And so we're getting something old that we call reform this year and then there comes a law that's full of blanks and we're actually forming the body that we used to have. So if we had the State Inspectorate once, if he acted as such, they could already see the benefits and shortcomings of the work of such an inspectorate after a number of years, and then today's law couldn't possibly be such a rough work version full of gaps and flaws. I will try in this debate of mys to cite some that I think are really big, big holes, gaps, so I will ask the Proposer to explain why it is left. By this law, you connect 17 inspections from 8 ministries. It is also set out in Article 4 to which inspections are to be carried out. Now that it remains unclear to me, which is why you, within that inspection and the economic inspection, are listed in Article 3 of the State Inspectorate, why do you not have, for example, traffic inspectors within that inspection? Why don't you have a fishing inspection and you have food inspectors and an agricultural and veterinary inspection? Well, then, if we're doing a construction inspection here, why don't you have a cadastrian inspection here? So it's obvious that this as a reform was done back on our noses and that we have a very scrupulous and undeveloped form of law. So I would like to ask the Proposer to make it clear why these inspections are not in the law. Furthermore, colleagues on the right thank you that the jurisdiction of each individual inspection is strictly stated in this law, as it clearly sets out who will do what. However, there are only responsibilities prescribed by the basic laws, there is nothing new, so in those fundamental laws what was the jurisdiction of the inspector is now all collected into one single law because you still have professional inspections there is now no single way of doing it. Now that I'm a little bit, I've looked at the inspector's jurisdiction and what confused me, and that's the jurisdiction of environmental inspection. In Article 26(2), you state that the environmental protection inspector is obliged to submit environmental monitoring reports to the Authority and the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. I think it's kind of humiliating the activity of the inspector. Inspector, I'm already listed in my replicas because we still have to look at him as one repressive body, he's the one who controls the laws. I don't know why the environmental inspector would ask him to collect environmental records, keep records, collect, assemble eyewitnesses, carry them to competent administrative authorities, and then what do they do? And then, in the governing body, an officer will put those eyewitnesses in the tables and display their statistics that month. I don't think that makes sense, and that these powers that you have put into the environmental protection inspection that it is essentially the work of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and then the inspector who will control whether the agency is doing it properly, whether it is leading the eyewitnesses, whether there are any deviations, etc. Now I'd like to look back on the structure of the body of the state inspectorate. Namely, you designed the State Inspectorate to be formed as a central one state office where then you have meaning central office, at the territorial level you will have district offices, branch offices, so there will now be some sectors, in the field offices there will be services, departments, etc.. What is not clear why this law is so and this is already highlighted during the debate, which is why you do not specify criteria and conditions for such persons to become head of services, departments, sectors and chief state inspectors at all, it does not have to meet any criteria. Let's say for example. which is unclear in the law. You're suggesting that someone would be head of the sector, he has to work at least 4 years on the most complex inspection tasks. Here I'd like the proposer to show what the most complex inspection controls are. If you have the Republic of Croatia divided by some territorial units and if you have an agricultural inspector who has his share of the tour, then he has a certain area of land he is visiting, he has an annual tour plan and control of certain stages of work on earth. It's not clear which is now the more complex job of that inspector. Each object is specific by itself, each object depends on a series of circumstances. So now I'm curious about where you're going to prescribe it and what it's going to be more complex or less complex inspection jobs. I'm afraid that's going to lead to the inspector at 2, 3 years of work, here 4 you'll put in a leading position to be an inspector with 20 years of employment just because you've invented and attributed some jobs to more complex ones. I think it should be much more transparent and clear that whoever wants to move forward in the system knows by what criteria he wants to move forward. And here, I see, I don't have much time. And I especially wanted to point out the confusion in Article 32(2) of the Inspectorate in the central office. I'd like to know what the inspector will do in the central office. It says here that he could do jobs in the entire Republic of Croatia if needed. If the inspector is independent in his work, if he is high-ranking, because when you look at the criteria for the inspector's post, you are greater, stronger, more numerous and more difficult than for the chief of the sector, etc. So the inspector is an expert, who is independent in his work. And now, in the central office, he's going to have an inspector who's going to do what? I think it's just going to be about a person who has a higher coefficient who doesn't have to do anything, because today you have it in the ministries, that the investigators down there who put it on the ground, they send their work report to the inspectors at the ministry, who then display those reports as their statistics. I think the central office should have professionals, who will be the basis for the work of inspectors on the ground, but they can't be called inspectors, because they don't go on the ground, they don't do that inspector's work. So, if there were, I'd just conclude, the law has a lot of shortcomings and that doesn't make sense, since we're bringing back the body we had. We are now supposed to get this law in a much better form, because we know both the advantages and disadvantages of the previous system that it was. Furthermore, in the inspection, there is an emphasis in the debate, one perception that inspectors are corrupt. Well, that's exactly the kind of bad law that's unsettled, and I've replicated it, so the worthless violations that are listed, that the inspector won't be punished. You know, the rules must be clear, nothing can be left to a discretionary assessment, when the regulations are clear, then it is simple and easy to follow and only such regulations can eliminate any perception of bad work, nerada, perception of corruption, etc. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99089	Thank you very much. We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Zdravko Ronk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99090	... You said, among other things, there are no special papers. [[Specially enabled.]] However, according to me, there is a newspaper, and one of them is that until yesterday the intelligence of the one under surveillance was used, only then was it illegal. And now we have in art. 59th Legalization, intelligence of the one to be monitored. I'm interested, as you look at when you're already principles of subject and other, given that you've mentioned corruption in an eco sense, I'm interested in how you look at and say thinking, that inspectors are subject to property cards, because when you compare them and MPs, MPs are small fish, so I'm interested in your position.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99091	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Luc Polance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99092	I completely agree with you. This law, of course, is also one of the shortcomings that you've noticed very well, and I'm glad you warned him exactly. This law now allows the inspector, if he considers it necessary to inform the party, to come to the field. And it's listed casually. So it's not stated, for which kind of supervision of this relationship, but in a flat-rate manner, that's the inspector's assessment. I think it's such a possibility to abuse that article, that any valid action can be broken down. So if you're the head of the field office and you're going to work-time control, the bar, you'll be told by one inspector, the owner of the place, that they're coming to the field. You find out he called it in, what? He will refer to the article, which gives the law that possibility, because that is how he assessed it. So it doesn't make sense that the inspectors are announcing themselves to the parties. There's some kind of program they're working on, and it's known they're going around the field, and the parties already know about what time it's being controlled.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99093	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99094	Thank you. My colleague Polance, the problem of inspection is, among other things, ineffective, which is now going to be a holding inspectorate perhaps not bad. However, ineffectiveness is problematic and I will set an example. We have reported, in terms of the protection of the bank's consumers to state attorneys, to the Croatian National Bank, to the Ministry of Finance, no one has responded to their illegal behaviour, in terms of the determination of interest margins, which are not agreed, which should have been agreed. All the hot potatoes moved away, no one started any procedure, only the citizens themselves, started 700 procedures, privately, means independently as damages, and eventually the High Court of Infringement declared aging. So the state had a chance to collect several billion kunas of fines, and the state did nothing about it. The way you look at that situation, where the little ones are being punished, and the big ones aren't being processed at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99095	The answer of the esteemed representative Luc Polance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99096	That's exactly the problem of the inconclusive and vague regulations that I've been talking about. So the problem is in the field of the work of inspectors, I also believe that the fact that they are not clearly defined, and when they are given instructions, not to punish certain persons for easier violations, they don't know what easier offenses they're doing, so then they're always going along a line of less resistance, I'd rather work less, than do more and make more mistakes. Because that's the kind of indiscretion that contributes to it. And as for this State Inspectorate, I hope this work will be effective, because your current State Inspectorate has had your work on principle, that they've had corrected actions, so this week we're only controlling the carrot in Kaufland and we're doing nothing else. Unfortunately, the inspectors accepted that by the less resistance line because the system was such that it was like fighting a system where they knew they were going to lose in advance. And with a simple line of little resistance, they took that job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99097	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99098	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Luc Polance, I find it interesting whenever you mention what experience inspectors must have in high complex affairs. There comes the Minister of Agriculture, comes to the field and sees that there, apparently after the application came, saw clearly, doesn't process a man who's hired because this one takes the incentive, this one's working on them, so they agreed and that inspector wrote it all down nicely, but when he gets to the state's attorney there's no evidence that, simply no one's going to make you a sublet, that's our laws. Or you're getting a tip from an agricultural inspector that your neighbor's snakes are entering the yard, which is a very complex job for you. I'm afraid this way we won't raise my level or the work of these inspectors, and their statuses their role in society. I'm afraid they'll still be goddesses who will come in with Fiat Tempro to question a man whose son burns a bill with a bill of cigarettes in the amount of their monthly salary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99099	The answer to the esteemed representative Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99100	I agree with you fellow, that's exactly what I said I was afraid the inspectorate would be working on the order from Zagreb and then on the less resistance line this week we're controlling the carrot in Kaufland and we're not doing that regular job of ours. So, as long as it is not understood that the inspectors are independent in their work, and until they are valued in the rank of judges, state lawyers, because it is the same repressive apparatus, it is one responsible job, but on the other hand there are no more complex and simple jobs. It's all business within the rules of the profession, every inspector does his job, so here I am once again calling the promoters, I would like to list which inspection work is more complex, and which is simpler, so that people in the system know what their conditions are and under what conditions they will be able to advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99101	The next debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, this is an important law, a law on which the reform law, in my view, may even be the only reform law this year because, until now, I wouldn't call it that, this is a real reform that changes one system so far into a whole new system and this is the law that's been talking about for a year and a half that should come to this, and given how long this law has been being discussed and how it's been announced, I think it's a lot of holes and it's a lot of open questions. So what I expected was that we had experience of two different systems behind us, so we had a system that is now proposed to a united state inspectorate and we had a system called that. The decentralised state inspectorate, where these 17 inspections that are now going under one cap have been spread across different ministries and I think with the time behind us we can see exactly what's good about one system, what's good about another, which is not and that's why we should get the bill. But there are a lot of things here that are open, a lot of things in general, and I want to point out some that I don't think are good. So much will be regulated by government regulations. I think the things you've predicted to regulate them by regulations should be written specifically in the law, because if we know the same thing is the first reading of this law, the second thing we can expect is, I don't know until the end of the year, and when are you going to make the regulations? And practically a new structure should come into effect as early as 1.1 next year, and I am still not sure that you will be able to pass those regulations that will prescribe the most important things in this Law. And that's the number of jobs, the number of outposts, to which the level will be the structure of the organisation of the state inspectorate, salaries, pay coefficients, etc. Therefore, all these issues remain open and are listed in this law to be regulated by regulations. The sentence that bothers me is that the implementation of this law does not require additional funds. Now, if we know there's going to be an increase in the number of jobs, because there's going to be new management personnel, given that this is coming together, you're bringing together 17 inspections, there's going to be bosses, new outposts, new branches, etc., then it's impossible there won't be an increase in financial resources. On the other hand, if we know that building inspectors have an average salary significantly higher than other fellow inspectors, I expect these wages to be paid now that they will all be under one hat equally and that they are all brought under the same level. Now, sentence, if this law does not require new funds, then it leads me to the fact that you will bring building inspectors down to the average level of other colleagues, which I think is not good, because other colleagues are underpaid in or on what they should be, because we are saying that this law is being adopted in order to improve the efficiency of the state inspectorate, and what is the motivation for underpaid workers, for workers who get paid below the level for which they should be and thus also affect their independence. On the other hand, one newspaper is introduced into the law, which is the uniformity of the inspector. So from now on they'll all be in uniforms, that's what the law says, and that's still some extra new funding that's supposed to cost. So I'm not sure how much you've actually done the right cost analysis and how much these things have been brought in at the end of the day. The other thing, one of the problems that arises, which cannot be seen from this law is the dislocated inspection. So today these inspections are located across various ministries, and the logic would be that if it were now one body, a single state inspectorate, they would all be in the same place. Now, are you able to ensure that the future state inspectorate is all in the same facility, at the same location, in the same place in the city of Zagreb, all 17 inspections that enter into one story. And that also causes some new costs, if that's not so, if they're still going to be dislocated, then I think there might be a lot of problems in their efficiency and their work. So, on the other hand, the regulations you also decided to prescribe, so the number of assistant attorney general, head of the branch service, I'd like to write it in the law, if we knew what level these exposures would go to. Whether we're going to have outposts at the River-Zagreb-Osjek-Split-Pula level, means cities based county or we're going to go to those lower levels, type I don't know, Delnice, Senj, Otokac, Crikvenica, meaning some levels of former municipalities until 93, as it used to be. It would be very good to see from this law, however, it is still a great unknown, I would ask you to work it out until another reading and move in that direction. And one of my proposals would, if this were the final draft of the law, then write an amendment, but I ask you to consider eventually adopting it until the second reading, which is Article 79(2), which states that in the event of the introduction of a criminal case against a private prosecutor, which refers to his doing business and what he was working on, that in these variants, the chief state inspector, if he were to assess, can decide that the costs of this procedure are borne by the State Inspectorate, I would suggest that you consider introducing it as an obligation, that the chief state inspector must approve the financing of the defence inspector if it turns out later that he is guilty, that the inspector will charge it from him, but that the inspectors know that they have support in his inspector and in the state that he will be standing behind them financially to defend them because then the same contribution to their independence because in this case, if they do not have this behind, there are some rich companies and companies, that will deliberately prosecute it is going to do not have to do so that they will not have to do anything. Here I think it's a correct suggestion that you can accept it, here's what I expect you to do until the second reading to think about it a little bit. And another for colleagues from HDZ who do not know, so for a year it has been said that the next state inspector is a HDZ member, a parliamentary representative who does not come from the current near Andrej Plenkovic and is highly positioned in the Zagreb city's HDZ. Now, we'll see if these doubts come true, whether it's going to be so and who's going to be the future state inspector, if that's not the case, then you'll defuse our suspicions, if that's the case, then it's another confirmation that the laws are being passed in order to resolve the internal relations and conflicts in HDZ, that another hand from the Parliament that's not very obedient is moving as far away as possible from here and that it's being held there in the warmth of the State Inspectorate. Here, I hope you can talk us out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99103	Thank you. We have a replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99104	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Djujic, you have well noticed that you cannot expect the inspectorate staff to be satisfied and to work and to work quality if he is less paid than another colleague and cannot be done the same without stronger financial separation from the state budget and it would not be good for some inspectors to have a higher salary, others being in the same state body. But why did I report to you for the replica of the replica, you said it should be in one place, I agree that as a state body should have a seat but why should it be in Zagreb? They say there will be around 170, 180 in central, why must it be in Zagreb, is that because Mr Bandic is asking or maybe Cacic will ask to be in Varazdin? And I would love to be in Slavonia because it would be 180 new jobs in Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99105	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99106	Kolega Vlaović, well The Central State Office is located in Zagreb, in Zagreb are all ministries and in Zagreb are simply because of practicality, so it should be the headquarters in Zagreb because then they can carry out their activities more easily but therefore we have offices and district offices. I think that one central state body that includes 17 inspections that now go from construction, finance, tourism and agriculture, you cannot be dislocated, it must be in Zagreb. But it turns out because that's what I said, that I'd like the law to say what level we're going to go to at the local level, so whether it's just the cities of the county headquarters or we're going to go to the former municipalities, to the structure of '93. And I think that's how it should be, if we had the lower net, then there's only danger there because every outpost requires one leader so that we don't end up having maybe more bosses than employees, is like the danger we can encounter. But that's why I'd like the ministry gentlemen to give us answers to these very questions by the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99107	The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99108	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Vlaović, you are asked to go to the inspectorate outside Zagreb because in Zagreb you need to secure a place for Mr. Andrija Mikulić, who is the new state inspector and that is the only reason why this is done now and again on the other hand is the problem that in this State Inspectorate will not have all the inspections again but will enter only those ministers who are not strong enough to resist then what the Ministry of Economy predicts. The state inspectorate with this will not become more effective, it will continue to be the foothold of corruption as it has been before and will not be effective because it simply does not perform its function as it is intended.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99109	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99110	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Mrsic, you've replicated your colleague Vlaović so I won't refer to that part, but you said who this place is being prepared for and I've told a little bit more of the story and there are still senior representatives from the HDZ in the city of Zagreb except for my colleague Mikulić and we'll see if there are two or three or only he might be in play.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99111	The next debate will be the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99112	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to give a general picture of my view of inspection affairs in the Republic of Croatia and, above all, the attitude of these businesses towards the development of entrepreneurship, I think it is extremely important and then in the second part, I will make some concrete remarks on this bill. Namely, when we talk about inspection and if we look at a little example of the developed country, then we can say that in Croatia there is an emphasis when we talk about an inspection of the repression. This is not a good message, and this has proved to be in a number of cases and what we cannot single out this legal proposal from the framework of the social climate we are in. Today people don't trust the institutions of this country and everyone if you talk to entrepreneurs, when the subjects of inspection control are generally said to talk about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that, attacking us, we are being sent inspections and these great ones are doing what they want and are going through regularly not only taking into account the business of these great... but consider the general situation in the judiciary and say the full climate in society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, when you tell history, when you go back to... The state inspectorate remembers then writing about media and inscriptions, there were some concrete examples, where people rightly complained, that at that time, if they did not support a particular political option, in which case, it was HDZ because it was the strongest political option, because it was in power, then they were sent an inspection, it was the perception of people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Later, it got to the ministry and now we have what we have, we want to return even, increase the scope of the state inspectorate. So the volume is now increasing, and therefore this legislative proposal is not that large by the number of articles, but it is extensive in everything that it foresees. So what the colleagues were saying, from the very vertical organization, from the chief state inspector, his deputy, the assistant, the chief of the sector, then we come to this horizontal distribution, and in the end we have territorially from the field offices, the head of the service, the head of the department from the end of the outpost. So a very, very extensive area to which this law applies and which this law seeks to cover. I would like this law, a legal proposal to show in practice a better solution than before, but I am afraid it will not be easy, as fellow Djujic warned, because I do not understand that if the funds are not needed, so where these people will be, I guess they will be located somewhere. Either, or I haven't followed it well, if they've been in the ministries so far, maybe they'll stay in the same offices they've been in, maybe explain it in the end, where people, if we talk about the area offices, where they'll be located, where they'll be, if they'll be in the existing offices of the state administration, or we'll find somewhere else. The truth is that they complained the moment they were deployed by the ministries, that they had practically lost their jobs. Now let me start to make concrete remarks. I said it in the opening part in the replica, I didn't say it until the end there was little time, now I'm going to explain it, and the minister didn't give a satisfactory answer either. Namely, art. 56. paragraph 4. a building inspector may collect personal and other data in a person's home without prior consent if home is a construction site. According to the Law on Construction of Article 3, the construction site is a land and either a building of an inclusive and temporary occupied area on which the construction or works are carried out to apply the appropriate technology and to build why, construction and construction are now defined as what it is. Construction is the construction of construction and other works. Watch out, prepare, ground, constructor, installer, final and installation of construction products, equipment or facilities, which build new buildings, reconstruct, maintain or remove existing buildings. The way I see this law, if someone leaves their home tomorrow, the neighbor reports it, the inspection goes by application, the inspection can enter a man's home, into a house without a warrant, and carry out surveillance. I think it's unacceptable and the Attorney General has made an observation. Article 56(4), point (b) and (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), point (c) of Article 4(1), point (c) and point (c) of Article 4(1), point (d) of Article 4(1), point (d) and point (d) of Article 4(1), point (d) and point (d) of Article 4(1), point (d) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), point (d) of Article 4(1), point (d, point (d) and point (d) of Article 4(1), point (d) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), point (e, point (d) of the first subparagraph, point (d) of Article 4(1), point (e, point (f) and (f) of the first subparagraph, point We're talking about small crafts and small entrepreneurs, including the O.P.G. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 100th was prescribed, article 10 of the Construction Act and was then added to the brackets behind the word building, was added especially to the housing brackets. The apartment's been added. So, this isn't good, look, this isn't a good solution, this is against art. 34. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the home is invulnerable and only the court can make its decision to enter. When we say one more thing that goes into the eyes, the truth, maybe it's not clearly defined enough, but you should think about it, it's the inspectors,... Under pressure, one in ancient years, was singled out from the state inspectorate, a pressure vessel agency was established, later due to the expert public's observations, it was said that the agency could grow into a company, as it could generate significant revenues on the market, income was mentioned annually over 10 million euros, from a variety of periodic reviews of pressure vessels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we're taking the inspector back to the State Inspectorate, I don't see that that's a bad thing, but what's going to happen now with the law firm's pressure equipment. Will they continue to work in what extent and what the inspector will do with them, what their relationship will be. And finally, perhaps what's most important, when we talk about the state, the repression, to greet, is certainly, that first, first these shortcomings, if they're not serious nature not to be punished. Perhaps we should introduce, as you would say, when preventive technical tests of the vehicle or something, the entrepreneur may ask the inspectorate to carry out an inspection with him, a preventive inspection. Because entrepreneurs, when we talk about our entrepreneur, we talk about small and medium. You know, they're not like us in developed countries, people came up with an idea, so they studied it a little bit, and then they developed entrepreneurship. People have entered entrepreneurship out of despair. They were no longer able to work in jobs where they had worked and were forced to just get a job, and they were actually talking, and the economy ministry is giving a boost, I think the Ministry of Economy, for self-employment. You can't have a little baby eating steak, you need to eat a little spoon first, so in that sense, the citizens of this country have to understand that the state is no one's stepmother, that this country is here for them, at their service. And that's why I welcome this part, but to make it even more stimulating and for the inspectors to go into the field and warn people what they have to have, because really once, here I read, complaining, it's not enough to hang a fire extinguisher on the wall, but it's supposed to be written that it's a fire extinguisher. If he doesn't have a hook to hang his coat, he'll pay a great fine. On the one hand they jump out, here you see today or yesterday the second time in Vrbovac train jumped out, and on the other hand the inspector comes and looks, uh, at the bar, you don't have a back seat. 'Cause it's like we're all drunk and we're all gonna fall if it's not there. You understand, some things, and that's why people lose trust, you need to distinguish important things from this, less important, and in that sense, there's the role of the future state inspector so that inspectors don't just make the norm to satisfy the form. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99113	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of the Downworlder.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with fellow Members, I would like to refer to the part where you spoke about the injury at home and specifically pointed out twice in this regard also a very controversial provision in the law that we are considering. I'm giving you absolutely for law. The fact is that we also had a similar provision in the proposal for a law on the municipal economy, where the communal directors also wanted to be given authority so that they could enter the homes and business premises of citizens and finally the proponent gave up that provision by realizing that it is indeed contrary to the Constitution, so I would like to urge you to seriously consider this objection and that it is indeed a provision contrary to Article 34. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99115	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99116	Well, here's a little short, so thank you to Professor Podolnjak as a constitutional legal expert for supporting this remark, I hope the Ministry will consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99117	Next is the replica of the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99118	Thank you very much, colleague Žagar, you have already mentioned twice today how this article, paragraph 56, should be disabled, I think you said that and that is where you mentioned the reasons for painting. I agree with you, but for other reasons, I plead again for grease, not paint. So I suggest that you try to solve it in a way that you go with the amendment, so that there is no gap in the fourth paragraph, so let's say we put ourselves through the amendment to explicitly prohibit them from entering homes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99119	The answer of the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99120	Thank you, dear colleague Ronko, so here we see, I'm glad that you in that replica said a completely conflicting attitude. So, and such a possibility would be, here very briefly, one journalist commented about this Law on the Communist Economy, which Professor Podolnjak mentioned, when it was brought to the utility offices, it's a little bit like this, I'm not going to say ironically, but as he would call it, he said, so let someone in Texas try to get into someone's house.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99121	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be co-workers of Josko Klisovic, but he has no right to speak, so the next debate will be the respected representative of Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99122	Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to talk a little bit about the effectiveness of inspections and others who deal with similar affairs. Our inspections are ineffective. They punish the hosts for 10 kunas more or less in the register, but when it comes to big players, big corporations, then there's no punishment. There's no processing either. I have to repeat one case that's been going on for the last three years, four, which ended up being really bad, and it could have ended very well. A number of billions of kunas could be merged into the state budget, but due to the ineffectiveness of all those involved in both consumer protection and inspection and bank labour regulation, the fine that should have been around 10 billion kunas paid to all banks illegally operating in the area of interest rates. The Franak association reported to the CNB as a regulator, reported to the DORH as an authorised prosecutor, reported to the Ministry of Finance whose jurisdiction is inspections, matters related to non-contracting of fixed interest margins in over 100 thousand loans. For non-contracting a fixed interest margin, a penalty under the Consumer Credit Act is provided for from 80 000 to 200 000 kuna for the bank, i.e. a credit institution and from 10 000 to 50 000 kuna for the responsible persons in the credit institution. Since the state didn't want to launch anything, it started a few people, let's say a few, it's 700 infringements that have been initiated, initiated by the damages, authorized prosecutors and who have unfavorably completed the statutes in the High Court. Because of the long-term proceedings, because the state did not do anything, it all ended up out of date, however, the High Violent Court claimed that banks do not have to negotiate any margins. If the state had initiated these proceedings, perhaps the position of the High Court of Infringement would have been different, as the countries would probably have a slightly different way of formulating misappropriation and a little bit different initiating those proceedings. However, we have received moral satisfaction for what we have launched through these private procedures. They're not private, but they're by natural persons. This year, in March, in particular March 20, 2018. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia has confirmed that we are right. He confirmed that banks had to negotiate fixed margins. In a review of Zagreb Bank's application to the Supreme Court, which was dissatisfied with a private verdict. On the occasion of the audit, it was decided, among other things, on the limitation of interest claims. These statutes have been decided positively. The Supreme Court said there was no statute of limitations. However, in the context of this revision, it was also requested to decide whether banks had agreed after 2012 after the Law on Amendments and the Consumer Credit Act supplementing them, which regulated that banks had to negotiate fixed interest margins, whether banks had subsequently brought their business into line with the law in existing loans. And the Supreme Court has very simply determined what we have been saying for 5 years that banks have not brought their business into line with the law. Because in order to align it, they had to negotiate fixed interest margins rather than define and just send a notice to ordinary postal debtors. These 700 violations committed by people, natural persons, due to old age, ended up in the bones of those 700 violations, the indictments that ended the rulings against the banks. Only on the basis of these 700 convictions could the state budget end up with 700, 70 million kuna. Only based on those 700 procedures. However, the High Violent Court waited for all of this to go out of date. Infringement courts, these lower ones tried to prosecute sentences but the High Court felt there was no need to punish, the state did not initiate its actions and all this ended up in the basket. If we take into account that there were over a hundred thousand such contracts in which banks didn't negotiate interest margins, multiply it by 100 thousand kuna, and you'll see what the result is, 10 billion kuna. Ten billion kuna could have ended up in the state budget. We don't want to take the money lying on the road. We do not want to punish banks that take Croatian citizens. We do not wish to regulate these interest margins further, because last year I suggested that it be regulated, however, it was not resolved either. And in March this year's Supreme Court gives me the right and all of us who say that why we lay people who are not even legal professionals know better than the CNB, we know better than the Ministry of Finance, we know better than inspection, we know better than the State's Attorney's Office, which is illegal. How is that possible? Well, that's sad. I know why it's possible. It's possible because we live in a customer state, in a country where it's being set up in a way that people who would like to do their job in such a way that the job is done with maximum, professional and quality than we set up people who suit a particular party. There's also nepotism and clientism. It's all there. Nothing will happen by passing this law, nothing. The inspections will continue to be effective. Still inspection won't do what they do. And their job first and foremost is to find the biggest work gaps that are often intended. Because what the banks were doing was on purpose, it wasn't happening west of the Republic of Croatia. West of the Republic of Croatia did not negotiate interest rates without margins. West of the Republic of Croatia are not banks later if they do not agree on these margins then they voluntarily set those margins and informed the customers of that post. No, even in Slovenia they didn't do it and Slovenia was with us in the former state. How is it possible that it was not in Slovenia and in Croatia it was? Obviously, Slovenia is an organised country than Croatia. That's sad. Here, the law will not help to make inspections effective, in order for inspections to be effective, it is necessary to put in inspections people who have proven themselves by their work, their results that have a history behind them that shows that these are people who do their job at a high level. People who allowed and here I mean all the institutions that mattered in this sense, who allowed banks to first negotiate illegal interest rates, secondly, to prevent it from happening later on, and thirdly they did not punish the banks for what was happening and they had a civil initiative that kept warning about it and reported it. Such people are not able to work either in inspections or in other bodies involved in such affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99123	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99124	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Alexic, I fully agree with you that banks must also have obligations and comply with the laws and simply have to be punished. But the truth is that these 20 years they've had one fertile soil where they could do whatever they wanted. And they were working. Of course, despite all the problems we have, the debtors themselves who naturally took some loans and didn't know what was going to happen to them. Banks that transactions take away from our entrepreneurs and me personally and all of them are very little and rude. Not to say every transaction is charged. An example of a bon printed from your file takes 140 kuna from your computer. One employee's hour is 30, 40 or 17 kuna, 20, how much the company pays. But the entrepreneur pays it 140 kuna for something that his, his data and of course, it's by my robbing entrepreneurs and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99125	Thank you. Answer, the esteemed representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99126	Thank you. After 2 years of talking about it here in the Croatian Parliament, after the verdict in the collective case of Franak, after the Supreme Court decided what I was saying in my debate, you say the debtors are guilty. Debtants are not even a little guilty of having negotiated a unfair interest rate with them, and for later on being self-determined, outside the contract, and for not being able to prevent banks from doing so. It's not the debtors' fault, it's all our fault and you're more guilty than the rest because you're part of the government. So you're guilty of me and I'm not guilty because I keep warning that I'm not guilty because I keep warning that it's wrong. You're one of the culprits why banks behave like that, just because you as part of the government let it happen instead of fighting to keep it from happening anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99127	The next debate will be, and I'm sorry, the next debate will be the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister Horvat, we are, my former party has brought Lex Komadin and made a mistake. You are now bringing Lex Mikulić and you will make a mistake. Trained by the experience of what we've been doing, I'm afraid the same way you want to do the same thing now. The State Inspectorate Act is only adopted to get Andrija Mikulić to sit in the place of the state inspector and for nothing else because there is no reason or reason to believe that the existing structure of the inspectorate or inspector is changing and that the State Inspectorate, which was the position of corruption, nepotism and the place where the law was not implemented, is being re-arranged, but where things were being negotiated under the table. I note that in the former State Inspectorate, the State Audit never entered. You don't have any State Audit findings back 10 or 15 years, so there was no State Audit at the State Inspectorate. So it could have happened that the State Inspectorate had its place, the building he was in, paid 35 euros per square square of business space, which is 5 times the usual price. It also happened in the State Inspectorate that the information was leaking, so at the time the State Inspectorate was disbanded and the inspectorates were formed by the ministries, here's a story that depicts the situation that was in the State Inspectorate before, and that was one of the reasons why the State Inspectorate as it was imagined was disbanded. Work inspectors went into inspection somewhere in the summer, then it was 2013 and 2014 in inspection in the summer months, so early in the morning in the morning, in tourism, so somewhere in Dalmatia, they gathered at 4 o'clock, so they left at 6 o'clock in the morning, so there they were, the aim of the labour inspection was to see who works in bakeries and all those who work, who have night shifts. When they returned, they found their tables, and shared with other inspectors, they found their tables a little scattered or apparently colleagues were looking for a list of employers whose labour inspectors were leaving to inform them that their inspection was coming and that something was going to happen to the inspectorate again, as defined. One of the remarks was when you have a single state inspectorate that then you have all inspectors in one place, that you will be able to do a lot more reconnaissances etc., so here is the data, in 2013, the former State Inspectorate has made 84 000 copies and 35 000 violations have been found. The deformation of the State Inspectorate and the pooling of data from all inspections in 2014 has been carried out by 92,000 controls and nearly 50,000 violations have been identified, therefore more than when the National Inspectorate was unique. And when it came to inspectors and people who do inspection work what they thought about the State Inspectorate disbanded, then it was a very clear attitude to do better because the inspectors didn't do anything but specialize. The inspectors also passed the security check, the inspectors have an obligation to meet their property cards. To point out that before security checks were found in the State Inspectorate, there were also people who didn't belong there because of their work and actions that would be on the other side of the law. With this law, you bring things back only for one man but it will lead to the fact that there will be no plant, but then you, obviously, want to better control employers in HDZ so that they can recalibrate them because the State Inspectorate as it is, will be a place where under the influence of the ruling party things will be dealt with differently than they did today. And especially the problem of the article 56 is entering homes. Home is protected by the Constitution and home is sacred. And I don't know why you don't want to continue with the practice that we have now, where customs have been given the authority to control illegal activity because that's what's most important at this point to control illegal activity and why we now establish hot water, when in countries that are much better than us and much more organised there is no state inspectorate in this form, here, just to mention Germany where that labour inspectorate has been separated from the State Inspectorate and is located at the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System. Of all the countries of the European Union, only Croatia will have a labour inspectorate in a state inspectorate, while all other countries do not have it or are in the competent ministry, Ministry of Labour, or are located as part of the Parliament. The Polish Labour Inspectorate chooses, so Parliament chooses. And it is absolutely certain that this Law will not achieve what should be achieved, which is that illegal activity in Croatia is contained, that the work on black will be curbed, that the tax ejaculation will be curbed, but you will have another inspectorate that will be something that will be something for employers, or employers not at hand, but obviously some particular employers will have more control than others. And I'm sorry that this has taken place, and what I would ask Minister Horvat to tell us very clearly then is why all the inspections in the Republic of Croatia are not entering the State Inspectorate in all the ministries, because, as we see, some inspections remain part of the ministries for obvious reasons. And it says that then this law as such is not about rounding things up and the state inspectorate being different than to first ensure a pressure measure or a system of pressure on employers, in which way we could even pressure them even more on the other hand to get certain persons in the first place, here is Mr. Mikulić, someone who will sit in that workplace to allow there to be a state inspectorate. I hope you will write this Law more wisely, that you will enable, if it is already going, and you will probably vote what you have now predicted, but I hope that you will use the experiences of the world and in the second reading you will give us a law that will look much different than now and what I am saying, using the experiences of the regulated countries that have very clearly shown what, which is the benefit of being a state inspectorate in such a form as you suggest is not effective and will not lead to what should be done, which is to prevent illegal activity and work on black in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99129	The Honorable Representative Anton Kleman will be replicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mrsic, so you only caught one kind of inspection, which is this inspection for work, but what you mentioned is that it's not good, I'm holding exactly that it's good that most inspectors need to lower their powers to a level, for example what you said was not good, and that's what has customs powers that they can enter apartments and control various forms of work on black. Among other things, I'm only going to give you an example at the Ministry that I was, so two years ago, a tourist inspector who, for example, is now in Istria only 5 in our most tourist region, I can't control the work on black. Now you can know the frustration of an inspector who comes to control a man who has a neatly reported activity and next door is a neighbor who works on black and he can't come to his property, ask him for health what he says, to bring him into order, but to call him an inspection, so Customs, on some other ground to determine it instead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99131	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99132	Dear colleague, home is invulnerable, it is written in our Constitution and cannot all enter our homes. With this law, you allow all the inspectors who have the authority to enter our homes will fall to you in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the problem you point out is the problem, but for this with the tourism inspector, the tourist inspector goes to Customs, therefore Customs has the authority to enter your home and control and it will fall to you in the Constitutional Court. Home is harmless, you can't give all the inspectors that authority, he has the right to enter where by law he is, but he has no right to enter my home. And that's something that this law, if it stays like this, will lead to inspections still not being effective, and this will fall in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99133	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Minister Darko Horvat will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99134	Thank you, Vice President. Well, if I start from the very beginning, I'm afraid that those who have certain replicas and remarks here are gone, but I think that, as with one address, he's brought down the horror of it to three key details. But before I apostrophef them and state in which direction we will prepare another reading, I want to be clear here for both the Croatian public and all together to say that this is one of the reform laws, and for this reason we have also insisted that we conduct it through two readings just to have one such constructive debate and possibly get at least a few out of it, and I must admit that we have received only a few good comments. But in the Croatian public, and primarily in the entrepreneurial sector, there is a very large controversy, and I took the right to do so in 2014 when the state inspectorate abolished the reactions not only of the media, but of the public as well. I quote: “But since inspectors are scattered into 5 ministries, this means that one visitor visits as many as 9 inspectors, one controls the price, another kitchen, third fish, fourth remaining diet, fifth staff, sixth cashiers” and so on. In order to eliminate and prevent such things from being eliminated by an uncentralised system, we want to make clear to the system where the fish head is, and where the tail is, with one careful planning, but to create a legislative framework within which such planning will be possible and we want to make it possible, under one cap, under one house, we have everything that can be treated in any way as an economic part of inspection control and with the will to be synchronised, and primarily against entrepreneurs, therefore the real entrepreneurial sector, such inspection findings will be as little as possible, and then they will be as efficient as possible. On the other hand, we send a clear message to an article of the law defining that inspection supervision is not only and exclusively a repressive measure. I agree with the honourable parliamentary representative with your proposal, and we will consider it carefully, so when we are in force between this educational component or any other and any other ultimate, repressive, so the solution that must ultimately be given some punishment, the purpose of the existence of the inspectorate is not to stop the punishment of entrepreneurs. Especially those simple, easy violations that can be removed on site, which can be removed by the time the solution is written or which can be easily removed several days after the surveillance has been carried out. The only controversy here today that was led was in the direction of whether part of the construction inspection was partially separated, yes or no, so we have the view that, as we have done in law and handled that part of the construction control of the inspection that is in the hands and which is the right to build and build permits or to confirm the construction projects of the issuing state, that the state is also given a certain right of control or inspection control. I'll repeat again, if we weigh gradually, what part of the inspection surveillance we're holding in the department of construction, four words, four inspectors. We have clearly explained the ingenuity and responsibility of creating a legislative framework over a very sensitive area, which is the area of food, therefore, in the Ministry's capacity to establish a legislative framework and implementing acts, i.e. the right to conduct inspections until certain shortcomings are recorded. Whether we are ready at this time or ready to be organisationally prepared to bring the inspectorate together in this form, therefore, a very clear message to those who meet this matter for the first time today. All this year, the public and professional debate takes place, on this particular subject, public consultation, electronic consultation that lasted 30 days, a set of objections sent and sent to the Ministry of Economy within that electronic consultation, a large amount of them that has been apostrophe and adopted just so that almost all this year we are dealing with this topic precisely with desire and intent to come, not to the consensus, but at least close to the consensus that we need a state inspectorate as a single institution, clearly certain ingenuities and agree here with you on controversy, whether the structure should be the subject of law or concrete structure should be subject to legal acts and this will be the subject of analysis and therefore we will take a month to re-emerge the revised law, not radically in these parts of which we discussed today. I must admit and I am glad that this debate today is being conducted and this law is apostropheed as a technical law and, but honor to the individuals who have jumped into this one politically strange domain, I here with full right, but also with full responsibility I can say and give the answer that this law is not a legitimate law, this law is not written for anyone and this law first sets up Croatian entrepreneurs. We have accepted the making of this law in order to facilitate repression, to stop collecting and subtracting the number of inspections carried out, but to underline and withdraw a clear fence and line between those mistakes and mistakes that happen by no means, with the difference between those who are part of the intention and those who have sinned and have made it easier to make mistakes without any intention, we will give them the opportunity to fix that mistake without punishment. For those who, with the occurrence and frequency of such errors, intend to do so will be subject to a very clear punishment. And so thank you all very much for all of my colleagues' suggestions, looking at 5.6 pages of paper, we'll go back to the ministry, do another analysis, I'm sure that part of your proposals will be absorbed and installed in the legal framework and very quickly appear here with another reading, with the desire and intention of working in parallel on changes and additions to other laws, finding space, an adequate space within which we will form the central State Inspectorate, pending changes and additions of one other law that must happen in order to establish a new body in the system of state administration, a new central office, after which the government will then be able to appoint the head of that State's body, that it will be at the level of the State Secretary, so that we can then sublegal acts or the Internal Affairs Regulation can work with joint forces, including those people who will be avert and who will deal with specific affairs. With that desire and intent, I thank you once again and, secondly, I welcome you, we will see each other very nearly on other topics but I am sure and very quickly with another reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99135	Thank you very much. And your presentation has re-provoked several replicas, so it will be the first to be the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99136	Minister Horvat, while there is no political will to fight corruption, no law will help. Secondly, you are not telling the truth enough because this Law on the State Inspectorate has nothing to do with it, what you said would enable employers not to be punished immediately but to be warned after that. It must be in laws that regulate the criminal provisions. This is already in the Labour and Labour Protection Act, over 50% of the infringements are a warning and only then punishment. Therefore, it will not solve anything because the inspectors will act according to the laws they have so far. And that is why this is only for you to catch your staff in that vertical that will be created in that new inspectorate headed by Mr. Mikulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99137	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99138	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like only briefly if you can look back on whether you will adjust the coefficients of the inspector's salary, coordinate the way in which building inspectors who have significantly higher salaries than others are equalised in a way that you will raise others to the level of building inspectors or you will lower them to the building inspectors, because I think that inspectors are significantly underpaid in relation to work that they do and if we take it I don't know, judges who could tell a similar story, they are almost twice as paid as much as the inspectors themselves, and I think that all inspectors should have higher salaries than they do today, so I would only like if you could briefly look back at it in this work and my remarks were probably written by your associates because you were not there, so I expect until the second reading of the other observations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99139	The answer of the esteemed Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99140	Thank you, Your Honor. Exactly, again the subject, only that the topic is not the subject of the law but sublegal acts, but precisely in the direction in which you gave your replica, we are thinking, because already after the first reading of this concept has passed, we must send a letter to the Ministry of Finance in which we will look for a new chapter in the 2019 budget, and already within that, those resources available today in the ministries within which the inspection services are located, we will ask that these funds be increased precisely with that reason that after the Assembly of the State Inspectorate, inspectors would have adequately paid jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99141	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99142	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, therefore, I agree with you, you have reiterated that this is a technical law. What is important to emphasise, this is about extremely professional jobs, professional jobs that require a high level of knowledge from our inspectors, and in this direction goes and continues here is fellow Djujic's replica. Do everything and sublegal acts to make and pay these people adequate and to enable them to improve professionally, to in some way be precise with these rules that people are constantly changing and that they can have knowledge, especially in terms of what you have pointed out and I have said in my previous replica. Inspectors must be in the service of developing entrepreneurship, it makes sense, the second everything will be just a cost and will further deepen the mistrust of citizens in the country's institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99143	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99144	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you said that you would look at all remarks in the ministry which is commendable but I believe that they will not review and give opinions to those who missed the tender for those in Sinj where the criteria have been changed and without public advertising where they are approved, the criteria in the price have been changed, so where 10 million kuna is therefore more expensive public procurement. And we didn't get answers to that either, and that's a bad message if they're going over these proposals, bad messages to future public procurements, mayors, mayors who can also change the criteria of price and reference ratios and that furniture is being competed. I think we should be much sharper on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99145	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99146	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian, and for this replica, she has nothing to do with the subject, but she would not like to remain unsaid. So, you called me here twice today for something I just didn't do. So called that I gave an opinion on the finally implemented public procurement system in the city of Sinj is yours or misinformation or incorrect information. Therefore, the public procurement in the city of Sinj had two steps, in one case a cancellation of the tendering procedure was made. I wrote and signed that no irregularities were observed in that part of the public procurement, in the procedure of supervision of the public procurement procedure in question. That act was sent to the city of Sinj. Afterwards, the repeated public tender after which the contract was concluded was not subject to supervision by the Ministry of Economy. You've given me the parliamentary question, and I'll answer it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99147	My friend Bulj, you're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure that's what you want? Don't abuse it, please. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99148	You president know in advance what I'm going to say. He hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you hurt 33 because he told the truth. You gave your opinion on public procurement, but you didn't give an opinion at the city council's thematic session. Is that why the criteria were changed, and who changed them? For what? That 10 million kunas more expensive public procurement was obtained, instead of 23 million 33 million kunas. And you support such public non-transparent acquisitions. You didn't answer with this what the city council asked of you,... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99149	So, fellow Bull, you've exceeded your time. You've exceeded your time and of course it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I'm giving you a warning. We will now conclude the debate on this point and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99150	Proposal for a Law on State Inspectorate, first reading of PZ No. 459, the proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal of the State Inspectorate Act and secondly, any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the votes, 75 votes ZA, 31 abstentions and 7 against them, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99151	And we move to the next point, which is: - Proposed law on textbooks and other educational materials for elementary and high school, first reading, P.Z. No. 451; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Minister of Science and Education Mrs Blaženka Divjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99152	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, respected representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you for the opportunity to explain this proposal for a law on textbooks and other educational materials for the primary and secondary school that is before you and which is actually a significant example of the reform processes in the Croatian education system. And I'm going to start by saying a few reasons why it's like that, and then I'm going to explain it further. First of all, it's because it promotes the autonomy of school and the autonomy of teachers. It is something that is particularly apostrophe in the Strategy, Education, Science and Technology because it is the teacher who manages the learning and teaching process, the textbook is the means used by one of the means that can be used and the student must be at the heart of this process of education. Secondly, it promotes a secure digital transformation of schools and thus enables the acquisition of the digital skills of students, which is also apostrophe in Strategy 5. Then they release textbooks of unnecessary facts, which means definitely and easier bags, by regulating and reducing the facts about changing concepts that are now based more on learning outcomes and not on content but also relieves the physical weight of the bags themselves. It also dissipates financial students or their parents because for the first time, something we call the highest price of textbooks per class is determined. So at the highest price, so we're not getting into a competition just setting the upper limit. As to the quality of the procedure we are now introducing here, this proposal is one transparent but simpler procedure than the one that provides, above all, independent reviews of textbooks on the one hand and on the other, a transparent way of choosing which goes in one cycle, so we are sure that this will ensure a higher quality of textbooks. Of course, this bill of law as it is given is very much in favour of the students and their parents, it is in favour of teachers but definitely incurs the different interests of those who have direct benefits from the current textbook market which we need to know that at the level of the year when the choice is made, the direct choice is about half a billion kuna. And that's why here I'm really asking you distinguished MPs and MPs to be aware of what we have and different, so I'm going to use the free dictionary to tell the spins. And we need to understand what objections to this Law are justified and which remarks that especially when we listen to what is said come from those who do not have a public interest in the first plan. So we understand and respect that there must be and there must be a business interest, but it must not be an obstacle for students, teachers and their parents to be relieved and to deal with the situation in such a way as to benefit them. In the process of drafting this bill, we included different stakeholders in the commission and we also ensured the possibility of direct contact in addition to public or e-consultation and on the panel where we heard the observations of all those involved in the process, and we did a certain research at European Union level on this issue, which is approved, as well as what experience we can use in Croatia, so we specifically used the experiences of Austria, Slovenia, Finland, Denmark and Germany where it was applicable. We must, of course, say that there are systems where the process of approving textbooks doesn't exist at all. So, Finland does not know the system of approval of textbooks as we do in Croatia, as well as the approval process, the review of work notes is also not part of the system that I have listed. However, we continue to have a textbook approval procedure in this law, only in this case it separates the approval of textbooks that must be complete from something that is additional educational materials. Although this Law is short, it has all 20 articles, and looks at the first look simple, however it is layered, because it completely changes the concept and therefore it needs a new law, and it changes and uses a new paradigm of learning and teaching with respect to the principles that come from the strategy which I initially said and which is going through the whole law, which is that first of all it is the teacher who is the bearer of the process, he manages the process of learning and teaching, the textbook is the means, one of the means that he can use, and the student is the one that we have to put at the heart of the process and around that concept we really have to do all the efforts to make the student active. To keep the student active, not simply to use the textbook as a means of transfer exclusively effective knowledge. I will now go through certain concepts that appear in the law, not exactly through concrete articles, but this representation and monitoring of the structure of the law itself, so you can follow the articles. So, the aim of this law is to ensure, improve quality and the process of approving the selection of textbooks for primary and secondary schools in line with the strategy and in line with the principles of curricula reform. What was seen over the past period, since the entry into force of the current Law on textbooks and above all was the rigidity of this catalogue of mandatory textbooks which did not allow the inclusion of textbooks for new programs or textbooks for example deficit programs that appeared after the closure of the catalogue, resulting in the fact that, for example, we were for professional programs, textbooks that were mostly less published, left outside catalogues even though they had to, need and use. Then the long procedure for approving and selecting textbooks with this draft bill is shortened and simplified, and by the example of many European countries, we are closer to Slovenia, Germany, Austria, at the level of the state only textbooks are approved, and a set of textbooks and belongings, not a set of textbooks and complementary teaching tools as it has been so far. Which definitely resulted in the situation that we have in addition to the textbooks having, for example, a work book, and a collection of tasks and ballots, which is not only a great burden for some items, but also a great burden in the financial sense and a great burden, given that these additional materials are not shown to stimulate in any way what we want to stimulate, which is also shown in all international research that this should be pursued in the education system, which is primarily about solving complex problems, critical thinking, thinking and creativity. It's on the list, so these first three, so three of the most important competences. As regards the definition of textbooks, it is defined here as an educational material that serves as a whole source for the achievement of all educational outcomes established by the curricula in question, as well as expectations resulting from inter-species topics for each class and transport. The content and structure of textbooks must enable students and independent learning, acquisition of different types and levels of competences, as well as evaluation of adopted educational outcomes. Why does it matter? Because of this, in this way we encourage students to learn about it, or metagenics, that they are able to self-evaluate their skills, which is an extremely important feature for lifelong learning and therefore, later and education, and enables them to prepare for the evaluation that is then part of the process of evaluation and evaluation at school. For the first time, we clearly distinguish or introduce a printed textbook and textbook in electronic form, with three different versions possible, meaning a fully printed textbook, a combined textbook consisting of an electronic and printed part and a fully electronic textbook. However, the price applies equally to all three cases, meaning that the above price to be defined, the highest price to be applied equally in all three cases. The fact that for the printed part of course we are still introducing some other elements that I am about to describe, above all, the maximum permitted mass of all textbooks of mandatory items, so that from 1 to 4 classes is this maximum mass of 3 kilograms, which is on average of 10-15% of the average weight of students, and that is according to the recommendations of the World Health Organization, that is, from 5-6 is 5 kilograms, of 7-8 maximum of 6 kilograms, means for mandatory subjects, with the fact that it is expected to be and lower when it is in realisation and in practice of course it would mean that even some other equipment that students have, let's say that the equipment for physical education, it's not a textbook, it's not in this weight, but it's expected to mean the weight of these things that we have now said, and in this way we limit them to other equipment, so it's not the only way that the benefits of the whole way that we have to use of the whole concept, and the whole program, the whole, and the whole of the whole of the idea of the program, which we's the whole, the whole, the whole of the whole of the program, the whole, the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole of the law, the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole of the day, the day, the day, the day, the day, the money, the money, the whole, the whole, the money, the whole, the whole of the whole of the money, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole, the idea, the whole, the whole, the whole of the whole of the whole of the whole of the idea, the idea, the idea, the way, the whole, the idea, the idea, the whole, the whole, the whole, the idea, the idea, the way, the way, the way, the way, the way, the, the way, the whole, the whole, the way, the whole of the way, the whole of the way, the way, the, the, the, the, the, the, the way, the, the, the, the, the whole the, the way, the whole, the In addition, the highest permitted mass, the price of the textbook set is introduced by the textbook, which is from 1-4 classes of 10% media pay, in 5 and 6 12.5 respectively, in 7 and 8 15% of the media net salary in Croatia, which would definitely be expected to be the price of the mandatory textbook set, for class teaching, to be realistically around 390-400 kn, which is in line with the experiences that we have actually taken into account. For example, in Austria, there are 50 euros in the classroom, i.e., I think 90 euros in the follow-up. So that, too, we must be aware, when we talk about the price, that our prices, the highest prices that are apostrophe in this law here, are comparable, even more than the Austrian prices, but now that the required textbooks are added and this allowed amount, related to other mandatory materials, is lower than the existing prices. So they're lower than existing prices. Of course, we kept that printed textbooks, are generally intended for many years of use, so this proved to be a good model, but they can have an electronic supplement, which can't be more expensive than 20% of the price of textbooks, which is also appropriate, because electronic supplements, electronic textbooks can be much faster, better and easier to change, or what we heard on the board, for example, is that, of course, they can correct photographic errors much faster and easier and, of course, that one flexible form is also advisable. As regards other adjustments, it should be said that the maximum price allowed and the mass of textbooks does not apply to textbooks adapted to students with difficulties, such as the maximum permitted mass does not apply to teaching textbooks in the language and letter of national minorities, if they are imported from the country of origin. There's been a lot of debate about whether or not we can limit the price of textbooks in this way and whether we can get into something that has often been called artistic and copyright freedoms. However, we need to know that here art and copyright freedoms should be understood in the context of this, that it is a part by order, about textbooks that must be consistent with curricula, which must be consistent with standards with norms, and in that sense it is not an authorial work in that full scope as it would be something that would often be compared with the textbook. So that's one thing, another thing, based on the application of the Competition Protection Agency, and we thank that application, it's good for us because we got the answer, very clear that limiting the highest price does not affect competition, so it can be introduced in this way. We also need to be aware that this mass is something that we can look at physically and in dispensing from unnecessary facts, because, as I said, we have now come to, that students carry increasingly difficult bags, have more and more, besides textbooks and other materials and that, in fact, there are no special reductions or changes in concepts. We are now insisting on changing the concept and on the meaning of these elements that I was talking about. As far as the market share itself is concerned, I said that it is at the level of the textbooks and workbooks market for the primary school of about 300 million kunas a year, and if we add both high school and extracurricular resources, we talk about half a billion kunas. So we need to be aware that there are great financial interests in this business and we are aware that we have made an effort not only to assess the maximum price but rather to make comparisons with similar markets in Europe. What we haven't regulated in this sense are secondary schools and professional subjects, and because of a large number of different directions and subjects and many specialized courses that are not actually covered in textbooks and where we want to make additional efforts to actually encourage those who are related to a particular vocational education, for example through regional competence centres, to engage in co-financing, and on the other hand to actually co-finance the acquisitions of these textbooks as a means or through scholarships of students who enroll deficit directions. As for another topic that has also caused a lot of public attention, a new bill, we open up space for professional textbooks, for which there is very little interest in printing such, printing, preparing such textbooks, corners. They're being prepared by schools. And because of that, we have a high-priced problem. So we want to stimulate business entities that are related to a particular profession to engage and participate in the design of textbooks in terms of co-financing, such specialized textbooks and accordingly, we want to enable, therefore, one way that Slovenia has and works very well, that if the textbook is co-financed, then that business subject has a chance on the last page, only on one page means putting his logo, which connects it with that textbook. We believe that this is very important to allow through regional centres of competence and in this way participation and employers in the preparation of students for the modern labour market, because let's not forget that this vocational education has major problems with textbooks and that we have textbooks that are 30 years old in the catalogue, so they belong to museums more than the catalogue of modern textbooks, well, I'll just mention two examples, here which we've drawn from the breeding of caged birds and Croatian traditional hairstyles, means textbooks 30 years old, for which, of course, there's no interest in making new textbooks, so neither can such textbook be made without significant co-financing, because it's very small reports that are related to certain professions. It's just like here's curiosity to see what this problem is much wider than what's often particularly apostrophe, and that interest that's focused on general education. As for co-financing of textbooks that are a significant financial expenditure of each household, here we open the possibility that the Government co-finances textbooks for embedded groups of textbooks and thus ensure access to education especially in secondary schools is important, but equally so that many municipalities, cities and counties have already been involved in co-financing of textbooks, so that this system continues to be balanced. At present, we have done an analysis, so we have the information that in the Republic of Croatia 4 counties obtain on their own or in cooperation with cities and municipalities of textbooks for primary school students and that in this way about 60% of students in the Republic of Croatia are covered, if we add that we still have 30 cities and municipalities that partially subsidise the purchase of textbooks, but so here we are already in the budget proposal for next year, and here I trust your support in the Assembly, to ensure a significant increase in resources for co-financing of textbooks. We also intend to provide more resources to co-finance the digitalisation of the educational process, which is an important step in transforming the school system and which is also foreseen by our strategy. In particular, I'm going to explain now the topic that I think is very important, which is why this separation of the catalogues of compulsory textbooks from repositories with other educational materials. So now in the catalog they have a textbook and a supplemental teaching tool, which would mean that apart from, I don't know, chemistry textbooks we still have a workbook from chemistry. Most teachers, here's what we've talked about on the sections, prefers a collection of chemistry assignments. What does that mean? That the student must buy a textbook and a work book, and that, of course, the basis of the teacher’s request still buys a collection. So because this workbook cannot be left out, because it is thus, therefore, possible but never left out, because it is thus classified. So we now have a special catalogue of mandatory textbooks that are reviewed by the basis of the procedure that is prescribed in this law and these mandatory textbooks, as I have said, can have either a form printed, or a form digital or combined, means in combination and there is a virtual repository in which both commercial and open other educational materials are found. So there can also be a workbook and a task collection in that repository, it is not open and of course if it is commercial, it needs to be bought, but it exists in that repository with open materials that other teachers can make and who pass a single content check of the Agency as a assumption of entering a virtual repository. Furthermore, we respect the autonomy of teachers to find other, mostly open materials, such as Tedex, or some video materials that are now quite popular for example, I don't know, instructions by Tony Millun, related to mathematics, can also be used, but must be written in the school curricula. So, that's how it's set up and in law, and once again, nothing is done just saying, if you chose the textbook, it doesn't mean that you have to have a workbook or a collection or something else, but you can choose something that's in the repository that's been checked, regardless of the commercial or open materials, it means free materials. By not exceeding 20, 30 and 40% of the price, depending on the class, these selected teaching materials should not exceed 20, 30 or 40 % of the price. In this way, it is, in fact, putting in order that the total price when we add to the textbook and other materials along these fences will be smaller, so it will be smaller than it is so far, but it also allows freedom and autonomy for the teacher to make that choice as he thinks it is most suitable for his class. So, as I have said, non-commercial educational materials that are not in the virtual repository can also be used, but will be decided by the school by putting them into school curricula and, of course, this autonomy, apart from freedom, carries both the responsibility and the quality of the content used. And that's actually the first step in approaching these trends that brings emphasis to school autonomy. We are still quite rigid, even with this law if we consider that in this process the Finnish people who at the state level actually don't regulate anything, don't even regulate the approval of textbooks. As far as the assessment of other educational materials is concerned, it is also put into this law and the evaluation of textbooks is actually similar to what was so far the only thing shorter, simpler, and something that I think is extremely important, and that is that the 3 independent reviewers who give independent reviews are, therefore, not known to the promoters, the promoters. So what was the case so far was that actually when the publishers got the answer, they got the names of those who reviewed them, who reviewed their textbooks, it wasn't good practice. We are now introducing that these reviewers, so their names are secret, but when all selection procedures are completed then at the end of the year, the list of all reviewers in all cases but not according to concrete materials or textbooks is placed on the web pages in order to be transparent that we are sure that we have this type of security, and of course they can use it for the purpose of progress to review textbooks. Here I will, at this point, end this presentation because I am sure that you will have more questions, and in the debate we will answer some more things that you think need to be clarified and, of course, all these constructive discussions, the remarks are welcome to us and we will take them into account and we will thank and thank the debate that has been held by these two committees on the meaning of the very procedure that has been carried out so far and, of course, on the parent board on education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99153	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a longer sequence of replicas. Let's start from the beginning, first respected representative of the Sladolov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I have a question as to whether anywhere in Europe there is a way, this way of calculating, the price of textbooks as you have presented, whether you have used foreign experiences. And as a mathematician, I'm asking you if you think that a collection of math assignments is a quality tool for sending students to primary and secondary schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99155	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99156	Thank you very much. Yes, I said in the introduction that we used quite extensive European experiences specifically from Austria, Slovenia, Finland, Denmark, Germany and of course we have documented it. As for the price limit, I said an example of Austria which, for example, for class teaching, is what is paid 50 euros per set of textbooks. Here, that might be a good example. And as far as the math assignments are concerned, we have two answers that, or two types of answers. First, the math in the lower classes is so far and so will be the work textbook. So mathematics, Croatian and foreign language, that's first. Secondly, the task collection itself can be a commercial collection of tasks that you buy or may be a collection of tasks that are open type and located in the repository. And believe me, as a mathematician, I have a lot more confidence in that if there is actually a historical evaluation in a larger repository where tasks are used than if the benefit of a finished collection is done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99157	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99158	Dear Minister, I'm interested in one thing. This topic of digitisation is a serious topic and that it is sufficiently unaccessible and the fact that materials can only cost 20% of the price of textbooks. I'm also interested in how much VAT is on digital textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99159	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99160	So look, first of all, we need to know that it can be a complete electronic digital textbook and it has the same price then, or it can have the same price as here we're just talking about combined mixed form. So we have to tell the difference between these two things. Of course, the VAT problem on electronic editions if only electronic editions is something that is being solved and at EU level has caused a lot of debate. As far as I know, this topic is still an issue at, therefore, EU level. And he's unfortunately today that VAT on electronic editions is 25%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99161	The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99162	Thank you. Dear Minister, why do we have to have different textbooks, why do we have to let more publishers do this? Why? Why wouldn't the state have a strategy to have one textbook for a particular class in elementary and high school like it was before and make it all digital and free? For what? And we have a free market in public education. Some in private schools buy whatever they want but in public education I am against the free market, the free market is not good for that part of the job and we need to go back and do what we had before, have in all schools the same textbooks for certain subjects and work on them. And I don't see any problem in it, digitally, for free, increase if you need a tax for that purpose and pay those who do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99163	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99164	Thank you very much. Yeah, that's one of the models we've been considering, and I have to admit, there's a lot of advocates out there. Of course, you must know that it's a completely different concept than what we have now. So first of all, the selection is significantly reduced, so there is one, one single textbook for all and the European practice that we have analyzed shows that as for quality itself and therefore what needs to be done in modern schools is better to have a certain kind of selectivity. So in that sense, we have consulted but I agree there are a lot of advocates of what you suggest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99165	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99166	Thank you very much. Minister, you said free textbooks for elementary school students in as many counties, but it should be of course throughout the Republic of Croatia because children are all the same. But you mentioned here and the socially endangered children, but this year you forgot 8 thousand children socially threatened by the abandoned PR about your program, the projects you forgot the 8,000 children most endangered, paid them textbooks. Give me an answer as to why this happened and why you had no responsibility first to yourself. And tell me in what way you're commenting that we didn't get an answer to the question today, who in the curriculative reform reviewed history, mostly part of the Homeland War. Can we find out, because a lot of people are asking what our kids are going to learn at home war schools and who's going to review it? Whether they're strangers or anyone, about the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99167	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99168	Look, all the information you're looking for right now, I did, I spoke publicly about it, I apologized first of all for a technical error, why there was a delay in this provision, that is, a decision that was supposed to be in the government, it was made in the meantime, and all the funds that were requested were now paid. So that's the first thing. The other thing about the history review, I've said it more than once. Among other things, the Croatian Parliament, which is that the review of curiculum in history worked by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, and besides the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, we received a review of the curiculum through the Bavarian Ministry of Education. Here, that's what I kept saying and what you have available on the web pages, it just needs to be opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99169	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99170	Thank you, dear minister, you have called for Finland, here are two books from Finland, this smaller is a textbook, this is a larger work library. The reform of the education system in the Republic of Croatia should go towards that, that this textbook, which is actually a dry-cutting fact, is just something that is secondary, and the determination of verification and feedback, the knowledge of students, should actually be in the larger book. And even the size of it is shown to be more dominant, which is kind of a work book. You are in your reform woke up one morning and decided that your concept will actually be completely different, you don't need work notebooks, you don't need a collection of tasks, we'll give you an electronic platform, on which some will work their materials, and some may well earn. It is important that we justify the meaning of the existence of an electronic platform, and that our students may suffer, because this is extremely important to them and their students, and teachers elements in the teaching process, to no one, you don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99171	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99172	Well, I'm sorry, ma'am, that you're having a debate again, which is a lot of arguments. First of all, as far as working notebooks and task collections are concerned, we have not abolished, it is simply not true, it is necessary to read carefully what is written in the law. However, it is still said that the textbooks are working characters, and of course when we talk about digital platforms, which you mention or choose to be more specific or you really have to admit that you don't have any special arguments. The digital platform, i.e., is a virtual repository on Carnet, so it is public and has been obtained and produced by EU funds. So, ladies and gentlemen, he's free of charge for everyone and on that platform can all those who give their material to the previous check agency be on the platform. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99173	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99174	Thank you very much, dear minister, so I'm curious as to what reason the composition of expert committees that choose school textbooks is secretive, and when it is already secretive, how it will ensure its secrecy, whether members of the commission may not know each other, so that they can give each other away, if necessary, about the conflict of opinion, etc. However, an even more important question, if the composition of this expert commission is secret, how does its independence be ensured? So, who's in charge of one expert commission? So we don't really know anything about them, and they're going to decide on a transport worth several hundred million kunas, since the textbooks are worth four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99175	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99176	Thank you very much. That we actually follow the scratch as it's common in reviews of scientific reviews and panels, so it's common practice. Of course, members of the commission know about each other, but those names will no longer be available to those who are textbooks. Honestly because you're not doing pressure on RCZ, so that's the first thing, I think that's clear. And these experiences show and we even had a direct and public consultation and, of course, in different panels an opportunity to hear about it. So practice is the same level of review that is common everywhere, they know each other, but according to the publishers, according to the promoters, they, their names, are not known. And in order for the public to have, after the whole process, an insight into who the reviewers were, we will publish and it also says in the law, a list of all reviewers of course not necessarily who the textbook reviewed, but everyone will be on the list and such a list will be published on the web page.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99177	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, Madam Minister, as far as other educational materials are concerned, here's my personal opinion, that it wouldn't be too bad if they went through a lot of reviews, I think the review ensures quality, compliance with those scientific knowledge that you often mention, so I don't think it would be better to go through that full procedure and textbooks not through these accelerated and simplified. But I have another question, so you mentioned a curricula reform. As we know, we are now in the process of experimental application of the school's life program. It is also foreseen that the frontal introduction of curricular reform be from the next school Mr. Now this frontal introduction should also be based on the evaluations of the experimental programme. Since the experimental program will not end until the 6th month. At the end of the school year, how you think to implement this evolution, that is, not you, but it should be carried out by an independent body, to which it is a legal obligation and a national external evaluation centre. I'm just curious as to how you saw this process and how you're working with an expert task force that's also connected to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99179	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99180	Thank you, there's a lot of questions for one minute, so here's a brief, as regards checking out a certain content check and for the meaning of these other educational content there are other educational content, only after, is the deadline for the Education Agency to check out and then they're only in the repository. As for the evaluation, of course the evaluation should be and it goes for three basics. One is the evaluation that has to be carried out because we have contracted 150 million kunas of European funds and agreed on the assistance of the European Commission and the first part has already been carried out, so at the beginning, the report will be after the New Year. Secondly, of course we have an evaluation of three topics that have been specifically reflected in the public call for experimental schools, which means raising the ability to solve complex, or problematic tasks, then the satisfaction of students, the motivation of teachers, to prepare the complete instrumentation of the National Centre for External Evaluation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99181	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99182	Thank you, Vice-President, dear Minister, well, somehow in your opening statement, I have a first question and an introduction, you often call for foreign experiences, so my question, side of experience, side practice, is how much effort you've put into an analysis of our practice, that's one thing, and when you're talking about foreign practice, then you often call for different sources, so you mention Finland, which is extremely liberal, you mention Bavaria, extremely conservative, so it seems to me that you have one look at a little bit in one law, in another you have a very different view that we're going to have of a very, very confusing situation, if not already very, very, very, very confusing situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99183	Thank you, the answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99184	Well, it's a good termology, it seems to you, it should be read, so you'll see that what I said at the beginning that we've analysed different practices, but we've also respected a certain tradition that we have here in Croatia, which is that there's actually a review of textbooks at national level, so we don't use a Finnish model that doesn't have a state review for textbooks, but, for example, we're using an Austrian model to sort of shape the price, and as far as our home practice is concerned, this is now our domestic review practice and we've analyzed it. Of course, there was an expert commission consisting of different stakeholders, who were working on it, and we also had a very wide discussion and public consultation and panel, and I am sure that we have been able to make this law even.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99185	The next replica is the respected representative Dragana Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99186	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. The electronic part of the textbook or electronic textbook may be modified without the procedure prescribed by this law after the end of the school year in which the textbook is in use and before the school year begins. I am interested in whether or not parents will be charged for modified editions or will be available for download on handheld computers at no extra cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99187	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99188	Look, these changes are something that we really are, if we want to use to have electronic textbooks, then we have to let certain adjustments be made. Here we are now on the Committee when we discussed this very many examples that there are incorrect data, wrong solutions in the textbooks, and that you do not actually have the ability to change the physical changes, and you have the possibility of changing the electronic textbook. So in that sense, then you think about those technical changes that can happen or, for example, you have some simulation that needs to be fixed to work better, and that part means, that's the technical part of the changes, and in that sense if you have a textbook that's only electronic then all the rules apply to an electronic textbook that includes the maximum price, if you have a combination, then this electronic part makes 20% within the price, means not at the total price of the textbook and actually that total...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99189	Thank you. And the next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99190	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Minister. This Regulation shall enter The constitution says that man's freedom and personality is inviolable. When we talk about personality, it personally bothers me, Article 5(4), where perhaps on the last cover of the textbook, you could write that someone gives wings or no worms in our tree. That's not good. Watch out, move that item 43. There should be no commercials in the textbooks, that's against it, I think it can offend the personality of some people. I got a commercial from a utility company in my time, so I didn't feel like it. Don't do that, get the commercials out of the textbooks isn't their easy place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99191	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99192	Thank you very much. Basically, it should, of course, be taken into account that it says here that it is a promotional material for professional items in which it is briefly represented by a legal person who has produced or heard the textbook co-financed, and whose activity is closely linked to the professional subject for which the textbook is produced, which would mean, if you have, for example, the employer who needs CMC operators and wants to co-finance which is mainly as I have shown are very expensive because they are a small number of copies being produced, mainly by either schools or small publishers, then it is possible and thus only on the last page can this promotion material be put in place, and such a provision has, for example, in Slovenia and proved to be very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99193	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. Here, according to the reports so far, we can estimate that without a replica, it'll last up to one eight, half nine if they don't give up some people who have come forward, but let's start with clubs as usual. The first Club of Representatives will be the MoST of Independent Lists on behalf of which the respected representative Marko Sladolev will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Before the debate itself, I would like to say that our criticisms will not be directed directly at the personal ministers and that we would not want any criticism in this House and press conferences that it is considered as a heiting towards the ministry, so we want to be constructive, we showed it in a parliamentary debate in the Law on Education and Education where we have proposed 20 amendments, none of them are accepted, we will commend what is good, here the CERN entry is certainly commendable, we will criticise what is bad, so 8,000 children who have been cut off in some way for a time is bad, the acquisition of 6000 laptops that are unusable is the same, so we want to understand finally in this Assembly that both from the Most and colleagues from the SDP and HSS and probably from HDZ, and all of us, we are aimed at better education for our children and that no one does not have to criticise the work of ministers or the ministry. But let's go back to the bill itself. We believe that this law shows that a quick and reckless solution that will not lead to a shift in Croatian education, although the introduction notes that this law will solve the problem of heavy bags, boost the digital transformation that MOST has advocated, must be disappointed to conclude that the solutions offered are another shot into the blank. The weight of the school bag should be resolved by innovative curricula documents that should have been relieved of unnecessary content by the new proposal of the captain, by organising the schedule, and all of this would be better solutions than simply removing work materials from our students' bags. Consciously digital transformation into the fact that each textbook will have a digital supplement without clear criteria as considered a digital textbook, it could lead us to a textbook with a link to YouTube. To avoid serious access to the subject, the proposal also confirms that these materials must cost 20% of the textbook price. It does not comfort the fact that VAT is a digital book still 25% and that nothing seems to boost quality digital publishing and I must note that MOST in tax reform will give an amendment to digital publishing, to reduce their VAT. Such legal provisions dimming quality authors to deal with the writing of textbooks. Are teachers expected to create working materials for themselves in the same week’s responsibilities and for the same salary? Are schools expected to get toners and photocopy paper when they have no other basic means of hygiene at school? What is common to teaching practice in successful education systems such as Finland, Japan, Singapore, Shanghai and Canada is that a significant part of the time in continuing is devoted to all students understanding what they are learning, automating reading skills, writing, calculating, which are the preconditions for developing more complex levels of thinking. In the context of Croatian educational practice, a work book, the collection of tasks is an unforgiving link in learning because with the help of tasks, questions and exercises, the student is able to understand what he is learning. Teachers reveal student microconceptions that facilitate understanding, contribute to the automation of certain skills and develop a divergent opinion, introduce students into critical thinking. Elimination of working materials, or transfer of work materials to other educational materials, is contrary to the goals that students are constantly stressed will critically think and develop our skills. No country in Europe has in its law a formula based on which prices are calculated, and no law prescribes how many grams a textbook needs. Such provisions violate entrepreneurial freedoms and destroy the development of competition. Part of the teaching content in life schools must be in digital format in order to encourage students and teachers to use tablets in the follow-up. Teachers in selected schools had compulsory education in virtual classrooms and the ministry committed themselves to ensuring the need for infrastructure in order to get the project started properly, but many schools were still not adequately technical and staffed for the use of digital textbooks and were asked about the success of digital reform. The tablets in most schools are not yet in operation and if the project cannot be applied to 74 schools, what is expected for us in full application? Will this digital transformation lead to even greater differences between our students and what does the Law on textbooks serve? The textbooks should be thin and cheap, will our knowledge be thin and students cheap labour in Finland, Denmark and Germany? Prior to the adoption of this law, infrastructure was to be made for all schools, equality for all students guaranteed by the Constitution. Teachers' education not only online but also live, clear structure and instructions about what materials they need for a new successful school and before applying this law, we needed scientific evaluation of curricula documents and we think that in the womb of this Trojan horse there are unfinished curricula documents that should be revived and entered into all Croatian schools in this way. If we were going to make a move in some way, we should have set a standard that publishers need the quality of textbooks to have, so that they would really last 4 years, not to fall apart after two years and have to buy a new one. What I would like to point out in the debate, and what I find dangerous is copyright and inequality between publishers of printed and digital media. This bill provides for the purchase of digital textbooks every year and in a faster procedure and thus allows for privileged... a digital media publisher on the market compared to print media publishers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Article 16, commercial materials are chosen exclusively from virtual repositories, I find this problematic because digital materials on You Tube are published every day and the teacher can learn about some new, interesting, useful material in one day, therefore it is too limited to use only what the school year has previously enjoyed in the virtual repository, there the teacher should have autonomy, of course, taking into account compliance with the educational objectives. This is another example of static and outdated law. There is still a question of whether a teacher may use materials from You Tube located in a virtual repository. Article 19(1) shall punish schools if materials not determined by the school curricula are used in the follow-up. There is a need for clarification because this is a potentially dangerous item, is the intention of this point, for example? Disabling the propaganda of the balancers or hitting on the creativity of teachers and potentially both. Article 5(4) possibility of placing a legal person’s advertising on the last page of a professional school textbook. This represents a precedent and opens up many questions, which are subjects, which are textbooks and who will do and how to approve. There is even a question of the meaning of such laws in the 21st century when there is redefinition of ways of learning, teaching and educational materials, we are generally a pre-normised society and a pre-regular society, we add more normative. We are afraid that this law will once again bring the main burden of funding to the professors and that this law will confirm the old thesis that teaching work is the only occupation where you steal from home to carry to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99195	Thank you. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Bedekovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99196	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Minister Divjak with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, here is the proposal for a law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school in first reading. This proposal was in the first reading, as already stated and discussed by both committees, parent and interested, so the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, as well as the Committee on Legislatives, and here we have already come a little bit into the issue of this law, so it is, in fact, textbooks and supplementary teaching facilities, i.e. the means used in primary and secondary schools and at first I would like to point out that this issue has already been regulated in the Republic of Croatia by the existing Law on So-called basic and secondary school textbooks which took effect on 2 March 2010. And so far, this law has only had one amendment to date, and this change when it comes in a little bit, and when it looks a little bit more structurally than content, and therefore, at the debate in our Club, when we were preparing for this legislative proposal, so much for how justified it was, and how much it took, because of the fact that the existing law had only experienced one change, I say structural natural, how much it was necessary to approach the making of a whole new law and how much could be regulated under the existing law, therefore, by amendments and additions to all that was the subject of this legislative proposal. Now, of course, we leave it, and we said that we would leave the proposer to think, which is, in front of us, a new law, here, although we think it could, therefore I speak in the club's possession, that they could change and supplement the existing legal provisions, the existing law, and the more this legislative proposal, the more it said, as it was in the introduction, and the minister herself explained, edits, first of all, the process of listing, approval, election and withdrawal from the use of students and additional funds. It is then further regulated to regulate the authorisation and use of auxiliary teaching tools for primary and secondary school students and also the problem of financing procurement, so textbooks and additional means of development, among other things, in the means of the state budget, while the intention of the new law is to contribute to a better regulation of how textbooks and other educational materials are approved in order to monitor the real needs of the school system. Further contribute to the editing process of approval, inclusion in catalogues, elections and withdrawals from the use of textbooks and other materials and of course the issue of editing issues related to the changes in textbooks that are foreseen by the reform of primary and secondary education and education and, of course, it is also intended to facilitate the school bag and ultimately facilitate the digital transformation of our schools and bring them into the stage of digital maturity. Now, if the law is analysed a little bit further then it can be observed that this law regulates, as I said, the catalogue of textbooks, the minister is given the opportunity to open the catalogue when it comes to mandatory textbooks and complementary teaching tools, each year for individual classes and programs with the intention of facilitating the adaptation of catalogues to the real need and, of course, we welcome, this way the procedure is facilitated and in fact the catalogue is allowed to open. Similarly, the possibility of inheriting printed textbooks that are not of a working character is ensured, although inheritance has been made possible in some former times. It also shortens and simplifies the approval procedure, selecting textbooks. Now, what I personally do as a profession, and here, we discussed yesterday, so I support it, unlike the previous legal solution, there is no longer any obligation to choose and use textbooks in order to enable teachers to have greater autonomy and creativity. In the teaching process, which I think is good, only in detention, so practice will show how teachers will approach it and how they will manage it. The law regulates selection and approval procedures in the same year within 6 months. and since January of June, with the use of new titles by September. So these deadlines speak of flexibility which we also welcome. In addition to the mass of textbooks, its weight, the law regulates the maximum permitted price of textbooks. So, these elements, if we put them in the law, it seems that in one way or another, we cement them, and that, it seems to me that, in particular, regulation, determination, the prices of textbooks are the categories that are subject to change, so that we are the attitude and we think that these contents would be more of a sublegal act, i.e., regulation, or textbooks of the standard, than to be defined by the law and thus, in one way or another, and we believe that these contents fall within the scope of the sublegal act, i.e., regulations, and that it would be better and better to regulate them by regulation than to introduce them into the law, so more so as to me, if there is, let someone correct me, that there is an example in the world that the law of textbooks regulates the mass in terms, the weight, so that I do not know that this more subject matter fit for the rule. And if, therefore, we analyze deeper certain provisions, proposals, so, the new law, I'll just go through the articles, so, from art. 3. where the concept of textbooks itself is defined as basic material, which serves as a whole choice. So there's the difference between the existing law, where the only textbook, becomes mandatory teaching material, while everything else in the workbooks, collections and everything else is put in the category of additional teaching content that can be commercial, but can also be in the digital repository. And I would also say that there are two sides to the medals, on the one hand, this can be considered a good move in a way to relieve not only students, but also parents of paying for additional content, and then on the other hand, if you are looking at it from the aspect, which is, indeed, that the workbook is a collection of tasks, indeed, an integral part of the accompanying material of a textbook, and that, indeed, when prepared and written by the author, it is, therefore, formed on equal doactic methodical symmetrys and follows a particular textbook, then asks questions, why, therefore, especially in specific teaching subjects, such as the torn language of Croatian language and some other mathematics and other objects which are so specific as to separate the work book, collection of tasks or some similar material and say, the textbook is not necessary. So we'll see again what practice will show us. It also defines the concept of a printed and electronic textbook with clear elements that must satisfy both. So it's defined, therefore, the existence of a textbook standard, so, as a kind of regulation with all the formulas for calculating the most permitted price and mass of textbooks, as I have already said, so we consider it a surplus in the law, and we think that it belongs to, the floor, more appropriate to the rule. Of course. 6th, the procedure for modifying the catalogues of approved students with all their flexible access and with all the deadlines, which we consider to be in order and with all the documentation attributed to be attached with the application for registration in the catalogue. Art. 7. procedure to determine the compliance of textbooks and with the curricula concerned and the teaching standard and mode of work, the way the expert committees, which are reviewing which they evaluate, evaluate the textbook. Thus, it also contains, regulations or obligations to sign a declaration, which is guaranteed by a member of the expert commission, or declares that it is not in any relationship with the author of the textbook. So, on top of that, what we think is still an important article. 10. which detailedly prescribes the procedure of selecting textbooks, making decisions on use, deadlines up to which legal persons, publishers, publishers are obliged to ensure availability. So, for example, Articles 11 and 12 prescribe the possibilities and means of using textbooks, in the follow-up, in the language and letter of national minorities, which are exempted from these elements, which we consider to be good and adaptable precisely to the needs of our students, members of national minorities, for which textbooks must most often be translated or imported from their countries of origin. Very rarely are written in the language of the letter of the national minorities, so today we have talked to the committee so that it would not be bad to work on teams, experts who would shape textbooks precisely for national minorities in their language and letter. Similarly, Article 12 provides for the procedure for providing textbooks for students with difficulties, as well as for gifted students as we consider to be in order, which we consider to be the good side of this law. And as much time as it allows me, I might briefly refer to the process of reviewing textbooks as mandatory content and all the additional contents that are no longer an integral part of the textbook set, and these are work notebooks, task collections, all other auxiliary materials, so we have two different approaches. The textbooks go to expert reviews and get approval afterwards for use, while all other materials only go to the opinion of the Educational Authority, I would say it's the same two-part sword. It may not be a bad way to implement the same procedure for accompanying materials because the agency only gives an opinion, so I think this review process might contribute to a better quality, but here's a second reading can be considered. And, of course, the final articles from 18 to 22 prescribe the jurisdiction of the educational inspection to carry out inspection and then the transitional and final provisions set out in the last articles of the law. Here and finally, I would just point out that this legislative proposal really harmonizes the needs of the design of textbooks and other means of teaching, educational content, the digital age in which we live and, of course, we have to adapt to the time of the 21st century, and that is fine, but we also feel the need to stress that, regardless of this, we need to strengthen the quality and value of the printed textbook, which, by the very provisions of the law, we make it possible to use it for many years, as well as the digital content with the fact that when we buy it once we buy it, then when we pay it further free of charge, the digital content for each year of use must be paid for, therefore, must be renewed, but here I will do something more in my individual debate. So do not forget the need to empower the printed textbook, after all, Croatia has a good and rich tradition of quality designing printed textbooks and should not just ignore it. Finally, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this legislative proposal and, of course, we expect that all the comments given by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture are equally respected and, of course, we expect the ministers to be read by the next reading that our comments will be accepted and incorporated into the proposal in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99197	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDSS on behalf of which the respected representative Dragana Jeckov will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99198	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister with his associates. Since the entry into force of the applicable law, basic and secondary school textbooks have seen a number of problems with the closed catalogue of mandatory textbooks and related supplementary and teaching tools which therefore did not allow the inclusion of textbooks for new programmes or textbooks for deficit programs that appeared after the closure of the catalogue. This process lasted 4 years, so we had a closed catalogue and the adoption of a new law would certainly contribute to a clearer and more quality arrangement of how textbooks and other educational materials follow the real needs of the school system. The law regulates the procedure of approval, inclusion in catalogue, election and withdrawal from the use of textbooks and other educational materials for students of OS and SŠ. It is also necessary to regulate issues related to changes in textbooks provided for by curriculative reform, OS and SSH education in order to facilitate the school's bag and enable digital transformation, as we conclude, and the intensity of this law. The bill will also include textbooks only in the catalogue, and while complementary and auxiliary teaching tools become other educational materials, as we have had the opportunity to hear, the practice of countries, advanced EU countries will be used. Commercial and other educational materials will be located in the virtual repository, and will pass the verification of the agencies of compliance of other educational materials with scientific principles and ethical norms that they are pedagogical, psychological and didactical methodical for use in the course and that they are consistent with the outcomes of the curricula. So this is the first step in approaching modern trends in Europe that promote the highest autonomy of school. Furthermore, as far as we had the chance to hear, the Finns and the Danes went, so here we are now trying to take advantage of their good practice. Other digital educational materials that will be co-financed by the State are also encouraged, and the co-financing of textbooks for certain social categories of students will be maintained. The possibility of using free other educational materials that are not formally approved will be opened, but will be decided by the school on their use, or teachers, in accordance with the requirements of curricula and autonomy of schools and teachers who are thus promoting the strategy of education, science and technology. The new law will allow the Education Minister to open a catalogue each year for individual classes or programmes to adapt it to the real needs of textbooks. The Ministry's pages state that the decision on the choice of textbooks and related supplementary educational resources is made by professional agents, with the prior opinion of the Council of Parents and with regard to the acceptability of the prices of the selected teaching funds. My question is how to determine exactly these real needs. I believe that one multi-year analysis and evaluation of textbooks and other educational materials in use should be envisaged. Will it be the duty of professional agents to collect data from the field, process them and interpret them? Article 6(1) of the proposed law states that the Ministry of Education therefore intends to amend the catalogue by making a public call stating which textbooks can be submitted for applications. After the textbook has been in use for at least 4 years unless changes in the curiculum require an earlier change. Changes in the curricula or judgment of the ministry of initiation are actually from above but the observed shortcomings on the ground we have from below, the unadjustment of textbooks to the needs of teachers or teachers, therefore the student will be transferred to the ministry. Therefore, according to which criteria other than these evaluation changes, the curricula will be determined after e.g. Four years if a new textbook is needed. So it's one of the concerns we've seen in this bill. The law defines the highest price allowed and the mass of textbook sets per grade, and that is certainly every endeavor to reduce the weight of the school bag, and certainly n as parents are interested. Both the price and the mass of the textbook depend on the number of hours of items per week. The law provides for the possibility of inheriting printed textbooks that are not working characters. The exception are individual subjects in the classroom of primary school where this is necessary due to the development of skills in pupils. Other educational materials that are autonomously selected by teachers or schools whose total price cannot exceed 20 to 40 % of the total price of the set depending on the class are defined. About the price of the textbook, I'd say a few sentences in an individual discussion. All other educational materials will be located in a central and virtual repository where teachers can leave their comments and reviews but can also report irregularities. In the case of members of national minorities, Article 11. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and Article 6 The Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities of the Ministry shall be bound by the obligation to establish and adopt a part of the Educational Plan and Programme, which shall include, in addition to the general part, a part of which is related to the specificity of the national minority. So the native language, literature, history, geography, visual and musical culture and art. In cooperation with the institutions of minority communities, develop a programme and ensure its application in schools. In the past several times after this speaker, it has been pointed out that the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities when it comes to education has been difficult, inconsistencies with the reduction of resources for textbooks and special forms of teaching. There have also been delays in the design of curricula and programmes, the production and approval of new textbooks without which there is no quality teaching in the language and letter of national minorities and we have warned of this problem and asked for consistent application of the Constitutional Law to national minorities and the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities. Qualityd curricula and programmes can be expected and implemented including, therefore, close and necessary cooperation with teachers and teachers from the ranks of members of national minorities. In realising the mandatory curricula and programmes and the national group of subjects of the national minority they have so-called. built-in content up to 30% relating to national history, geography, music and art culture. When it comes to the Serb national minority so far, no captain has been defined for such content and the contents are not defined or we do not have written curricula for these items and that is the problem we will deal with in the next period and as you know we are talking intensively about these topics. We note that the problem of the C model is also very serious because the program has been in use for more than 20 years and there is no official authorisation or printed textbooks. Today we have a better situation and a new curricula for Serbian language and culture has been written, so these days his debate is completed and we expect that approval will go speedily so that we can write author's textbooks and propose them to the ministry for approval. It is important here to highlight the need to co-finance the whole process, the price difference for both the Serbian language and the national group of cases. Article 11 of the Law regulates the use of textbooks drawn up in the language and letter of members of national minorities and I believe it is necessary to provide for and regulate the possibility that exceptional cases of the Minister of Education may authorise the use of a new textbook for members of national minorities. In doing so, I feel the need to say, we need to say when it comes to programmes, when it comes to the Serb national minority, so children learn in the same way as in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. So there's no import books. These are therefore exclusively approved programmes by the Ministry of Education in the Republic of Croatia. And I just get the impression that there's a wrong perception in public about the subject. So these are RH programs that are just translated into native language. When it comes to this legal proposal, I have a few misunderstandings. So when it comes to working textbooks, there is no provision for the possibility of succession and these are mainly textbooks for foreign languages, textbooks for gifts and textbooks, i.e. for students and students with developmental difficulties. According to Article 12 of the application for the authorisation of the use of textbooks for students with particular educational difficulties, they may submit each year, irrespective of the public call until the first March. If most textbooks for students, i.e. students with developmental or learning difficulties, are of a working character, as I have said to foreign languages or gifts, can be limited to a subject or two, although they are proposed for more regular changes, is it not, in fact, students and students with developmental difficulties and their families in a more unfavourable situation? Furthermore, the law provides for the possibility of using electronic and printed textbooks, I consider it important to master writing by hand, assembling whole texts, meaningful structures, using pens and paper. Writing is not only a language and thought exercise, but also an engine which is relevant for the development of a child. Electronic textbooks should therefore consider introducing them into the first 4 classes of OS. Furthermore, in Article 6(5) of the proposed law, the applicant shall be required to make an application for a public call for an amendment of the textbook in the catalogue to the electronic textbook for 4 persons or 4 copies of the printed textbook. Summary of the concept of textbooks with an indication of the content of methodical resistances on which the textbook is based in approach to the development of student competences. A statement in the language and graphic order of the text and a statement by the responsible person that he is responsible for all errors that occur in the textbook and that he will remove them at his own expense. The applicant should also be asked to analyse the textbooks in relation to the existing, i.e. an explanation to improve the quality of teaching by including that textbook, i.e. from a scientific, psychosocial, methodological and ethical point of view first. So compared to the textbooks that are already in use. Furthermore, the catalogue contains the names of the reviewer who carried out a methodical and professional review, and more importantly, I believe that it should contain a review or at least a summary of the review. Thematic units or titles of the chapter should also be classified within the textbook in order for the catalogue to be passable in the search. These are just some of the suggestions that we have seen, well-intentioned suggestions that we hope this proposal will really improve and in the second reading we hope some of our proposals will be appreciated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99199	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative, Rechimer Varda, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99200	.../Special disfellowshipped./... Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I have little experience from education as a member of the school board in the OSH and one SS in my time, but I have tied this bill and my debate to that debate we had in the Assembly when it came to the purchase of information equipment for schools, when I pointed out the need for this information equipment not to be obtained segmented by schools, but uniquely in accordance with the public procurement law, and the result we know. But I would like to start with one of the statements of a respected minister that technology is yes, ideology does not. I agree with that, actually. In Article 5, I think we're talking about what must be the content of the textbook and that's all right. However, this bill also shows that technology is a driver of the Ministry of Science and Education, and digital transformation should be a long-term process that should certainly be supported, but at the same time make sure that all students will have equal opportunities and be equal to the right to access the content guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This means that every school needs to provide Internet, devices for all students and teachers and now, I don't know if the ministry, proposing this law, has any information on how many schools there are no possibility of using technology because there's no Internet in classrooms? The ministry's response can say that this is the responsibility of the founders, but I believe that this is a shared responsibility for all of us and it is extremely important to disable the new division of society and inequality among different developed regions in line with the demographic and educational objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Do all students at home have access to the Internet at the end of the line? Are we creating this proposal for a new inequality law in society if we say that there are no more workbooks and that children should practice on pills? The announcement of work notes to other materials is, in our opinion, wrong and this assessment should certainly include the expert public. Violent relief of school bags in such a way that they are thrown out textbooks and work notebooks is not recorded to me anywhere in the world, and how long should students be nailed to screens? Personally, I don't think Article 4 should legally determine the weight of a school bag because there may be a change. Only 5 grams, you have a provision that's in the end line... The firm provision of the law, any change of five blankets, objection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it can be settled by the minister's rules, without any provision in the law or even the price, even the price. It can also be regulated because the market does its part, do not put into law what does not actually belong to the law and what is subject to change. This proposal also reminds us of the decision to remove objects that build the personality of our students by saying that students only need practical skills, equates them with machines, attaching them to pills, encourages the creation of a zombie generation that no longer knows how to communicate with each other, and what we are in the ultimate line of witnesses every day, just walk on a tram, bus, on the road and everything will be clear to you. You'll get it all figured out. However, I am openly asking a clear and loud question on the basis of which experience you propose these changes. A colleague named Tomislav Sokol has been shot in the srid, according to an article. 13. you say the provisions of this law do not apply to the use of textbooks and the implementation of experimental programs in schools. Item 1, please, there's no evaluation and you can't even have it until the school year is over. So what you now have in the experimental program, in schools, is actually what the content of this law is. You don't have an evaluation, and you're suggesting, already, the adoption of this law, because you've also ordered textbooks and workbooks for experimental implementation and you have no results yet and you're making a completely different bill. So what's the experimental exercise for? Shouldn't it wait to see what materials give the best results or speed in making decisions, it seems only as if opening up space to tech vendors to get into schools. If that's the case, then this club will be against this law. It will be against this law, regardless of the first or second reading. So somewhere to be very open, there's money going around somewhere, but unfortunately, not for the benefit of our students. And finally, once again on Croatian specialties, divisions and inequalities. Where do we get the right to deny Croatian Jacuzzi the right to education if you want to and raise in the fullest sense of that word? Education under the same conditions. Once before all reforms, we will meet the conditions for everyone to be available with all their advantages and opportunities, for each school to have the Internet, for every home to have the Internet, and before that no school will leak, that no school has a meadow instead of a sports hall. The students, teachers and teachers must be in the first place, not public procurement participants, equipment sellers, and in the end, we politicians. The Party of Labour and Solidarity Club, reformists, independent MPs will make a decision before voting alone, that and will support this law first reading or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99201	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative of the Goddess Makar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99202	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, today, we had this debate from our colleagues in science and education, we had a layman, who I belong to, but we all think we have something to say about this subject because it's about children, it's about textbooks, it's about raising our children. However, I am surprised now that it is said that something is happening too quickly, that we have too fast the introduction of a school for life, that for experimental implementation has not been prepared, that we should wait, that all in Croatia, all schools, all children have the same technical conditions to be in an equal position. So we have to wait a few more tens of years for all our schools to be renovated, built, to install into them everything that some already have, to keep everyone in one shift, so that we can move on. At the same time, we all feel that reforms are not going and that nothing is happening, so there are little two contradictions. We in HNS are giving absolute support to Minister Divjak for the implementation of those reforms that she started and we support her in her efforts, so to continue, and now I am specifically saying something about this bill to textbooks and other educational materials for elementary and high school. This law is certainly an improvement compared to what we had so far, because in 2010 when this law was passed, we had real problems with the closed catalogue of compulsory textbooks, and where it could not be changed, if it was a need to change some work material, but it had to be completely changed and it was a long procedure for the approval and selection of textbooks and this proposal for a new law reduces what should certainly contribute to faster and more efficient publishing of textbooks, i.e., these materials for basic and secondary schools. Furthermore, this draft law will allow the ministry only textbooks and the fact that the minister has already highlighted the example of many European countries, such as Germany, Austria, Slovenia, Latvia, Portugal, while some countries do not know the system of approval of these materials, as we have heard, that is where Finland belongs, and this should be a step closer to those modern trends in Europe. What is good, that the use of these materials will be decided by teachers, in accordance with the requirements of curricula and autonomy of schools and normally in line with the strategy of science and technology education. There has already been an emphasis on the importance of teachers, perhaps teachers have lost their dignity over the past period, at least that's how they feel. through the past period, that's at least how they feel. But with this we really need to restore the teacher's importance again because it is the teacher who manages the process where his textbook is an auxiliary tool to reach and reach out to the student who is actually the goal. Because in fact, the student is at the heart of this process and the teacher must best present knowledge through that textbook and teach the student how to apply it further. Here we have then to define for the first time the highest prices and mass of textbook sets per grade. So we have that from 1st to 4th grade it is 10%, 5th and 6th classes 12.5, 7th and 8th grade 15% of the media net salary in Croatia. There was a debate whether it was a good solution, whether it should be regulated by this law, whether it would be better to regulate it as well as the weight itself by implementing rules. Maybe it wouldn't be too bad to discuss it yet. It would also not be bad to re-analyze between the first and second readings of this coefficient whether they are exactly as they were best affected in this proposal or perhaps to see it a little more and to make some estimates in that part and calculations. We have and we know that the textbooks as a textbook in the printed edition at this point will not be abolished, they will remain and there is an unwarranted fear of our publishers that something will no longer be done. It will continue to work and they will all be able to apply in the public tender under the same conditions with the highest price in the public tender and normally those who will be the most favourable will be selected. We have all debated here and there in the assembly several times in the media, and even the minister received a heavy bag once at a time from our dear colleague. And when we talked about how heavy our bags were, our children's bags. I'm sure that's not the main problem, but it's the problem. If we see that the World Health Organization is concerned about how much weight children should be to wear or to wear, it is certainly important. But it is also important that the mass of the textbook should be adjusted and depended on the number of hours of the course and the total weekly hourly, and thus would be balanced. And what we find extremely good at this bill is a solution to ensure the possibility of inheriting printed textbooks. We all know what it's been like so far. Some textbooks and some cities and municipalities had agreed with schools that even now all the textbooks that could be used were being used and transferred from one class to a class that went to the same class next year and that only the difference was bought. It really was a savings and a lot of help. Because we like to say that we're socially sensitive that we're trying to get demographics for us, the demographic image isn't what it is. But we need to show you some concrete things. Well, I think this part of it is that less separation for those textbooks is precisely the possibility of inheriting one crucial step in all of that. And what might have been really a lot of words here, and we think at the HNS Club, it's very important to adapt to the digital age. And the good are these solutions that are proposed here, we really think of them as commendable. However, the same is the part, which is the VAT on electronic editions, which remains 25%. I know that it cannot be changed in the Ministry and education, that it has been resolved in the way it is, but since the proposal for this law first meets one significant share of these, such aids, meaning in electronic form it should be seen that the same VAT is in line with this VAT applicable to the printed form. As I said at first, the HNS certainly supports this bill. I'm sure the Minister will consider everything that was here today in the debate from the other colleagues and what we have indicated on behalf of the club and that by the second reading we will certainly have an even better law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99203	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Sabina Vosovac will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99204	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Unfortunately, I wish I could say respected education ministers but you're increasingly turning into a minister of information and digitisation, each day you stop becoming a minister of education more and more. And I'm afraid that's in favor of this proposal, and I'm going to dare say, at the very least, a confusing and suspicious law. Fortunately, the law is in regular procedure, fortunately that this is only the first reading, and I believe that you will hear the voice of the MPs, hear it in a way that you understand it constructively, not as an emphasis on yourself, your personality but as an appeal to you to think about certain solutions and to really look at what can be done in the bill's proposal, which can even from the public debate in the proposal in the public debate be implemented, and that this law is more in the interest of the Croatian educational system, in the interest of our school students, and I don't know who in the interest of whom, I would have detected, but I won't give myself the right to express my doubts, but some solutions in this law are at least comprehensible and open this law in such a quick way, which is also a colleague of Varga warned, completely unadjustified and not in accordance with certain educational processes that you call reforming myself, and I'm calling them in this matter of reforming the law. But I'm not surprised because you didn't follow the procedure when you passed this law and you put the draft law on public consultation, but you failed to take an extremely important step in the procedure of passing the law, which is to respect the Law on the assessment of the effects of the regulations and the statement on the assessment of the effects of the regulations put on public consultation. Why does it matter? Because, in fact, through this public consultation on the statement of impact assessment of regulations, you should give an explanation of the analysis of the existing law, which is what is wrong with the existing law, why do you think it is necessary to go into the new law and which areas of the new law you want to regulate. You have legally in adopting a normal law-making procedure, and I find it so strange why in such a quick way, without respecting this procedure, this bill comes before us. We're going in a row now. The very fact that the law has 22 articles and 270 remarks tells you a lot about the law itself, and I have studied careful public consultation, and I do, so these are not the sprawls we know about in certain laws where certain groups are very well organised and then they take certain sprawls and actually put legitimate pressure on certain legal solutions. You have 270 remarks on 22 articles. I will single out some of these remarks, they seem very real, very lifelike, come in some part of my parents, but most of all, from the people you swear that children are the center of the education system, and they are system holders, and these are our teachers and teachers who live daily practice, who live on a daily basis on existing curricula and programs, who live daily textbooks and are certainly the most relevant for assessing certain legal solutions. Well, so it doesn't turn out that Sabina Glasovac has something against Minister Divjak so it doesn't turn out to be something that the SDP, as I would say, regrets that he lost power and failed to move certain processes, so here you are now doing them, and we're not happy with that because you're doing the steps. I'm not going to use my opinions in this part, but I'm going to sign what I'm going to read from public consultation. Let's first do this part that you say is innovative, that you prescribe the weight, the maximum weight of the textbook. It's an incredible proposal to determine the weight of the poor man according to the Captain's case, what about the content? Respectful, determining the permitted mass of textbooks is similar to determining the price of the brain per decagram, it is not a Zagreb green market to sell books and other materials to go to kg, such as fruit or vegetables. The more quality the textbook will be printed with more clear graphic materials, the more interesting it will be for students, and they will prefer to learn from a quality printed copy than they would learn from paper-printed material, close newspaper paper. Many schools do not have the funds provided for photocopier paper by the founders, so teachers often have only workbooks and a collection of teaching content repeat assignments. As far as weight goes, we've got another one kilo of fifth grade textbooks. At the time, one parliamentary representative replicated an opposition that claimed to threaten us with a brain drain with a famous statement: The brain outside is worthless, the weight of the brain is 2 marks. 20 years later, the Ministry of Science wants to legalise the use of textbooks in schools according to their mass. You've made an amazing gaff. The conditions for using textbooks in schools do not determine the mass, but the quality of their content. Remove this nonsense because you embarrass yourself and the whole country, nowhere in the world there is a criterion of the mass of textbooks as a condition for its use in schools. There are more acceptable ways to reduce the weight of school bags. And the last one I'm going to single out about this part: I wonder if somewhere in the world the weight of textbooks is prescribed as to how many grams may be pursued by individual textbooks, work notebooks and working materials are necessary for the implementation of certain teaching content. All these remarks were noted by your answer. Now let's go to this second part where you have decided, I will repeat, cancel the workbooks as part of a mandatory textbook set that has so far been in the Croatian education system, along with textbooks made up one designed whole that has helped enough tools for teachers in the teaching process. According to this proposal, the technical culture textbook would be reduced to a script that only matters if it has a small mass, and the working materials teachers should probably collect around or extra weekly burden on their parents if they allow it. I find an extremely bad bill of law that violates what has been set up in the past 10 years as a good standard and a prerequisite for maintaining a quality teaching of technical culture. I note that at this point all children in one class have the same workbook with instructions for work, the same technical drawing equipment, the same materials for making small exercises, the same equipment for performing elementary experiments, etc. By removing, i.e. by deleting the box from the list of compulsory, or supplementary teaching means, we will return 20 years back. At the same time, countries in Slovenia, Hungary and even Serbia, as well as most leading European countries have envisaged working materials for the field of technology and technology because they recognise the importance of such content for education students. Master of geography, I believe that the teaching and teaching of geography is necessary both in the textbook and in the geographical atlas you're throwing out. According to the curriculum in question, geography is the purpose of learning and teaching geography is to adopt geographical knowledge and skills, and one of the fundamental skills of geography is cartographic literacy, since the concepts of curriculum of cartography are an emphasis on space, spatial identity, spatial organization processes. In achieving the educational outcomes of geography, the emphasis is on developing geographical skills of which cartographic literacy is of paramount importance. It is evident that the geographical atlas must be a basic textbook set. When processing the first teaching topic in the 5th grade, I ask students what is necessary for the production of technical design. In the first place, they state that the material is needed and then the tools and the rest, so the children also know before they learn what is needed and the legislator does not know. The material has its price, the teaching means are needed to maintain teaching, for the teaching of technical culture required material, physical teaching. It is known that one image speaks more than 1000 words, the same ratio can be set for the actual material object relative to the image. Digitalization can't do that. Also, we can't eat digital food. For my education, the education of my professors and mentors has been spent on large social and material resources, so funds, so taxpayers' funds. Unnecessarily, I find the legislator unnecessary. Schooling without textbooks, without the ability to practice, without the possibility of creative expression. Before school, children learn at home. If we were to study at home according to the idea of legislators, no child would walk. The parents would parade in front of the children and speak left foot in front of the right, right in front of the left, and the children would crawl around and not walk because they needed help, the hand of the parents. And I will finish, the basic purpose of using workbooks in the follow-up is systematic and continuous training of new teaching content so that student competences are directed towards the application of knowledge in different situations of life. In this segment of empowerment of student competences, the useful use of digital materials is justified but as additions of printed materials with which it is compatible. The proper use of digital materials strengthens student digital competences and makes teaching more dynamic and quality. I believe that the goal of the school for life is not methodically and thus knowingly impoverishing the teaching and forcing teachers to deal instead of methodically with the technical issues of printing huge amounts of unsustained ballots without mentioning the price of this printing especially if many of these copies are due to the nature of some teaching content should be in color. As a result of this, I believe that the classification of workbooks in other educational materials would significantly reduce the quality of teaching, reduce the prospects for quality achievement of planned educational outcomes, as well as the satisfaction of students and teachers with reform efforts. These are some of the remarks that actually contribute to the issue of thinking once again whether and how smart it is to throw out work notebooks or to kick them out of this mandatory textbook set and bring teachers and teachers tomorrow into situations in our Croatian schools so that they can obtain these materials but only if all children in the class agree with the price, accessibility, etc. because in what other way to provide children with working materials if it will not be mandatory or printed from that sort of platform where there is actually a point but I will not have time to come through an individual debate I will actually come up with that platform to force teachers and teachers to copy some of the contents of the virtual, electronic content in which it is probably the point of this law. You work very nicely to prepare the use of EU funds and even those in the Croatian budget. The intensity of your ministry is unfortunately reduced to the purchase of tablets and to entering or putting paws on what will bring huge profits in the future, which are electronic textbooks and electronic materials. First one, his girlfriend. It would be very bad and harmful for the Croatian education system to abuse your position as minister to allow, to put Carnet aside, to put it only on the level of putting a free platform, to completely eliminate it from the story of creating material because you want to please someone else. I sincerely hope that this is not the intensity of this law, the time will show what is right from the hill, why such fast solutions are sent to the Croatian Parliament, why they are subject to the legal procedure, completely ignoring the strategy of science, education and technology, false information in the assessment of the situation where you state some false information of the type that has never been regulated by the price of textbooks, which is completely incorrect, where you say you are introducing the possibility of inheriting textbooks which is completely incorrect, so in 2013, it is the regulated maximum price of textbook sets through the textbook standard. And then it's also thrown out, and I have that data as much as the workbooks, as the bags have been reduced, as much as the price of the textbook kits has been reduced, so you've kind of fooled the council's representatives in the assessment of the situation. And you're also saying that you're going to simplify the procedure, which is partly true, but I don't have time to explain now why it's partly true, I'm going to learn that in an individual debate. You offer us unfortunately through this law half solutions and you refer to Finland. Yes, but in that Finland you say that textbooks are not approved, but textbooks are used and workbooks are used but you forget to say that in this Finland, the material costs in Finland are 7500 euros per student and that teachers and teachers with these means can provide whatever they want without financial burden on their parents. On the other hand, there are also specialized services that enrich on a daily basis the supply of work materials that can be printed, which can be distributed to students. It might be simpler for you to consider making school bags easier in a way that you may not be able to measure textbooks per kilograms but to secure at each school perhaps a box where you would leave your textbooks, work materials, go home unburdened, in schools to create conditions, probably a living room where teachers and teachers can work after teaching their homework, that's your job, not to subject us to such silly laws, under some historical reform of education, don't underestimate us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99205	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is the independent for Croatia on behalf of which the respected representative Zlatko Hasanbegovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99206	Honorable Vice President, Minister, MPs. At the beginning, in principle, the debate on this law should not be directed towards manipulation of parental sentiments, and debate on the weight of a student's bag, something like we've heard about the debate about weight, i.e. about the price of a kilo of brain. This legislative proposal is just one of the derivatives or a piece of mosaic of what we know as Milanović, Budak, Jokic's pretermity called complete curricula reform or Croatia's fully screaming reform of the information meta language or a new speech said CKR something like... And so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is a complete curricular reform or CKR. It is only about the franchise of the global ideological and colonising educational concept within which Croatia and Croatian education are only a small part of the wider battlefield. Due to the shortness of time, simplified but essential whether it is the United States, Croatia, Great Britain or France, it is a long-term project designed, far-reaching transformations or destructures, traditional and humanistic, European, educational ideal, proportionate to education, virtues and knowledge acquisitions, according to education aimed at ideologies, etc. Sustainable development and so-called Learning outcomes, i.e. according to education, which will mass-produced fah idiots, more precisely complete idiots and half-intelligent as market subjects according to the habitual anti-humanist or transhumanist social ideals. It is a framework within which every educational draft that will come out of the retort of Minister Divjak as the executioner of the educational amanate of Mr Ivan Vrdoljak, Croatian moral verticals and intellectual and academic gromadas summed up in his divisive billboard of wisdom, which is, I quote, more secure today than ever, the reform of education breaks the future of the Republic of Croatia. There will be, even if it's the last thing I do in politics. Powerfully speaking, grammatically quite in the spirit of the expected outcome of learning Croatian language by CKR So, specifically, the wider framework is so-called. CKR's second luxuriant level in whose function this law is called the so-called so-called "Current Law". It's a school project. What is a shortcut for a full Orlevian name that reads as school, be careful now, establishing a system for developing digitally mature schools, short for SRDZŠ in the text below e schools. The only real background and motivation of this legal proposal in the textbooks is to continue the implementation of this predetermined and unnecessary pilot project, a stupid and pretentiously named school for the life of the SKZ. More specifically, its expansion to the entire school system and the prerequisite for this is the adoption of this law by the end of this year so that Minister Divjak, as the only and supreme arbiter, can call a public call for new textbooks to be used in the next school year. The only purpose and purpose of this law is the mass purchase and use of pills, for those of us who don't know, the tablets are usually the devices which the taxpayers honored at the expense of the then president of the Croatian Parliament, I am boyishly fascinated by so-called. With ICT or information communication technology, which almost no longer anyone in this House uses, or just a few from his assembly club are pretending to use them. So, the goal is by law to use pills, electronic textbooks and digital educational content, etc. DOS which is favored within the two financial investment projects of the CKR and e school or the UrdZŠ Commissioner Mrs Novaković if you listen, when information communication technology or ICT thick fog breaks up, not above Kupres, but the Lower Saint 38 thing is a banal and commercial trivial. The company that is part of the pilot project of the school at the competition received jobs related to digital educational content is Algebra d.o.o. in which all available at the post of Assistant Minister Divjak was employed by the resident Lydia King. The teacher's information guru Lydia King, who was in Algebra d.o.o. in a team that launched the so-called a digital academy or psychic educational programme intended naturally for primary school students. However, Minister Divjak and her Algebra assistant who were to be brought here were broad-handed and selfless in the division of a financial cookie that would take place by the adoption of that law, which is a legal informative borg enterprise will be satisfied and the other Samaritans in... the food chain, e.g. Teleopers, IT sellers and fogs, corporations, etc., etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it should be recognised that Minister Divjak does not have the right to authorise this information Borgity only with the agreement of Andrej Plenkovic, president of the special expert commission for education reform, etc. The PSP and HDZ continue where its Reverend from Milanovic's Kukuriku Vlada, Minister of the Navy, began the process of creating so-called. Digitally mature schools, not to the joy of students, parents and teachers, but to a powerful lobby made up of traders and speculators with information equipment so-called. stemologists, part of the media, different stakeholders, institutions and individuals. The role of parliamentarians in this case is exclusively to be useful idiots of this lobby which are not independent of Croatia and will never be. Short, crucial provisions in the law. Three articles, 3rd, 4th and 16. Article 3(3) defines the concept of textbooks in such a way that the textbook is an educational material that I quote as a complete source for the achievement of all educational outcomes identified by the relevant curricula for each class and subject which the textbook may be printed and/or electronic. The consequence of the application is the following. The law defines a textbook as a whole source for achieving all educational outcomes. This means that the proposer guarantees the student that it is sufficient to use a specific textbook to obtain the fullness of knowledge. The existing law on textbooks speaks as one of the sources of knowledge. And he doesn't need any other means of teaching to gain the fullness of knowledge. But of course that's impossible. In fact, the Croatian school lecture is Finland, Japan, Singapore, Tungusia that we heard here is not of any interest to us at all. We have a Croatian school surrender. Namely, this surrender is characterized by the textbook that students use work notebooks, task collections, atlases, etc. It is especially important to use workbooks used by the student for training and graphomotors that cannot replace any information equipment. In this law, the workbook is separate from the law and is approved by the Education and Education Agency while the textbook approves the ministry. Two different bodies approve two teaching tools that are inextricably linked. Article 4 of this Article provides for formulas for the calculation of the maximum price and mass, not meat, but textbooks in elementary school. The result is the following, Article 3 defines the textbook as a complete source and in Article 4 the proposer has determined how much the mass of textbooks can be from which the quality of each textbook is measured by mass and not by content. It is paradoxical that there is a requirement on the one hand that the textbook provides a full source of knowledge, Article 3 and, on the other hand, that it must be easier than the existing one, Article 4. The existing textbooks are defined as one of the sources of knowledge and in order to acquire full knowledge, the existing law suggests that students use supplementary teaching tools. The new law defines the textbook as a whole source, so he doesn't need a work book and at the same time prescribes a formula for calculating the maximum mass of textbooks according to which new textbooks must be 30% easier than the existing ones. Article 16 and defines other educational materials in such a way that other educational materials are digital, physical, etc. The result is the following, in accordance with the provisions on the price of other educational materials used in teaching, mandatory items in each class will not have any interest in printing e.g. the workbook, the collection of tasks and the like because the price will be slightly higher than the usual notebook that can be purchased in stores. That is exactly what the proposer is up to the publishers to give up the printing of other educational materials to come to the site of these titles. free digital educational content of DOS which, of course, are not free of charge and which are built as part of the pilot e-school project, which will take over another e-mail cotery instead of the former publishing cartels. Finally, I call on the Government and the Resort Ministry to withdraw from the parliamentary procedure this insane private commercial law intended exclusively for pill dealers to publish electronic textbooks and to distribute digital educational content so-called. DOS and the projected funding of several hundred million kunas in the future is about billions of directions to the construction and restoration of Croatian schools that have no elementary working conditions, regardless of whether they use pills or chalk and the increase in poor teacher's salaries. This should be the zero point of any educational reform, regardless of the inspiration of the opinion of Joseph Racinger, Boris Jokic or the resident Mira Alanje. While other countries like France give up excessive digitisation and ban the use of mobile phones in schools. Croatia introduces a wide door to hyperdigitisation through the usurpation of a key identity portfolio of science and education by a minor, interesting commercial sect, which, with the support of Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ, conducts an ideologically corrupt experiment and violence against the Croatian education system, Croatian people and its most vulnerable work, children and youth. Minister Divjak, if you want to further deepen your knowledge of what you and other curiculoids and informationoids are doing, I recommend a study by French author Jean Paul Brigelli whose title in the spirit of the expected outcomes of full curricula reform is: a factory of jerks programmed school collapse. If you do not know French, ask for the translation assistance of the polyglott and the president of the PSP, Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99207	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Josip Djakic has raised. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99208	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 238 paragraph 5 has been injured, which clearly states that demeaning or insulting the president or other MPs, and in this respect all MPs and you vice presidents have been offended, except for representatives independent of Croatia, have been called useful idiots. Therefore, I ask you to give counsel notice to Hasanbegovic in accordance with Article 238 and the insults he has made because otherwise I think he is a useless idiot.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99209	Thank you. Now, I don't think that was so said, and the fact that the different things here in the assembly are being presented in inadequate ways, that some of us have completely different attitudes that express in, sometimes inappropriate ways, I don't estimate that, regardless of the expression that is personally unacceptable to me, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The next Club of Representatives is the club of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99210	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with his associates. .../The speaker speaks English./... So this was a little shocking and I'd say a theatrical debate, but one element that was present inside seems to me to be serious and should be seriously considered when we talk about this law, which is whether the form ate the content? This law therefore seeks, as the introduction says, to dynamicise, or speed up the approval process in the catalogue from which the textbooks are then selected and to speed up the withdrawal from that list, i.e. from that catalogue of textbooks and other educational materials. A special story is a special story, and this has already brought out a series of colleagues in discussions, related to work notes which, as well as additional material that is now entering this virtual repository, also in one category of material that I suppose is possible to verify, and from it will also be possible to choose different additional materials. The flexibility in making and changing catalogues I think is very important and I think that many arguments from this public debate which was held or comments which were presented in the public debate speak in favour of flexibility, i.e. in favour of the fact that it would be good for new content, subjects, deficits, etc. to allow these educational, therefore, textbooks and contents used to continue to change more frequently and to be more flexible to be listed or downloaded from that list or from that catalogue used in schools. It is said that, based on these changes, education ministers will be able to change and adapt the catalogue of textbooks and aids every year. Now, at the same time as we're discussing this need that I agree with and we support it at the GLAS and HSU club to make it flexible. At the same time, in the public debate, not the one referred to under the public debate, but in the public debate, it came out that in the textbook in Croatian, i.e. the work book the strength of the word for the 7th grade OSH is directly, as I would say, teaching religious science, which is, not only contrary to any idea of teaching Croatian language, but also the contradictions with the Croatian Constitution. And it's also a very interesting moment in this bill. So, in art. The 5th of this new law, it is said, should not be opposed to the Croatian Constitution in textbooks. I guess that's understandable in itself. I would say that what content in the textbooks must contain is promoting the value of the Croatian Constitution. Therefore, active education according to the basic values of the Croatian Constitution. Not that the law states that something contrary to the Croatian Constitution should not be taught. Our concern here among other things should be, quite the opposite, to make sure that at least these foundation values, and there are no unlimited ones, but they are fundamental and civilizational values of today, to be actively promoted through education. And we see that, in this particular case with this famous workbook, the strength of words is directly opposed to the Croatian Constitution, handing over content under the Croatian language lecture company, which is not in line with the Croatian Constitution and what should be taught in this context. There's a religious science, there's a surrender that they think should be taught. But as far as Croatian language is concerned, it must indeed be in line with not only the Croatian Constitution, but also promoting the value of the Croatian Constitution. The answer is supposed to be, and I'd like you to disprove me, that this year it's going to be taught like that, and then the next year it's going to be considered on the appropriate bodies, whether this workbook will be removed from use. What is the purpose of this law? So this law begins with the thesis of flexibility in the design and use of this catalogue with textbooks and other help that are used in the follow-up. At the same time, something that is so eclatively contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is seen, I am not saying that the minister must know everything in the contents and what is taught by schools, nor does the minister read, nor is it possible, must rely on the people who do the work. But once it's shown, it really has to work. I would assume that this is exactly the law for its purpose and that the minister can act in such situations, and then we expect it to work. It seems that even under the current law, 16 might work, but I'm allowing certain difficulties to exist. However, this law would have to be so that in a situation like this it can act instantly, because otherwise this whole flexibility story actually falls into the water and it doesn't make any real sense. The law also mentions that this possibility of inheriting textbooks is, of course, I think that the fellow Glasovac said that, it was long ago introduced, or it was one measure against indifference, so to speak, the publisher of textbooks, which, for example, would have changed an image in the textbook or 2 sentences in the textbooks, and then would require a new printing, so the new one, therefore, does not have much to do with the price that parents or students paid, but which the state paid, of course, and these are the same taxpayers, so on that... We have to keep an eye on where the publishers used this situation to make some minimal changes every year and then every year, because of these minimal changes, new textbooks have to be printed, and so it was introduced, I don't know, 2013 and something like that introduced that clause that the textbook must last at least 4 years to discourage that kind of incompetence from saying so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law says it is possible to issue new work notes, collection of tasks, other auxiliary materials each year that seems logical for different reasons, but of course there should also be certain control. Complementary and auxiliary teaching means are no longer approved under this law, their use is decided by a school or by a particular teacher, or I suppose, a choir, a teacher from a given class. I don't understand, I have to say, do they decide in these contents on the basis of what exists in the virtual repository. Or quite independently, because, of course, it is positive that teachers are given the opportunity to participate independently and creatively in creating teaching and teaching content to some extent. Of course, it has its own face and has its own arms. And that is why it would be very important to see what is in this virtual repository and who edits this virtual repository because we recently had the opportunity to see in the media that a professor was learning the knowledge of natural societies or geography in such a way that she took a song by Mark Perkovic Thompson in which he did not know exactly the title of the song, but he speaks of different parts of Croatia and one part, although under the wrong name, BIH. And asked students to base these songs to describe the characteristics of certain parts of Croatia. What's the problem? Therefore, political formation that no longer exists is required to be described as part of Croatia, which is not part of Croatia, but is part of the territory of the neighbouring state. If that kind of creativity goes into the virtual repository, then we're in a serious sauce. And then it's no wonder that we have children, not only who don't know geography, not only who don't know history, but who think that the country is a flat record, who thinks that evolution theory doesn't exist and that it's a fabrication, who thinks that vaccination is part of an international cynicistic or not a conspiracy. So we have one situation collectively stupiding the nation and that's something that's seriously dangerous. We always thought education was something important, but in the long run, so then we're not going to do it in this term. In the meantime, globally, not only in Croatia, but in globally, poor education, low quality of education, just this primary and secondary school began to break the whole world upside down. And political processes, retrogrades, some quite frightening, which we are globally witnessing in the world are largely the result of decades, the degradation of education. It's something that, of course, we can't prevent at one point, but really in every law like this, we have to be aware of it and stand up to it. And instead of bizarre provisions and determining that someone in the ministry is subject to textbooks, bizarre provisions about how difficult a textbook is and how difficult it must be and whether in this case it is printed on fly paper or plain paper, so if it is on fly paper, it would be easier, it would be high time to deal with content. What's the content of the textbooks we approve here and what we're going to print here? To begin with, let's say that this content should be promoting the value of the Croatian Constitution rather than just being opposed to the Croatian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99211	Thank you very much: We are now moving on to an individual debate, the first to appear is the respected representative Čikogić, who is not there, who is losing the right to speak. The next one will be spoken by the esteemed representative John Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99212	Dear ladies and gentlemen, you are all witnessing that our educational system is actually not working as it should, and one of the proofs of this is that every year the textbooks must be changed, which means that obviously either the content of their own is bad or it may be a conspiracy theory, they are publishers in agreement with the ministry or individual professors and schools, and then means, in exchange for various material interests, they are actually forging these new books from certain publishers, with the aim of earning on these textbooks, i.e., that the aim of this educational system, i.e., these books of textbooks, is not to translate knowledge from generation to generation, but to earn money on them, or that the interests of publishers are placed above the interests of children. I can't imagine that there are half a million students in primary and secondary schools and their parents, and on the other hand, the interest of a few of these publishers who are picking up money and that the interest of this small group is above the interest of half a million students, or their parents, who, for that reason, are terrified every year when a new school gentleman comes in because they know they're going to have to spend a lot of money on those books, which are already no longer worth it, because the story has changed. So, the story is changing not because there have been sensational new knowledge in Croatian, I don't know music culture, in mathematics, physics, geography, no new continent has been created and everyone still believes in the theory of evolution, I mean, most of them, and still the scientific community that dominates, has not come to terms, not evolution is lies and delusions. So everything's learning the same and the textbooks are changing anyway. So I ask you, you're smart heads, I'm obviously not like that, I'm considered a fool with a radical, a clown and whatever, so you smart guys explain to me who I'm stupid, why every year the textbooks change, why kids and their parents have to throw so much money, to actually get the same textbook as the last year just processed. Here, that to me, ladies and gentlemen is not clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99213	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99214	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. Indeed, the question of textbooks and the general question of school today has become a matter of material interests that can be well earned if you are in this circuit, for example, to finance the presidential campaign, you can, for example, open an account in London where you will be transferred several dozen million kunas, so you are insured for the rest of your life, and you can, for example. ... in the choice of textbooks, get a nice laptop, camera, tablets, smart board, different aids, maybe some trips because then comes the rush of these so-called so-called. Aquisitors by schools, offering various promo materials, small gifts but also by shopping malls, by cafes, by city, teachers are dragged by sleeves, directors, depending on how much to take, there are so many awards and that is, the public secret in the Republic of Croatia, always most of course gets exactly the one on top, legend says that one commission in the Ministry of Science, Education and Education was round 20 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the problem is, in fact, that education should be said so, completely independent of such influences and should be free of charge, according to all international conventions including the UN Charter, and then, of course, those free educations would include textbooks and we see that this is not the case, so the textbooks make huge money and see what other children have to pay for everything in schools, except textbooks, except work notebooks and teachers. In our schools children have to give money for school libraries, they have to give money for sports clubs, they have to give money for insurance, for kitchen, for excursions, for graduates, for theatre and cinema shows, visits to museums, magicians, hosting schools, for school magazines, for example, for Smib, Radost, for Blue Ownership, for geography magazines, they have to participate in school plays with certain material goods, they have to participate in humanitarian actions, for example, for Smib, Radost, for Blue Cross, etc., all this together may not be so bad, and then eventually they have to pay textbooks that are beastly expensive, beastish. So what we have are the prices of textbooks, so it's that a man falls unconscious, who allows it, that secret commission of yours, and I don't know, your sponsors from the CNS or HDZ. Watch one dictionary for the first grade of elementary school is 220 kn. It's a dictionary. Atlas for geography is 300 kn. It's something amazing, so if you have one child and you enroll him in school, say in the third or fourth grade, you come to the edge of bankruptcy, in the 9th month. But if you have two, three or no more children, you are absolutely bankrupt, so it can't last a man with a very high salary and at least a man who has a salary I don't know, from 2700 to 4,000 what a group in Croatian society is. So what, buys a bag, buys the cheapest bag that looks like something like 300 kn, so buys shoes for school, and buys a red-colored school uniform, so buys a white-colored shirt, so buys a pen with I don't know, this kind of accessories, so buys for art education, collages, clay, plastics, water, water, tempers, shower, coal, I don't know what not, geometry, so for math, so special exams, you have to buy ministers, you have to, there's no choice. and math tests and tests for Croatia and tests for nature and society, no will-not, must be bought. And not only that, but there are so many arrogant directors under your supervision that they ask children to pay for photocopying at school. To pay for photocopying and it's a mass phenomenon. If a teacher goes to photocopy something, he can't get the paper, but he has to pick up $2.3 from the kids, I don't know how much, to get a photocopy. And not like I say again, taking tens of millions in all that trouble. It is indeed a disastrous and devastating picture of our education system in which not only are reforms being carried out but it is systematically working on the destruction of the Croatian education system which has been accelerated precisely by your setting up the minister's place, or by leaving it to the party of the HNS, in which the main reform is that you removed from the testimony the name and last name of the parents, which is absolutely anti-civilisation and stupid and unnecessary, and on the other hand, where your party's head is telling experts, meaning that they have been educated their entire lives, such as I don't know, biologists, historians and geographers, that they must be requalified as an IT officer, by chance it's just the minister of IT. So requalify yourself into, I don't know, here, some kind of occupation. So a man who doesn't have an absolutely mild relationship about education, who never entered the classroom in his life, teaches intellectuals how to requalified them. What is it, so it's not a prevalisation from I don't know, locks in a plumber or I don't know any other occupation so it can be physically manual.../ The speaker doesn't understand. Well, people are only educated in college for five, six years, so where are specializations, so where are the promotions from calling, not to mention the master's degree, the doctorate, the whole life is about to come. And then all of a sudden, here's a requalification. What is education to measure you and your parliamentary majority? Education is to finish 3 classes of vocational school without any general culture, to create a fah idiot and then to work from 18 years of age after the magnificent statement by the Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Pavić, here with 18 people in Croatia start working, please introduce me to one such man who started working at 18 years old. Here is a statement by one minister, which means education according to the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Not to mention the other things that are done about this same education that, under the very authority of science that has too many separations, where these same students get bullied three times more when they leave high school, when they come to colleges, with some kind of scholarships that nobody knows how to charge, what they spend, with these kind of fees, such as fees for enrolment in semesters, and everywhere in the normal world these same colleges, these universities need 5% of the funds they have to spend on their students, means taking from them rather than giving them. Scholarships, awards, how many student awards are there in Croatia? How many scholarships are given? There's no such thing. It only comes here when it comes to writing a law for an interested group, when it sees a real one as it is called, a material interest, and what is important, and it is really reforming education, increasing the isolation rate, trying to reach at least neighbouring countries if we can't reach Latvia and Estonia that double the GDP is allocated for education than Croatia. What else do we have to talk about? In Croatia, knowledge is not appreciated, the only value in Croatia is the party card, sale, honor and dignity for the employment of family members, for the construction of a playground in its village and for therefore the lowest possible material benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99215	Thank you. The next individual debate is those respected representatives of Sanja Putice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99216	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed ministers with their associates. Here we are now witnessing in the Republic of Croatia the implementation of an experimental programme of the School of Life which began in September this year and that there have been some problems with teaching aids and textbooks for the start of implementation of this experimental reform, it is perfectly understandable that a law like this will be followed in the future by a full curricula reform prescribed by the Science, Education and Technology Strategy. But it is also clear that along with this law, there is also the introduction of new content that is needed in the education system not only because the system as a whole must go forward, but also to make it much easier for teachers themselves who sometimes, can confirm it from practice, in a great problem when they find themselves some additional materials in order to somehow bring their students closer or make their subject more interesting. It's mentioned in this law and so on. the virtual depository which is said to actually enter in the same way, therefore both commercial and free content, it seems to me that it is necessary to establish perhaps by some regulation, to clearly determine what content and by which criteria it will enter into that virtual depository so as not to leave to that extent the freedom of schools, teachers, teachers, teachers to extract certain contents from it, so some uniform rules I think would be necessary and define what virtual depository is, and how and by which criteria they enter into it. Also, there is a difference between the textbooks as primary teaching materials and working notes of other aids, I just need to highlight what we talked about on the board this morning, that's the difference between certain items. All objects simply cannot enter the same basket, related to the use of workbooks, for example, foreign languages do not require certain written skills. When using foreign languages and voice skills, you often get different CDs or stickers along with work notebooks, so it seems to me that there should also be a difference between classes in the use of workbooks or other virtual materials. Also, we discussed that it is extremely important in time to evaluate and implement the process of selecting individual textbooks, you have prescribed this law and deadlines, June 1st is the final start of the selection within schools, August 15th is the end if all students should actually be available at schools. I sincerely hope that teachers or teachers at school level, at the end of their school year in everything that they expect from the administrative work when the school year ends, will find time and quality to actually meet and choose some textbooks at the level of their assets because it seems to me that the deadline is quite tight, we know that it is unfortunately a practice to come to that deadline and August 15 is actually only 15 days before the start of the new school year. Also, the new school year would therefore be the one to which this law should enter into full application, i.e. full or frontal implementation and implementation of curricula reform, which I hope will be done on the basis of the exact indicators of the current experimental reform and, as Article 9 of this Law says, to include in the catalogue all the textbooks for which it will be authorised to use and as regards the more precise definition of their use, it may also be good to define by one regulation what these are all other educational materials, you were in your debate earlier explaining this law, listing examples that could be, personally, from teaching practice that everything we find on YouTube, sometimes not only that it is not true and that there is no real data but I think that these contents would pass certain filters of this tripartite committee that we have discussed this morning on board, which still filteres the contents available to students and teachers. What I have already problemed in the adoption of laws from your ministry, and unfortunately this seems quite realistic in the context of the Republic of Croatia, this is the imbalance and inequality of the financial resources and equipment of Croatian schools, not only of Croatian schools, but also of the local self-government unit. I think there are certain units of local self-government that will probably decide if giving away packages or sets of textbooks to their students, that they will also give them a work book and some additional material, I don't think they need to be limited, but unfortunately there are schools that exclusively in their secretaries and accounting have one single computer, so I wouldn't want students, for example, to follow some other electronic content from their personal phones, computers, so that we actually let them have one unlimited use of cell phones in the classroom without, I have to admit some content controls that are being watched here and on the other hand, I say, you have schools that certainly have two, three smart panels in their frame, and where students are very easy to follow all other contents. I say, this discrimination would not be good, and I sincerely hope that either from EU funds or from the state budget, it seems to me before, because it is too short a time, we manage to equip a large part of Croatian schools to make such content available to these students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99217	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We can rightly wonder what the scope of this law is or what its expected success will be. I think that the basis for such an answer has already been offered by the minister when she said that Finland as one of the most developed countries and the most prominent country in this area in terms of education, has no textbook catalogue but is already to assume that it has an agreement on the value of educational and educational values to be promoted and that there are provisions on what competences and skills students need to acquire in order to develop education. Namely, the focus here on us and today's debate is on this textbook. The status of the book in the field of information science 50 years ago was such that the book is 4 to 5 years late with the knowledge it publishes. In view of the technology of book production and production, today this period is less but on the other hand, we have confused it that it must last for 4 years in the future and since the year it is published. How to find this balance, it is a question of itself, but it seems to me that here it is methodologically unwarranted what has been said so far, that there is a real difference on the function and role of the educational book, i.e. textbooks and other educational materials, i.e. work notebooks in the educational process. This methodologically simply is not allowed because how will you develop a critical opinion if you do not have... Auxiliary aids or no skills. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me that this duplication is going on later and given the provision of who is reviewing the textbooks by reviewing and determining the Ministry's reviewers, or the use of them is determined by the minister and these accompanying materials are given the opinion of the agencies. Why is that division? Why and how? Either it should be all on one side or everything on the other, or everything goes in my opinion not only for this ministry, but for all ministries, it is the minister's role to take care of the laws, not to write solutions and make these practical decisions, therefore, this focus should be on agencies. On the third hand, you have something that's just unclear to me because on the one hand it's clearly said and now I'm going to say why I don't think that's in order. On the one hand, it is said that in order to prevent conflict, employees or ministries or education agencies or competent agencies cannot be authors or reviewers. And then it is said that preventing conflicts of interest, members of the expert commission should sign a statement that they are not textbook authors or that they are family or business related, and then it is to be understood that it is not related to the author or the applicant, if they are in a marriage relationship or out of wedlock, relatives by blood, vertical lineage, adoptors or relatives in an auxiliary line to the secondary... I mean, it's just not polite to put it into this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is necessary to lay down a simple provision that it must not be in conflict of interest to go into law like this, in every law to criminalise its own society, I don't think it makes any sense. By the way, I don't think we have any crime in Croatia, but I also think that crime is not entirely, is not different from other countries of the same transition status or previous experience. Furthermore, what is said about these formulas for prescribing the price of textbooks or the mass of textbooks, I don't think that these formulas here are the place. Why? Because other methods can also produce the same results. And showing that someone calculated something is not necessary and not necessary. I did so to determine that this weight of that bag cannot be greater than certain, but the formula itself does not belong here. Why? Because on the one hand, I think my colleague Varga warned you if you legally specify that that's three kilos, then someone's going to say it's 3kg and 15 grams, so it can't be used anymore. So this has to be done, this should be resolved by a regulation that the ministry issues and explains, and then within that you can, you can correct it in one way or another. You have one thing that is very problematic to me, says teachers, directors and professional staff etc., is not allowed to receive donations and other forms and schools, institutions, donations and other forms of material support except one day of seminars or do not know the notebooks worth up to 100 kuna. ... outside of college, I know in colleges, I guess, and in these other schools equipment manufacturers are competing to donate to colleges or education centres equipment to educate people on the latest equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, we'll sanction it. Between bribery and corruption and the introduction of new technologies should make a difference and this should be specified in another way. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish the interest of the educational process to get the latest technologies, the latest equipment, the latest means to educate students and I wanted to tell students but this is not about students yet. Therefore, it can be used to benefit. In other words, we will find that even the library will no longer be able to receive books from publishers because then it will be considered a conflict of interest to express myself in this way. So you know, I think there should be a good thought here about the meaning of this. It seems to me that the main problem is that if we want to move forward we need to agree on something that is obvious and in this assembly it is difficult to agree and this system, the system of values and educational and educational values that must not be asked, and in that case we will be much easier to solve these problems which a part of the clear thing stems from the logic of poverty that parents do not have the opportunity to pay the price of these textbooks. But if we have an agreement on those values that we seek and what we want to achieve, then we can find solutions that will make up for this poverty one way or another.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99219	Thank you. We have one replica, respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99220	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tudjman. You have problems with Article 7 concerning members of the Expert Committee and paragraph 3. but I am also concerned with paragraph 5, which states, the same article, that the composition of the expert committees referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is a secret and way of working, the procedure and the criteria for selecting members is signed by the Minister. If he's a secret, how do we know who the members are? If we don't know who the members are, then we don't know if they're in conflict of interest, so maybe there's some things we should do, here's what I don't know if you agree with this finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99221	The answer of the esteemed representative of Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99222	Thank you. Well you see the problem is, I'm not sure I said so now I'm using, members, to determine what are the conditions for someone to be a member of the expert commission. And this is when I said that neither the ministry nor the agency, no one can be the reviewer or the author. Which are long-term, I agree there's a conflict of interest. But you have another problem, which is then a message of human policy in those institutions. So there, if I were to radicalize now, there should be people who aren't able to write a review or write a textbook. I think it's completely wrong. I think not that they must write, but that the quality of these people must not be such that we reduce that level of their ability and responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99223	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Once again, I welcome the minister and her associates, and here is the time that has passed, and here is really all the debates that I have had so far, and I have listened very carefully to almost all of them. I'm going to try just a few dots one more time like that and further emphasize and in some way try to recapture here are some parts of all the debates so far. What I'm thinking at the beginning, and I don't think that any of those people who participated, from colleagues and colleagues in the debates, have pointed out to me quite like that. Once again I need to repeat and emphasise, this law defines for the first time that the textbook is not required, so that the teacher, the textbook in the course as material doesn't have to use if it doesn't want to, it's okay. It is a major step towards empowering the autonomy of teachers, teachers, professors of autonomy in terms of professional performance of their work, but also one big step for all those, if they decide, according to something that we can call the responsibility of teachers to achieve outcomes, if we take into account that teaching is a very creative and unrepeated process which, in my opinion, I have spent almost all my professional life teaching, does not require a prescription, it is necessary to prescribe recipes, but rather necessary and necessary teachers, teachers, teachers, to encourage teachers to design their teaching as creatively as possible and textbooks are not necessary to achieve the outcome. You can predict the outcome, at least as prescribed, here and how some curriculative documents will be obtained in different ways without having to use the textbook at all. What's on my mind at this point as a question, are our teachers currently ready for that? Are our teachers ready for that? Are they ready? If they are great, I think a very small number of teachers are ready for such a step, it's one side, the other side I think it's necessary to keep an eye on and someone has already mentioned that we don't have a story here, okay I'm going to call on the law, I don't need a textbook, I don't need anything, I'm going to work on my own so that it doesn't go astray and that, of course, in this case, it's intended to achieve learning outcomes like this or like that, to use different contents that in some cases would not be appropriate. But that's why I repeat school and teacher as a professional is responsible for the use of teaching content. The second thing I want to do is repeat that one of the intentions of this law is to release textbooks from content and that this law is precisely discharging textbooks from unnecessary, from a lot of content that we all have here we have observations that textbooks are burdened with different content, so this law wants to implement it on a different concept, which is the basis of learning outcomes, not content. That should be considered. Now again, I always try to be realistic about every problem, and I always say okay, it's a process and it needs to let time show if we're going to succeed. It's one of the key issues, it's the process of how our teachers will deal with it. Thirdly, we talked about it, so here for the first time we have separation, the only textbook is taken as a whole choice, and if the teacher decides to use the textbook he is the only mandatory content, and everything else, means work notebooks, task collections, atlases, everything we talked about, belongs to the category of other contents that can be either commercial, at commercial level or be used for free in the virtual repository. I agree with colleagues who have mentioned the need to come up with mechanisms to control everything that is in the repository and, of course, remind me that it is worth considering and useful to consider and have the argument that certain items are specific and that in certain items, both work notes and collections and everything else should remain in the textbook set that is required. Some objects are more, some are less specific. Here's what I'm asking all of us to think about until the second reading. Of course, the approval procedure means the textbook, the expert committee that reviews, the other content and the Agency's opinion, we'll see what's going on here, so the Agency's opinion and the Agency's opinion, and the expert committee's work is a serious review procedure, and I agree with the colleagues who asked the question, okay, so the reviewers are secret, and I can agree that if the aim of the reviewers' secrecy is their objectivity, and not giving space to accommodation, I ask who approves who will be the reviewer, who chooses the reviewer for each textbook? What kind of procedure is that? Is that going to be called a rulebook? Because I don't know it, I don't know the minister's discretion to tell you, you and you're the reviewer of it, that and that. So that's where we're left, it seems like a little open space, and we should work on that. The next thing I want to draw attention to, ok, digitization of the school in okay, 21st century, we live in time, we need to go in step, but let's not forget that a large number of schools in Croatia still have the most basic conditions for work, material conditions, from the building, from the material other conditions, we have to take care of the even development of all areas in Croatia and of the even and equal conditions for all our schools, from Vukovar via Dubrovnik, Zagreb to my Virovitica, Pitomac, and I don't know now Čakovec, Varazdin, that I don't want to count on us, so that in some way we don't bring ourselves down to a priority just by ignoring this whole thing, so that we don't deafen ourselves to the problems of material that we have in schools, I won't want to offend anyone, so that we don't want to paraphrrase Maria Antoinete who has gone deaf to her people't have to the problems. In this case bread is to ensure the provision of material conditions for school work, and digitisation would be these cookies. Let's not give our schools cookies instead of bread, and that way we think we've done everything. Inheritance of textbooks, printed digital. In the printed textbooks, inheriting ok, so after a few generations at the end, it's not much news to me, in some time when I went to school we inherited textbooks from previous generations and that's okay. Inheriting digital textbooks, I will repeat, I asked the minister today, and I would love it if the minister would once again answer that question, (aa), in the succession of digital students there is something called paying, how much it costs to pay the digital textbook because they were mentioned and mentioned, and ok paying the licenses for annual use, in my opinion it is not an inheritance but an annual rental of textbooks for a year. I'd like to get that a little clearer, yeah. And for the end, here, very often almost every one of us can either now or whenever we talk about this topic, we tell us the example of the Finnish system in educational, excellent, and sometimes we say and sometimes we often talk ma hrvatski bit Switzerland, but I can tell us but we can but therefore the Croats should behave as Swiss, in order for Croatia to be Swiss we need Swiss, also so that the Croatian educational model would be at least a bit like Finnish or as Finnish we have to have fines among teachers and we must act as finests in terms of changing mental circuits and achieve that level of mental assembly but also the level of isolation for education and not only, education of science and all of what the sectors in the state budget so that we can even think about models like Finland. Until it's difficult to reach the Finnish model, whether it's textbooks, whether it's teaching, the quality of teaching, access to students and everything that's related to it. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99225	Thank you, we have more replicas. He is the first respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleague Bedekovic, you have asked the question of the responsibility of teachers and the ability to choose or not to choose the use of textbooks, which means that we are actually more aware that there are teachers in the system who are ahead of existing practices and can be an example to everyone else. However, the (processing) of the law does not indicate that they are involved in the process but are at the end of the educational process, so they should also be included in the creation or if you want to review these proposals of those textbooks that they should be, they should be the bearers of that decision, these evaluations of new textbooks. So that's the part that I simply didn't exist I couldn't read because there's no emphasis on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99227	Reply by Honored Representative Bedeković
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99228	Now we come again to that question that I asked the Minister, I believe the Minister will answer, so again the question of who, who are the people who are reviewing so the textbooks, how do we know that they are secret, there are reasons to be secret, okay, how are their choices being made, and who chooses them, who decides who will be the reviewer? And I agree that our great teachers should be included in this. Of course, it is not visible in the law, if it is not visible then either by Regulation or by regulation, or hence that these issues will be regulated by a sublegal act. So, there's a little bit left in the air, right? I agree with your...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99229	The next replica of the respected representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99230	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what you have pointed out as a positive example to me is an extremely controversial example, which is that teachers can decide that they will not use textbooks because we have to be aware even though we who come from the university have students who come with the knowledge that is extremely reduced. The state's graduation did something to target the area of knowledge of school values according to the classes at the prom. If we now allow and allow teachers to choose or not to choose certain textbooks, I'm afraid we'll do another reduction and the students will be left without a source of knowledge. The source of knowledge is based on the content of not the authority and skills of the teachers, except to refer to the professor. We won't get rid of poverty unless we can get people to work and make them know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99231	The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99232	Thank you for this observation. So that's why when I was saying this, I ended up holding back and putting the basic question, are our teachers ready for it? Are they ready to be professionals who will be a very responsible and well-founded word not I do not need a textbook, I know that I can and know that I can achieve the outcome in some other way and assume responsibility that our students will, by means of some other content, adopt all the knowledge they need, so that we can say that we have satisfied the drawn learning outcome. Are we ready for that? It was my bust. Thank you for that question, and thank you for pointing that out and pointing it out again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99233	Next replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99234	Dear colleagues, you mentioned textbooks that could be inherited. Here's my town but more and more towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia buy textbooks for their students, with me specifically and textbooks and work notebooks. I see absolutely no reason why these textbooks could not be inherited from generation to generation, which is why textbooks are printed in which they can be written, so they are practically unnecessary for the next generation, or unusable, so that if parents have more children and each other goes to the same class, they can't use textbooks than this before. Because I think it's a favor to someone and I see as mayor how much we pay for it all a year, how much the burden literally falls on parents in that case. So the textbook is something that should last at least a few generations, and I think we should discuss and make sure that that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99235	The answer of the respected representative Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99236	So thank you and for your observation, I absolutely agree because look, the textbook as a tool used by the teacher in its course, anyone can, if it's well and well done, last a few generations. I'm back again without regret for older times, but at the time I went to school, so we learned from textbooks that we inherited from generations of textbooks older than 5, 6, 7, 8, 10 years. So, that's right, I don't see any problem in it, we just need to get to, go back to such a let's call it modus operanda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99237	Thank you very much. Now finished on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected Minister Blaženko Divjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99238	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, thank you for your comments, I will try to look back as much as, because I have written down most of it, of course later we will answer about the materials that we will get from the Parliament to everything that has been said today, I will nevertheless answer some of these remarks and questions as much as time allows and that you still have one more point on the agenda today as I have managed to see Three points. [[Intruder Reiner: 3.]] Then I have to be faster. In any case, there were a lot of constructive remarks, there were a lot of questions, there were a lot of things that really need to be taken into account, but unfortunately, there were a lot of speeches that we had already heard, so among other things we heard literally, literally from the words of the argument used or sent already one publisher and in the ministry stayed, meaning it from the speaker's speech to the word, I think that, among other things, I think that my remark at the beginning is really to be kept, that we really need to read this bill from the beginning to the end, and in a way that we get full information about what is not in the law and not that we use someone else's words, means that it's actually someone who sends it past all the public debates, past the panel, and then it's still read it in the assembly because everything that we can say in this way, we can put public debate and give public consideration to the need to be the need to be able to be able to be able to be able to be in the need to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be honest, to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to have to be able to And of course, we must not run away from the fact that we live in the 21st century and that this student is already being asked for digital skills. And all these comments that go in the direction that it doesn't need to be done in schools, we need to know that the moment the school door closes, the students will be welcomed at work because we already know that 90% of all jobs, all jobs in 10 years will have certain elements of digital literacy of digital skills. So we have to provide it at school in an appropriate way with appropriate adjustments that I think are also embedded in curricula and everything that is done with teachers d will be done in the right way. I also have to say at first that there are a few things that we need to draw attention to and it seems to me that either it was misread or it was deliberately misread. First of all, it's not going to have a digital add-on, it doesn't say anything. But textbooks can be printed, printed completely, mixed and can be electronic. So it doesn't say anywhere that every textbook has to have a digital supplement, I'm really asking to remember, that it's in law in no way written like that. Then, working materials still exist, nothing is lifted, nothing is lifted. Which means that all the materials will be in the repository, whether they are open content or free of charge or will be commercial and teachers will choose for themselves, however, not only will they choose for themselves but they will have the opportunity to assess in the repository whether they were useful to them, which means that someone who chooses this material will have very useful suggestions from other fellow teachers, which I think is definitely extremely important, this recommendation, that part of the recommendation. And all those who are examples of France who do not use digital technologies, of course, is not true. France has recently opened an online repository where all materials and teachers have access and education are online so it would be good to understand what digital repository or online learning and teaching or e-Learning means and to distinguish from the fact that one of the students is not allowed to use cell phones during teaching, against which we are all clear. But these two things must not be mixed or used in this way without verifying what they are. And as for the workbooks, of course, the work notes offered by the publishers and approved by the agency will be in the repository, which does not mean that they will be printed from the repository but means that the notice or information on the workbook in printed form will be available in the repository. And the work book will be bought as it has been in the bookstore or otherwise. Therefore, it should also be understood about what this is about. Of course, the question has been raised with the meaning of the VAT on digital materials, here is the European Parliament now in the process of a proposal from the European Commission that allows for the reduction of VAT on electronic publications, I hope it will also quickly adopt it. Of course, there were several questions about whether a new law was needed. The new law is needed because it is a conceptual change and this conceptual change although it has resulted in a simple law which is a feature, it is good that the law is simple, at the same time it is layered because it really contains a change of paradigm. Of course, the question arises how will teachers manage it. It is likely in the first cycle that most teachers will resort to the traditional solution, and it is possible under this law to choose the textbook from the publisher A and to choose the work book from the publisher A. And that is fine, about that, no one argues that it can continue to be so. However, we allow teachers who want to choose other additional materials differently or to make their own material that is suitable for their students and cannot prevent them, and that is autonomy. So it's going at a pace that's not too fast. Because those in need of additional education will be provided with additional education and that is the case. Those who are already ready for innovative teaching methods can also use and use materials and a legal basis to do so under this bill. So the traditional solution is still included, so can be used and of course most of you and I will tend to think that and a good part of the teacher will continue to work in this traditional way for various reasons. But we must enable this evolutionary process that is not a revolution. There were a lot of questions about the price. Whether the price and weight should be in the law or in the Regulation. I'll tell you, it should be in the law. Why? So because we all have a chance to decide on this, that you have a chance to make a statement about it, not be it somewhere on the side or that the minister, the minister, no matter who decides on it, we don't know what. This is very transparent. We all know what it says, and we can all tell the students and their parents we'll agree that the home budget should be disbursed or not, we won't agree to that, we'll give it to the minister who can put it in the rulebook or let it determine that price at his own discretion. I don't agree with that. I don't agree with that. I think it's our shared responsibility. And in the House we have to say, we want to relieve in one sense or another parents, students, or we don't want to. So that's not the place in the rule book. It's the place in the law if we want to have it in the law. If we don't want to then we can still say it's okay, let's form the price the publisher wants and can and then we'll have a competition situation without any restrictions. We, of course, have received solutions from the Competition Protection Agency, which has clearly and loudly written that there is no problem with competition if the highest price is determined. It would be if the exact price were determined. However, if it is only the highest one, it can always be offered at a lower price and we expect it. So I assure you that it is good to make such a decision at the level of the law, it is related to the media salary that is very stable, which is unfortunately stable because the media is not an average salary and is not even minimal in which it can be influenced in different ways, it is mostly influenced by, let's say, different government decisions which are positive but thus actually manipulated with a minimum wage while with an average salary it determines something else, it varies very much and the average salary is 6350 or approximately that long while the median is 5070. So the media pay when we're talking, we need to know that half of the employees are getting less pay than that and the other half is higher. So this is very stable. As far as the real need for other educational materials is concerned, it was the same as the remarks, so teachers, i.e. experts... Depending on whether the lower classes or upper classes or secondary schools decide whether to do so, they decide. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we have these very specific questions about materials for minorities, textbooks and so on. My answer is, now we have an independent sector for national minorities who certainly are now much more quality and better concerned about this problem and all these suggestions that we have heard I am sure we will also put in the procedure in some way. The question of succession and the textbooks are now being inherited, and this law is simply prescribed, so nothing is done. And like so far, there are working textbooks you can't inherit because they're written in them. And like so far, you have working notes that are written in, and they don't, of course, inherit. So that part hasn't been changed. But why were work textbooks left behind? Well, we had a lot of objections in the public debate, and I agree that they are justified that, especially in the classroom, work textbooks should be preserved for the development of certain skills, writing motors, so this relationship to, therefore, printed material, physical material, I think it's certainly justified and that's how it's done. However, not all work notes are of a quality workbook. Now I personally took the time and looked at the workbooks. Most of the workbooks are such that if you open a work book that someone paid for, then write to you what you see in the picture and the next 3 pages describe what you see in the picture. So, what's the point of putting it in the workbook instead of in the notebook that you pay dearly or to round up the correct answer or to add something. It is very rare that we have a situation that the work notes are such that they promote the development, knowledge or skills of higher cognitive levels. And of course, when such ones exist, I'm sure teachers will still choose them and, of course, if they are commercial, that they will enter those, therefore, we have prescribed them to, of course, be a working notebook and other teaching materials can be obtained in the frames of those who write here, 20% lower classes compared to basic textbooks, 30% and 40% higher classes without parents' consent in that section. And of course if it's higher than that, it's something else. As for the digital transformation that's been talked about, I'm going in line now, so I apologize if all the topics aren't connected because I'm actually going after your discussions is a long-term process. I have already said, therefore, there are no revolutionary steps, but this law enables one evolution in this process and selecting both autonomy and using different materials. So, of course, the whole process began, the digital transformation of schools through an e-school project that was mentioned here in a not-so-speakable context, but actually the project is very good. Because in the first phase, in the pilot phase, 10% of schools in Croatia are equipped, in the second phase, full application since 2019 will cover all schools in Croatia, will be equipped until 2022. Only I ask you, should we, meanwhile, stop all processes and start talking about change in 2022? I don't think there's any excuse or we'd get teachers on our side, especially students and their parents. Also from the state budget are provided funds for school equipment, each primary school currently has at least 1 computer classroom, at least one, every primary school in Croatia, and is provided with funds for secondary schools, means both for vocational and high school, which through funds, is from the state budget. So in that sense it's done... As far as possible, of course, if we can get a bigger budget, it'll be even better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But at this point, everyone has at least those minimum conditions for primary schools and for high school, we've provided funds. Yeah, around that virtual repository, there were a lot of questions, but as I said, a French who usually served as an example of a state that forbids digitisation, there's this virtual repository where there are materials, which we're going to have, which doesn't mean there won't be any physical materials and that doesn't mean we have to print a commercial workbook. It just doesn't, and if it were to print the commercial workbook it would be pointless, it would be pointless, as it is pointless to claim that Carnet or any other agency means it has any monopoly or can or can not put certain contained. It's all written and prescribed. So in that sense, there is no intended solution, and if there is, I think that all those who know it is, have an obligation to report such a speculative solution. So, as for the very procedure of this law, as we have come to this moment, it is respected, so everything is done by law, we have, and we have the opinion of the Committee on Law means Parliament which also has no objection to this procedure, and means also the impact assessment of the rules was in public consultation, as it has been for all the other laws that come into this House. So I don't think there should be any misunderstanding. There were also no 273 objections, 192 were objections in the public consultation and of course there were those that were repetitive, but in this we have no problem and they were determined to be respected. One very important observation that we have noted is that the foreign language is also, throughout the whole time means having a working character means textbooks from a foreign language, it is also accepted. And now one curiosity, given that a technical culture was mentioned, will now have a very thin textbook under the new law, so now it has a very thin textbook. And you know what's extensive, so-called. A technical box containing a splinter plate, glue, scissors, 2 triangles, cranberry paper, and that comes in 100 kn. If we are to discuss now, should we continue to buy a 100 kn box for which I am sure and it is entrusted, that the material that is internal comes even half of it. Well, then we can still use this approach that we have now. I'm really asking you to think about it, when we're giving examples of something that's as good as it is now and now it's going to break down. I don't think this is great what I'm talking about right now. Now a few, so we still have to answer, because from this pay phone was mentioned, for example, by my assistant who had worked at Algebra until she was on duty, so I worked at the University of Zagreb, each of you, I hope, before arriving at the Croatian Assembly was also working somewhere. So what does that mean now? We, of course, had to do with her obligations in the ministry, immediately sent an inquiry to the Committee of Conflict of Interest which was apparent that the assistant minister's lady was not in conflict of interest. Of course, she stopped all of her activities that were related to Algebra, the moment she came into office, she entered the office as each of the officials did at the moment when she entered into office, interrupted with the duties or working relationship he had before. I don't see any problem in that, except that now they're pulling things out of context which I consider a real personal attack and it's not the place here. So some of you of course think textbooks change every year, textbooks don't change every year. The textbooks haven't changed in five years now that are in schools, so they haven't changed in five years, except for a small number of experimental textbooks, that's all. There has been no opening of textbook catalogues in the past 5 years and we have still kept here a formulation that textbooks should be in operation for at least 4 years with the exception that if they want to improve the content or correct errors, that is possible. As for the impact on the choice of textbooks, of course, there is an article 17 that discusses the ban on the choice of different influences on the choice of textbooks, because let us not forget that market as I said, when the selection takes place, half a billion kuna and certainly the interests are strong as the debate and there are also breaking provisions in Article 19, we have managed the Anti-Corruption Directive, and unfortunately, therefore some of the things that we have prescribed here are not otherwise prescribed and we have taken over that provision from the existing law. However, I ask you once again, if you have any, respected MPs and MPs, if you have any doubts about the abuse and especially if you have doubts about the abuse of any of us, so that we have done something wrong or something that is not in accordance with the law, which is trying occasionally to impute here, I really, I require you to report it because it is your obligation and it is not your obligation to pull things out of context and to talk about synergy. If you have any doubt, please report it will help us all. Here we are, and we've been listening to eclative lies. For example, Commissioner Bunjac said that I removed the parents' names from the student testimony. That's not true, of course. The change related to the testimony was made for the previous minister at the time of the competent State Secretary for Education and Education, was a member of Hrvoje Schlezak. That's what we're talking about. I'm really asking you that when we say such things that we have to check, this is all verifiable, there are acts, signed and brought to the Ministry's pages. We have a few more short things to do by this time, first of all, the truth is that we have now separated textbooks into mandatory textbooks and additional educational materials that are then checked by an agency that doesn't actually review, but it checks the material that enters the digital repository and what are the criteria, it's also given here in the law. Also, the conditions for members of the commission will be prescribed in the rule and it is written in the law, meaning the conditions and the way in which the work is chosen in more detail than what is in the law, will be in the rules as it is so far and of course, they have to sign all these statements of no conflict of interest and why they are secret, we have already explained, but they are not secret forever but until the time the process is over and then the list of all reviewers that are then publicly available so that everything can be checked and seen, so it is not secret forever, so we have followed the principles of what they are otherwise for reviews especially in scientific journals and etc. And of course the reviewers are teachers, so it's always been so boring, but then one of the reviewers is at least a teacher, and I think it's very important to us because of this whole practice that we're talking about. Of course, there was a question, now I'm not going to go back to whether teachers are ready for autonomy, so those who are empowered for full autonomy can take it, those who are not, we have a really great obligation to provide education support to teachers and, of course, for those who want one time, a safe path can still use the standard approach they have now. However, I must say that we must have confidence in our teachers, teachers and allow them to develop but also a slight transition to new paradigms of learning and teaching, and that is where we must give them confidence. It was about education, everything I sign, support and propose, so I hope that the adoption in the Assembly will come to a budget that will be increased in the work of education and science and to all those who doubt whether we are doing a good job, I will say that last week Croatia has received for the first time a positive report on reform processes in education means starting with basic, secondary and higher education, it is about ambitious education reforms, about curriculative reform that addresses both quality and relevance, it is about new legislation in vocational education in a positive way, it has been brought by this Parliament, it is particularly commended by the Commission, especially by the appointment of the centre of competence, and it is particularly said that the Bulgarian contracts as an instrument for agreeing results in high education and what the government ended 9. I mean, also something positive. Of course, we must read it carefully and see where else we can improve because there are such places, but for the first time we have received a very positive report regarding our system, i.e. the reforms that are being launched. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99239	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99240	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Your Honorary Minister, what I'm giving up now is why I want to show you what a teacher without a source of textbooks might say and explain the situation we're in. The Parliament will always be your body where the principles of archaic conflicts rule. There shouldn't be, there will always be archaic conflicts here, and the digital world, the world of the fourth industrial revolution, it's happening where students should be prepared. For example, your presentation and Mr. Bunjec when you said he was telling lies, he's not telling lies, but his testimony contains the way we're going to verify. When he said something, we need to develop thought playfulness to find a way to check it out. He didn't tell a lie, but he told one truth that was shown by verification as false. And that's how I'd like this world to be a real thought game for us, not bitter archaic conflicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99241	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99242	Yes, dear Minister, you were well told by colleague Marco. Our intentions are not dishonest and you do not need to be bitter about the criticism that comes from these benches. The first thing Mr. Hasanbegovic said and you, the committee to prevent conflicts of interest is not... The explicits said that your assistant was not in conflict of interest, but said on 18 January 2018 that she was in a potential and possible conflict of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, as much as her presence in your ministry has affected some of the ministry's decisions and arrangements with her former firm, it will show time. Secondly, when you're talking about a box of technical education, it's yours to do everything you can to make that box, to make it a price less than 100 kuna, not a line of less resistance, as if it's none of your business, just throw it out and say look, technical culture you're going to learn how, but the boxes aren't there, it's not mandatory. I mean, that's a little illogical. Don't run from responsibility. It's not just painting, smiling and PR, it's taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99243	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99244	Well, I think this intervention of yours actually speaks more of who's bitter. But I tried very honestly to respond to what you said, and that was, first of all, technically, you set an example, so I told you the esteemed lady MPs an example of your technicality, so that's what I answered. As with this law, I address the issue of price, so I hide behind no one, but speak openly about the situation as it is, and as far as my assistant's involvement is concerned, of course she's not engaged in her former business subject, as I hope no one else who points out now is aware of any interests or represents some interests of certain groups is not engaged there. But if you have any problem with that, so you choose to restart that question, it's your right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99245	Thank you. ... Please don't get out of the place, pal, not from the place, not from the place, not from the place. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99246	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I have only one question, it seems to me that through all these discussions we did not, at least reading this law left me with something vague, so I would ask you for an interpretation of it, and it concerns Article 17 where you taxfully stated in the article who should be excluded or who should not receive donations, or who should not be influenced. I'd just like to ask you a question: What about the school board? Is the school board in this as the roofing body, which manages the school, which is why not members of the school board are taken into account? Because I don't see, so it's possible that they'll be the ones who will be influenced by the one who [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99247	The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99248	Thank you very much. This article is actually a literal article that is in the existing law, so there is no change. As for the members of the school boards, yes, I, too, doubted about it, the question is really to consider, but the truth is that the school board members do not make any decision regarding the choice of textbooks. But it's really a matter of thinking, so here's the thing, we'll take care of it one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99249	The next replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99250	Your Honor, Madam Minister, you've made an argument that the old law has left to be written in textbooks. I welcome the view that textbooks should be at least in function for 4 years, but I cannot understand the view that writing in textbooks is developing motor skills, as you said it was an argument. If we have a work book, then I guess it develops motor skills, and I don't see why the textbook wouldn't be that way for it to be 4 years in use and inherited from year to year, and then, in addition to that textbook, the workbook changes from year to year. I see absolutely no reason to write in a textbook when we already have a work book because it is an imposition on a parent or on a local self-government unit that buys students such textbooks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99251	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Divjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99252	Thank you. It was also my initial position, but here is the commission that proposed this, and later and in the public debate we received a lot of remarks that it is not changing, but that it contains the system as it is now, means that there is this working textbook, but only in class class class and only for objects that are identified as crucial to the development of these skills and the meaning of Croatian, we assume perhaps mathematics and foreign language. So it was also a subject of work both on the commission and after that in the public debate we received a lot of remarks which (I) initial You and I share is different.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99253	The next replica is the respected representative of Mira Bulja
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99254	Minister, the textbooks you said in your address, the textbooks have a certain it all once again that textbooks have only elementary school students free of charge in certain counties, that they have, but I have given the amendment 300 million kuna to this budget which is not accepted that all primary students have free textbooks because it is just according to that discipline. I would ask you to secure the money and have all the drawers in the Republic of Croatia have the same conditions, that we have free i.e. Ensure money that parents do not have to pay and most importantly do not forget to pay the money for the most needed eight thousand and more children. That's what's most, that's more, that's what I'm asking you, I know it's important that you advertise your reforms as much as those reforms I'm not going to get into, but don't forget the most needy children. Eight thousand children you forgot to pay the money for the most needed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99255	The Answer of the Honored Minister Divjak
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99256	I've already answered this last one, but I believe it's your friend, and then it's convenient to repeat that question for you, but I admit that's the case, and we won't be outwitting ourselves about it. However, as for the textbooks, of course, if the budget will allow us to do so we will cover everything, but you must know, I have said what millions are about, means only for the primary school of about three hundred million kunas, but we have already foreseen in this proposal and we will see how the matter will continue to develop a significant increase in the co-financing position of textbooks, I am sure that it will grow here during the years, of course, I expect support in the Assembly for such, for such a budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99257	Thank you very much! I'd like to conclude a debate on this point and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99258	Proposal for a Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school, first reading of PZ No. 451, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a Law on textbooks and other educational materials for primary and secondary school and secondly, all observations and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 75 ZA, 15 abstentions and 24 counters, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99259	I now propose that if you agree to bring together the debate on the following three points, as proposed by the parent body of the War Veterans Committee. So these are the points: - Final bill on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading of the PZ No. 385; - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families, Second Reading No. PZ No. 386; - Final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, second reading No. PZ 387; Do you agree to unite the debate on these three laws? Okay, nobody's against it. I see everyone's in. Thank you very much! Now, we're gonna take a 10-minute break and then we're gonna meet for a debate. It's 18.55 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 19.05 HOURS]] Now we'll get back to work. The proposer, therefore, of these three laws that we agreed to bring together the debate is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99261	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Assembly.../The speaker went off and turned it back on./... Excuse me. After a conclusion was reached at the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament on 6 July 2018, which adopted the Bill on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and members of their families, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation of the Homeland War and members of their families, the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, we discussed all objections, proposals and opinions, and developed the final proposals of these three laws. First of all, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. The adoption of a specific Regulation on the Croatian Defence Fund is also provided for in the provisions of Article 130 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families who prescribes the right to participate in the Croatian Defence Fund, members of the family of the death victim, that is, the missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War and Croatian defenders from the Homeland War to members of the fighting sector. With this legal solution, we want to develop certain institutes, i.e. a lack of capacity, to complement new solutions that have not been envisaged so far, and I am referring to the structural changes in the management board of funds which aim to achieve a better quality of the performance of its duties, which include a wider range of representatives of state institutions in the board of directors of the fund, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Property, and a change in the way of proposing and selecting members of the Management Board of the Fund. The responsibility of the Fund Management Board in terms of the extension of powers and its proactive action in the investment of funds shall be extended to increase profits. The greater share of net realised profits from investments will be intended to finance social and humanitarian measures to improve the socio-economic position of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Instead of the previous one-third, for this purpose we now predict one-half and one-quarter for reinvestment and division of dividends. It will address the longstanding problems of the heirs and the outstanding dividends that represent a burden on the fund. The dividend that a member of the fund does not raise in the current year by 31 December of the current year will turn its corresponding share into the fund. In this way, the assets will remain in the fund only in a different form. That is, the share of the fund will increase. In particular, we want to achieve an increase in the wealth and status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The text of the final draft law in relation to the proposal for a law contains the amendments made by respecting the proposal and the remarks made between the two readings. The amendments relate to Article 13 where we propose to be a member of the Management Board of the Fund a representative of the Ministry of Defence responsible for the Croatian defences who would act as vice-president of the Management Board of the Fund. Furthermore, a member of the Management Board would no longer be represented by the Ministry of Economy since the proposal for a law for members of the Management Board provides for representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Property Management. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in This is an article in the liquidation of the fund, it was developed on the HANFA proposal, since it is a specific fund and cannot be applied to the general rules in the establishment and operation of open investment funds with a public offering in the Republic of Croatia. The final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families has no financial effect. The second law in this package is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. that the Foundation has a wider part of the scholarship fund that deals exclusively with the scholarship of users and actively operates once a year when it conducts the tender and award of scholarships, we have proposed to extend the trust in such a way as to achieve and provide financial support for the education of persons referred to in Article 124. Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families and under the conditions set out in the same article of the law. We also propose those provisions of the Law on the National War Foundation and members of their families who prescribe the funding of the foundation to comply with the proposal for a new Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families will now be obtained instead of 1/3 net for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In relation to the text of the draft law, the final proposal for this law has recognised the new technical remarks of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament of 4 July 2018. Furthermore, the initiative of the motionors in Article 1 has been extended to the extent that the Foundation also provides professional support to the Croatian Defence Foundations and members of their families in the preparation and implementation of projects co-financed by EU funds and programmes. In addition to natural persons, professional support shall be provided to associations from the Homeland War, Croatian defence cooperatives and other legal persons whose founders or members of Croatian defenders and members of their families who prepare and implement projects financed from EU funds and programmes aimed at improving the quality of life of the Croatian defenders' population. These changes will achieve a rationalisation of the institutional and legislative framework governing social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families also does not involve financial impact. And say in this package of laws the final bill on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. With this legal solution, we propose to suspend the validity of the Act on a scholarship fund, or to suspend the work of the grant fund and to take over the work of the Fund for scholarships, equipment, writing, etc. documentation of the means of work, financial resources and the rights and obligations of the grant fund as well as employees found in the undertaken jobs, the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. This, as stated in the previous legislative proposal, we want to establish a more economical and efficient system of education support and streamlining the institutional and legislative framework that regulates social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of the Croatian defenders' population. In the reports of the Committee as well as in the first reading parliamentary debate, there was no objection to the draft law so that the text of the final draft law remains the same as the proposal. As a thread in the previous two nor does this legislative proposal have a financial impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99262	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. And the first one, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, will be spoken by Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99263	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, your colleagues and your colleagues. In the first reading of the club MOST on the final draft of the law, he proposed that the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families should be amended, the amended article where we have the possibility, i.e. where it is stated that it is an obligation, that it is not an obligation but that 7% of the companies that are... owned by the State. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're still standing that item can. You simply gave the ministers in your explanation that it was in the second ministry the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Property. But the fact is that this fund needs to be decided, a political decision by this government along with the prime minister of property, state property, to you and everyone who, right now here, is a political decision whether to shut down this fund or whether to be paid into this fund. The fact that this remains can be paid from the sale of shares of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia 7%, which may not be binding. That may lead to this fund in question of survival. So this law does not solve the problem of amending the law, the proposal does not solve the problem of this fund, which is a question of survival if shares are not paid, then it is more correct to say we shut down this fund, and we cannot, we remember from Croatia insurance and other companies when using this one can and did not pay in the defence fund. So that change is very important. As for other funds, other your legal changes, that means I'm staying where you needed to change it or align it with the ministry and you need to work on it because otherwise it doesn't make sense to the fund. As for the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences, so these changes are what they are, harmonize, we have nothing in general against it. Of course this second reason, second law, i.e. The third law we are now discussing is the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, the fact that it has been many years, that it is simply no longer necessary and of course we agree with the shut down of this fund and the accession to the foundation. But the fact is that we have employees there, you're talking about savings here, this, we have people working and you said if all people are going to transfer to this fund, which means that it's basically the same, we just don't have this fund as a legal person, but it's transferred to, we don't have a foundation, but I don't think there's any change. Of course we'll support that, but the point is always the same, simply these employees remain working in the attached fund. I would once again point out these two, the changes are acceptable, but as far as the Croatian defenders' fund is concerned, the most serious thing to think about is the fact that the fund is in trouble if there are no new payments, so this is making a political decision. Either they shut it down and delete this thing can be paid or it will be put on, it has a commitment to the company that is being sold into the defense fund, in that sense this fund has a perspective, and we have both agreed on the board and for this reason I think that at the level of the government and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Property should make this political decision and publicly state whether it is being shut down or whether it remains. Of course, we have many other options here that should be seen from the legal point of view, i.e. These are those obligations that remain, which are constantly and continuously due to the charge of funds and other problems of unsettled campers, killed in families and their children, this is still a problem of war damage from the Republic of Serbia that crosses $30 billion, we certainly have the right to do so as a sovereign state to seek because it is simply not the Croatian Army, nor the Croatian soldier was in Nis and simply the fact that we did not attack ourselves, but simply when their officials come to Croatia and in negotiations should be put much harder, simply they are now harder, i.e.. How much harder to weigh, but they are on the way to European integration, the EU, and certainly Croatia would be in a much better position, not only should Croatia be in a dodgy position, it should not be put forward exclusively when it comes to mocking Vukindar, Chetnik Vukic, of course, and we know why, it should not be mocked by us and the red wallpaper should be put forward, but simply in front of him to present these facts, tell him what the account is, it is a commitment to the Croatian state, it is an obligation to the Croatian defender and of course that what more the ministry should be, and I believe that you are doing, means promoting the truth about the Homeland War because we simply cannot turn the truth that Vučić is coming in Croatia and that he is literally mocking all the victims, of course, who was invited by the President of the Republic of Kolinda Grabarović in that way. You need to invest it more in the truth about the Homeland War, I believe that through both film and human education, through textbooks, and not that we don't know who did the review on history, whether it was England, Spain, who did it, I think that means this much more important moment is about charging war damage, public speaking and loudly whether it's a political decision whether this fund remains, whether it's going to be paid or not to be paid into this defense fund. I think that way we'd be much more correct towards the users of that fund. Here, so this law on the Croatian defence fund in this form cannot be supported, these two other laws will be supported solely because it remains a major questionnaire over this. We have a questionnaire here, a questionnaire on whether or not this fund will remain. I would like the ministers to define this relationship with the government, as I said, and with the Minister of State Assets, because this fund is expected to be said out loud, i.e. Members of the fund, we are to shut down the fund and we cannot pay 7% of the shares or we are obliged to be of all sales of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia that will be privatization, which follows that they will be paid. I think it's the only fair, fair and honest thing. Everything else is a struggle to stay behind this fund. That's a fact, he'll agree with it and fellow Djapic is more amazing, I can see he's smiling when I'm talking, but the facts are like that. I believe this fund deserves, i.e. The members of that fund deserve a clear answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99264	Thank you very much. The next one will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. There are 3 laws ahead of us, 2 are the ones that strictly concern Croatian defenders, one is the abolition of the law on the termination of the law on the fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, i.e. children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. These final proposals to the three laws, which regulate issues of great importance for Croatian defenders, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Foundation of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. So the fundamental changes in relation to the existing Law on the Croatian Defence Fund in the Homeland War are the need to improve the functioning of the fund in this respect. 13th is proposed to include a representative of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Ministry of State Property, with representatives of the Croatian Defence Ministry, where he would be the chairman of the board of directors and his deputy from the ranks of the Croatian Defence Ministry. It is a solution, it is one representative of the mother body of the Croatian Parliament. This is a good solution, as these two ministries have been reached in that fund committee, is of key importance to the existence of the fund. In fact, the real sustainability of Croatian defenders' funds has been questioned lately. So let us remember that it is in accordance with the provisions of Art. 5. 13. The law on privatisation, the privatisation of tax-based legal persons owned by the Republic of Croatia is governed by a special law. So the Privatisation Act of the INA was also passed, as a special law, the Law on the privatisation of HEP, as a special law and the Law on the privatisation of HT as a special law. And these laws determined that 7% of shares should be transferred to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. So, 2010 The privatisation law ceases to apply to the adoption of a law on state property management. This law of Article 36 provides that the Government may exceptionally decide on a proposal from the competent ministry in relation to the basic activity of the company and, with the agreement of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. On that proposal, shares or business shares in a particular company shall also be made available in a different way than those prescribed by the provisions of the Article. 32-34th of the law in order to achieve certain economic interests or to fulfil the obligation of the Republic of Croatia. Under this implementation of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia, the needs of Croatian defenders can be clearly defined, i.e. Croatian defenders' fund. In 2013, the Law on management and availability of property owned by the Republic of Croatia, which ceased to apply by the 2010 law, contained almost identical provisions in Article 1(1), was adopted. In the year 36 and finally 2018, a State Property Management Act was adopted, which ceased to be in force and also contained a provision allowing the Government of the Republic of Croatia to exceptionally dispose of property even though this law did not provide for it when it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. This is also described in Art. Article 2 What each of these three laws contains is provisions on the obligation to comply with the shares of Croatian wartime wartime people and members of the family of the mortally injured or, incarcerated or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War, who were not entitled to shares without charge under the Privatisation Act. The fact is that there are no legal obligations for the state to transfer when privatised, state-owned companies to the Croatian defenders' fund without charge. But it's also the fact that the most endangered members... The population on this issue is not left to the case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore extremely important that the Fund's Management Board also sits representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Assets, as it will have direct insight into the financial situation and sustainability of the Fund, which will allow for a better and timely decision-making of the introduction of 7% of shares of state-owned companies that should be regulated by law. Furthermore, a good solution is related to the problem of the outstanding dividends, in Art. It is determined on the 45th that the dividend belonging to a member of the fund, i.e. the holding of a holding, for which it does not apply for payment, is not raised until the 31.12th year in which the specified amount of dividend is determined, will be corresponding to its turnover, i.e. the share in the fund. So he becomes the owner, the increased owner of the fund. And that's me thinking it's good that 100 and some million kunas that lie now will be deployed, again will be in the fund as increased stakes. The applicant also provided information that not paid dividends are a burden on the fund and at the end of 2017 the outstanding dividends were 111 million kuna. In this way, the share of members will then increase, and the property will remain in the fund only in another form. As for the foundation, funds are used not only to pay dividends but also to deploy in the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families who again invest in social humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. In accordance with the provisions of Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 44th final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families half of their net profits from investments is intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and is specifically intended for a legal person established to improve the economic and material position of Croatian defenders. This purpose is also intended for institutions to provide support and services to the defence victims and other persons. It is a significant increase in the share of the profits from which the Fund is financed, which so far amounted to one third of the profits. The Croatian Foundation. Adviser from the Homeland War and members of their families are also veteran centres as public institutions for providing support and services to the defence and victims population, as well as institutions for providing support and services to the defense victims who are being founded, which are forming units of local and regional self-government. Since the adoption of the first Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, Croatian needs have changed. A defender from the Homeland War and members, well, which led to the establishment of a facility to provide support and services to a defensively injured population. The Croatian defenders' fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is an institution that faces a large number of requests for financial assistance due to serious diseases and deaths of Hrv. defenders and members of their families, to provide financial assistance for the heavily vulnerable families of Croatian defenders as well as for other purposes. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their family introduces new ways of achieving the purpose of the Foundation, except for the introduction of the right to support education, resulting from the termination of the Act on (fund) on the scholarship of Croatian Defence and Children of Hrv. In particular, the defenders enter the eyes and measures to provide professional support to Croatian defenders and members of their families in the preparation and implementation of projects co-financed by the European Union funds and programmes. These measures were introduced on the proposal initiative and it is said that among the defence population, Croatian defenders are entrepreneurs, craftsmen and Croats. defenders are not only users of the benefits that individuals like to be highlighted for day-to-day political purposes, but also to fill the state budget with their work and deal with all the problems facing the real sector on a daily basis. This measure is worth every praise as it points to the preparedness of the resolution ministry to enable and ensure all necessary mechanisms and makes it easier for Croatian defenders to access funds from the European Funds as well as European Union programmes. These measures will certainly contribute to their survival in the market, development, improvement and business, as well as the development of defence social, social or working cooperatives that are of paramount importance for psycho-social empowerment and health rehabilitation, as well as to easier and faster reintegration of members of the Association into society, as well as the inclusion in the working and economic processes of members with reduced working capacity and unemployed persons. Here, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, I can clearly say that all this has been done in these new legislative proposals as well as the abolition of the Law is for the purpose of improving the status of Croatian defenders and members of their families as well as children, and we believe and hope that the fund will continue to work on what it has done so far, which is 87,000 scholarships paid from the Fund and 45,000 different aids that have been sent to our friends and comrades for the sake of trust and that there will continue to be ways to strengthen the Fund and to continue to be a self-port and support to those who need it most, and who meet the conditions. The HDZ Club supports these bill proposals and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99266	Thank you very much. The next SDP representative's club on behalf of which the respected representative Predrag Matic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associate, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this set of laws that we are talking about today, the Fund Act and following the Act that goes along with it, the Fund Act and the Scholarship Fund are quite fine, and we can immediately say that the SDPs will support them. My colleagues used to talk about many things about these laws, I would only say a few remarks, praises and comments about it, but first just two sentences to know why and how the Fund came about. So, in the 1990s, while defenders were killed by trenches, Serbian camps were prisoners known to have been the famous Croatian privatisation, 200 families, relatives, "parents", party friends, cousins and the like, robbed Croatia and left only unfortunately crumbs from the table and then 10 years ago thanks to some of our colleagues, fellow fighters who launched this initiative, I will mention several names, but, Branko Borković, Đuro Dečak, Mercep, Zvone Milas, Petar Lovrić and there were probably other colleagues who started the story and Croatian defenders received their own fund, which, unfortunately, would have been much more funds, but here is now that Croatian defenders from the Croatian firm received 7% of the Croatian Telecom and the INA. A few as I said the remarks, commendations and comments on the law itself, so Article 6 says that the allocations will be towards Croatian defenders and should be said that as of the New Year, Croatian defenders will also become defenders of the HVO and since we do not know whether they will be 10, 20, 30, 50, and God knows how much they will be, then the questionable and present value of the share that will have to be shared with ours, as some like to tell the BiH brothers, so we will see how much they will be, what will be the value of the stake. The term of office of the Board of Directors of the Fund for 4 years, I have not seen in the law that the re-election is envisaged, means that they will probably remain for 4 years, although the Foundation provides for the possibility of re-election. As for the investment of assets, I commend that part because so far it has been very, very conservative, I would say almost nothing could have been done, although it remains unclear for me that this loan can go from 5% to 50% to third parties, of course it says there with insurance and this, and that, but the defenders have already been burned several times so I don't know what kind of insurance it will be. I also commend the distribution of dividends, a quarter of the defenders, a quarter of the reinvestment and half of the foundation where, and I also commend Article 45, so we who are working with it know that they were enormous losses because there are a large number of Croatian defenders and you have seen it on this case ourselves but good about it only as data so as Ivo Sanader per day, they have the right to some dividends and of course do not raise dividends and dividends for years because the amount of their dividend is less than the price of parking in front of FINA to come up to raise that dividend. However, mic per mitz, kuna per kuna at one point it seemed to me even 100 million kunas so on. in the air nowhere. Not on the defense attorney's accounts, not on the fund's account, not on the FINA's account. With this provision of the law, if the defendant does not raise his dividend, he will be attributed to his share. As for the unrespectable proposals of the MOST on the introduction of the obligation 7% least for Croatian defenders and members of their families, I agree that this is not the subject of the law, but here we have heard from fellow Djakic just before and in the new law it can be given again and when something can mean that he does not. And I remind you that, on the promise of our Prime Minister INA, it should once again cross over into the hands of Croatia, which means that a strategic partner will probably be found again, so maybe it will be resold so that 7% should go to the defenders again without talking about the shares of HEP where the stake would be, the defence stake could be measured in billions. As for the proposals my party had on the composition of the board of directors, so I don't mind but I have to comment on that, so four Croatian defenders, minister plus deputy, and then a representative of the Parliament, a representative of the two Ministry of State Assets and Finance. Of course, in the current constitution of forces and ministers, I suppose and the deputy will be Croatian defenders. Even the representative of the Parliament is a Croatian defender and minister of state property, I think he's even a Croatian defender. I guess the only minister of finance isn't. But it doesn't always have to be, if we're writing a law for a long time it can repeat the INA case where defenders will be in minority and can be outvoted, which means the government's influence on the defender is very large again. Here's to maybe obeying our proposal, just to raise two defenders, the board of directors still has almost a billion kuna, that's not small and small. If there were 6 Croatian defenders and 5 representatives of the government, however, the influence of the defender would be much greater if anything were voted on by the defenders. I welcome, of course, this second Act on the Foundation where their one-third receipts go to one-half and the Foundation takes over the jobs of the Trust Fund, which is being shut down but we must say that it has played a very positive role and I thank this way to all who have worked on it because they have brought in more than 85,000 scholarships that have helped the defenders themselves, as well as children of Croatian defenders who are in a socially difficult, materially difficult situation to attend, and this has been a major role as a scholarship fund. Thus, the Foundation, which otherwise plays a large and significant role and helps defenders and members of their families in difficult social, material situations. It's a shame she couldn't have done that by now. Now, taking over the role and the Fund, their importance and responsibility will be much greater and wider. Finally, the SDP will support this package of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, the Foundation and the Scholarship Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99268	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. And first came the Honorable Representative, Davor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99269	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister with an associate. As regards the Law on the termination of the Fund for the scholarship of defenders and children of defenders, I believe that during the period of existence, the Fund has contributed to the training of both defenders and children through programmes for financial co-financing of the number of weaker assets of our students who have used assistance through the work of this law. However, due to a small number of new requirements, there has been a shut-down of the said fund but the Ministry of Defence has still found a way to help current and future users by proposing a new Law on the Croatian Defence Fund to take over the current law where the plan and programme will find a financial way to support student scholarships. As so far, the Croatian Defence Fund has provided assistance to vulnerable families through assistance in healthcare, care, treatment, education, employment will continue, because for the needs of help they will have more resources because of the fewer users who reduce from year to year and... distributions make net profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should also be noted that the aim of the Foundation is to extend to assist in the preparation of projects in relation to European funds. As far as difficult jobs are concerned about the new structure, everything is regulated through the provisions indicating exactly the tasks, comparisons of those appointed for the offer of these three laws on Croatian defenders. As regards the Croatian defenders' fund, it was first adopted 15 years ago and in the meantime it had two amendments where interventions were found necessary for the framework set up by the Fund in order to ensure transparent and efficient business and regulate legal situations that are in practice due to the share of investment in the distribution of assets, etc. which so far has not been resolved. Also to the current way, more should be provided for investment than social measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders and their families. Through... Investments all this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] for new legitimate reasons and for providing assistance, support and services, which is necessary... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatian defenders' populations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order for all of this to happen, it is necessary to resolve this law, the rights of membership of the fund, the status of members of the fund, the position of heirs due to succession, the quality of distribution by the fund, the expansion of the competence of the fund, the increase... working and adopting a new strategy, a new way of dividing from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] obtain this solution to the division of dividends burdened by the fund. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Very, well complex are all indicators in favour of the defence population through the final draft law, and each article... Emphasises the benefits of every defender and their family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99270	Thank you very much. The next debate is that respected representative, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99271	Thank you very much. I'll be brief, though I'll talk about every law, no matter what they are, which is a united debate. So, when it comes to this Law on the Croatian Defence Fund, this 2004 law and certain amendments in 2008, he called for amendments in order to in fact strengthen the support of the defence victims' population, especially through providing financial assistance to those heavily vulnerable families of defenders and vulnerable families of Croatian defenders and members of their families. So, as far as I'm concerned, full support for the forward solutions in this law, because this fund is an open investment fund, it continues to characterise the existence of members and the stability of the value of the stakes themselves. Also through this fund, through these changes, when the stakes were determined or the status and rights of the heirs were determined, the share was allocated, and it is now only after the introduction of some funds, i.e. assets into the fund and, of course, the issue of those restrictions on the availability of the shares itself has been resolved. When it comes to the management fund, he would have arranged, therefore, the composition of the management fund, what has been mentioned here and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of State Property and, according to counterpart Djakic, will now have a better insight, but I would say they will have a better and stronger responsibility when they have such insight. In addition, this is a good thing that would be extended, I say from my experience, which would extend the powers of the management fund, therefore, the adoption of the rules for the selection of society, the selection decision of the fund would approve both the strategy and the availability of the assets, the contracts that the donor company would also have to approve, and then the transparency and... It would also be more precise and clearer to prescribe the relationship of the company, then based on the principles of business of the company, the limitations of the amount and the compensation, etc. If I didn't, it would be determined and distributed, which is special, here is how much I saw, all of them from the debate, especially commended it, to the members, - for the reinvested and one half of the net profits in the distribution would be directed to develop development social and humanitarian measures that would help improve the status of Croatian defenders and members of their family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, so much for this law. And what should be particularly supported is the strengthening of the very foundation of Croatian defenders, with the purpose of improving their economic and material position. In particular, through financial assistance for heavily endangered social families, for heavily endangered families, assistance, care and treatment, assistance after the death of Croatian defenders and what is a good thing, especially financial assistance for the acquisition of interest, retraining, retraining, exceptional schooling and, of course, someone mentioned, there are entrepreneurs and those who would like to be entrepreneurs, so we also have this financial help for employment and self-employment. And this third, to stop the operation of the Croatian defense fund, there is a logic someone said 87, I have the data 85 but no matter how much it has been allocated in these 12 years of scholarships, it requires logic to the mind, it says every year less and therefore the existence of 2 legal persons, one trust fund, it is not economical. Well, after all, it costs this end of the fund, and I welcome the more that all its activities go into the foundation. So to conclude all of these three sequences, and also from experience, because I was a member of the management fund for a time. I feel this improvement as a strong step towards better and better quality care for Croatian defenders and members of their families, and of course I will personally support this proposal. And one more sentence, supporting the minister to take as much as possible through his government and through his actions to further empower the funds related to the let's just as someone here said 7%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99272	Thank you very much. The Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved will say something finally on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I want to express my gratitude for the constructive debate and for the support we have identified through your presentations here. Another brief reference to, in addition to the explanation of our initiative and related to the rationalization of structural forms. So there are two legal persons, two administrations and all that goes along with it, two spaces etc.. So the clarification, the scholarship fund in each respect justifies its business only at last year's level is over 6,000 scholarships. What's important here is to emphasize all the staff, all their assets are being transferred into the foundation, and that staff continues to do their job. But what is important to stress is that this activity since the call for tendering for scholarships and doing those technical activities around scholarships is once a year and that actually the rest of the time a year is not an excuse for the existence of that organisation. And this is one of the reasons why we are also in order to rationalise the formational forms of the Ministry of Croatian Defence, and ultimately the staff will be doing those jobs that the employees of the Foundation or the Foundation are doing throughout the rest of the year. Here we come to other projects that we are carrying out, which is the establishment of our integrated single database on our staff, on Croatian defenders, on members of their families, on their availability, on the basis of which all those parameters are made to provide support by the Foundation, on the provision of support by or for the purpose of scholarship. All of this is supported by these arguments and ultimately by a single organisation solution that will be fully supported by the Croatian Defence Ministry and they will surely and futurely meet their purpose. So here we are, as a ministry in the role of good lord and very thorough monitoring and analysis, as we have so far found the most optimal and quality and organisational and functional solutions and all in order to support the population of Croatian defenders and members of their families. Once again, I thank you for the constructive debate and for supporting our initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99274	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate and we will vote on these laws when the conditions are met. And we're done with today's work, and I wish you good night and night, and I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. when we'll discuss the entire day on set 6 of the Retirement, Pension Law Act. ... It will be, it will be. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The session was interrupted at 20.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-10-24-0.u99275	Final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, second reading of the PZ No. 385, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 112 votes are ZA, passed the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. I'll just open the session, say hello to everyone, good morning, respected MPs and MPs. I should announce the agenda first, and then I'll give you my word. So today we're going to talk about laws related to pension reform, the proposal is that in a united debate, it's law, it's 3 and 3. They would first go to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, and the Proposal for an Employment Act with an increased duration and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements on the add-on to pensions made under the Pension Insurance Act. Are we okay with that? If we are, then please fellow Petrov, go ahead. You're the first? That fellow coat of arms, all right.
