ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65739	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I'm looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club to talk about tax policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65740	He's a friend of Grumo's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65741	On behalf of the MOST Club, I demand a 10-minute break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65742	I'm a colleague of Lenart's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65743	I'm asking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the House of Representatives Club about the problems in the Sisak Refinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65744	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65745	... an international agreement on the succession of the former state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65746	Did you hear from your colleague Maras? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65747	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a 10-minute break in view of the current political situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65748	Okay. A colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65749	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break on the topic of the current political situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65750	Okay. That's it. 9.45 is a sequel. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] The first is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA and the esteemed Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65752	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Croatia has a height of 2nd VAT in Europe right behind Hungary, which has a 27% rate. According to EU instructions, VAT should not be below 15% and the lowest VAT in Europe has a Luxembourg at 17%. The Croatian VAT is huge, and the ruling HDZ party agrees, which also wrote on page 6 of its programme "Reliable". Among other things, HDZ wrote on page 8 of the "Reliable" programme that it will reduce the overall VAT rate in the second year of office and another percentage point to 23% in the last year of its term of office, so in 2020. According to Minister Maric and some other government officials, we see that it is giving up, and now it is mentioned that VAT will decrease in the second half of the mandate, meaning not in the second year but in the second half, but only by one percentage point, which means that 23% has dropped. To justify this, the government states that it will lose revenue, while at the same time not saying that these revenues will not disappear but will go to those who need it, means to the economy and citizens, which will result in greater consumption, job creation, GDP growth and even tax revenues. If VAT was reduced by one percentage point, this year would mean two billion kunas less in the budget or two percentage points would be four billion kunas less. Since tax revenues increased by five billion kuna only in 2017 alone, and we also see in budget projections that will continue to increase, it is clear that there is a space for VAT reduction. The simple VAT revenue should be left at the current level and the rest of the money returned to the economy. In particular, it should be done because the government boasts that it has a surplus budget so when we reduce VAT or taxes when we have surplus, it is now an ideal opportunity. However, we see not only that it is giving up but the VAT reduction is conditioned by an increase in the rate. So the government says we're going to cut the VAT by 1% if we simultaneously raise rates for bread or milk or worse, the government says we're going to cut VAT, but at the same time we're going to introduce real estate tax. So that's the classic policy of spilling from hollow to empty, I give you 100 kuna to take you 200, that's our government's policy. So they're not going to tax discharge, they're going to simply deceive the citizens so they can say that they've spent at least part of their program. It is unfortunate that HDZ accuses others of populistism and does not adhere to their own programme, which is also pretentiously referred to as ‘Religious’. They used to mock "Plan 21", and we see that they are acting the same as the ones they have recently criticised. And I therefore call on the HDZ government to introduce new rules into politics, to stick to their own words and pre-election promises because this is the best way to restore citizens' confidence in institutions, as well as politics in general. If anything, HDZ colleagues should know that this is the best way to win another term in the next parliamentary elections. If, however, the government does not reduce the VAT until October 14th when the second year of office expires, and obviously will not, then I expect a public apology from those who wrote a pre-election programme of the HDZ, and in particular the prime minister, Finance Minister Maric and the chairman of the Assembly Committee on Finance. Finally, I want to say this, we need to do economic projections to not only lower VAT rates but to return to 22% as it was in pre-recession times, and ultimately to reduce to 19% as currently in Germany or Romania. The VAT should also be reduced immediately to food as it is in the neighbouring countries. Croatia should inter alia be fought for VAT exemptions that have so-called old EU members, not others, impose a tax policy against the interests of the most vulnerable groups of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65753	The second debate, the Most Representatives' Club and respected colleague Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65754	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to use this break as an appeal to make sure the Sisak refinery doesn't disappear. Here I invite you all to gather all the positive professional and political forces and options for Sisak refinery not to be another one in a series of those who turned their backs, shrugged their shoulders and continued to claim that it was unprofitable without any studio analysis and trying to do anything. We all know that the Hungarian MOL moved into the INA Croatian Perjanica, an industry of strategic importance that had only failed over the years because MOL was not in the interest of doing good business and survival, and it had very much a prerequisite for market and strategic, even three supply routes and high security supplies. In view of its geographical location, the refinery should have played a special role in increasing security of supply of oil to the Southeast and Central European countries, it can supply oil from Omis, from the Middle East, Africa, Russia and the North Sea with JANAF. It can import JANAF oil from Hungary and this stock is reversible, which means the possibility of transporting oil in both directions and access to the river port and close to Zagreb. But none of this has been used and politics has not retreated even when the INA Mol is in a situation where the HDZ or government and the highest people of that government are caught with their fingers in a jam. Today, so much interest is networked and obviously there's no political will to get rid of anything. On the principles of Doing Business, MOST wanted to launch processes that would result in better relations, to improve communication with the Hungarians whether the announcement of the closure of the important work of the refinery is going towards achieving the long-standing MOL's desire to close refinery production in Sisak. After MOL achieved that INA gave up bitumen production, the strategic raw materials that Croatia today obtains from the MOL plant in Hungary and after INA gave up selling its products in Serbia, it is clear that this is another move that pushes the mammalian refinery into the abyss. The refinery points out that it will do so by justifying bad business although the INA results are not published only for the mammalian refinery and when this FCC drive is shut down and the results are published at the end of this year then of course they will be negative. I would remind you that MOST is precisely for the protection of national interests for the first time in Croatia's history voted in favour of the disbandment of the parliament, that the government was torn down and that HDZ brought down its own prime minister, which is a shameful episode in Croatian political history, of course in the history of HDZ, but there were a lot of embarrassing episodes, and if a colleague of Bunjac were to apologize, they would have nothing to say but to apologize in the Croatian Parliament. So MOST insisted on the protection of national interests and therefore said no and any overlap with HDZ and all of the MOST's representatives voted to disband the Croatian Parliament even though there were all sorts of offers. I would remind you that MOST also offered a model for the purchase of INA but for this model, although independent experts worked on it, although it was supported by the professional public, there was no hearing in the Croatian government. From the government, the only promise we have is the Christmas promise from Prime Minister Plenkovic that he will return to the INA in Croatian hands but we can see that there is nothing from that promise. We have a model, if the problem is that it is MOST's model, we give up that model because this is about higher interests, we hand it over to the HDZ and Croatian government, so that INA can return to Croatian hands and we don't get what's happening to us and in the case of the Sisak refinery. I think that all together, regardless of the political sign, the political option that we belong to, that we should work together on these issues that are of national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65755	Thank you. The third debate, the HSS Representatives' Club and esteemed colleague Zeljko Lenart, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65756	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I want to talk about is the problem of the mammal's refinery. It's a problem that doesn't occur for the first time, this is already not sure which time in the refinery the number of jobs should be reduced and the mammalian refinery should be closed. I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, in my time as head and mayor, I know the situation very well in the county, one of the largest counties, but my people, one of the poorest counties. Last week I was talking about Petrokemija Kutina where the same dirty business is happening, one of the biggest industrial plants, today the industrial plant of the refinery, Sisak, the city that was always standing on the defender of Croatia and during the Turks and during the Homeland War, ran out of ironworks, without many craftsmen, without many smaller companies, should now remain as everything looks and without a refinery. The INA statement says that the closure of the FCC facility will shut down maximum 40 places and then at the bottom is said if we fail to redistribute the workers within the company, they will be taken care of and get severance, so they will also get fired and as long as this tries to wrap up the cellophane and put on a nice bow, it is still here to destroy the town of Sisak, the town that has become the dormitory of those who work in Zagreb, who are lucky or who may still be sleeping in Sisak and will soon sleep either in Germany or in another country where they will find order and where they will try to find their place under the sun to live. Even those who work in the refinery are thinking about leaving Sisak, from the refinery because it has become so insecure that they are concerned about their families. A colleague of Grmoy here said the importance of the refinery, its geostrategic position, there is simply no good reason why the Sisak refinery would be closed. I am concerned that local but also county authorities had a soft view of what is going on in the Sisak refinery and in the Sisak refinery, even the head of the union got fired, which I haven't heard in the Republic for a long time, means that all that is going on with the Sisak refinery is a dirty business that happens not only in Sisak but throughout the Republic. I therefore appeal to the Prime Minister, those who have the parliamentary majority, here among the first HDZ, the HDZ, and all of us to think not only about a clean profit, about those haired reports, but about those people who still live in this Sisak and that neighborhood, who has become so poor, that every minor earthquake, leads to us getting one huge space without people, without Croatian citizens. And I don't know who's going to live here and who's going to pay, and this VAT, which is here, Mr. Bunjac has proposed a 1% reduction should reduce it more and refer it to the local level, because unfortunately, the state collects a lot of money, and very little care about the assets of the Republic of Croatia, especially in this remaining part of the industry that we have, which has practically disappeared in Croatia, both citizens and the fates of workers, their children and those who should stay here in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65757	4th debate, a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović, on behalf of the Representatives' Club independent of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65758	Dear colleagues, did Croatia win the last war, the last war, an open question. We had decades to make independent institutions, primarily the judiciary, to bring economics, that economic, human, scientific illustration, none of it was. To take our geostrategic position to strengthen Croatia in this part of Europe at global level, where we are today. Let's look at some other topics here, for example. agreement on the succession of former Yugoslav states there, signed in 2001 in Vienna, which went to check in 2004. '90s all and you're talking about refinery, etc., etc. And what is this? '90s. g all the property, movable and immovable property, all in that country, the failed state, held Serbia, that Serbia, Yugoslavia, 1990. Mr. What's happened since then? There was to be a division of these goods from that fallen state, not only of the goods, but also of the debts. For example. Today, Croatia pays almost 30% of the former South's debt, which is 1990. Mr. Was... 20 billion dollars. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, war damages are $35 billion. It looks a little weird, doesn't it, on that matter. Of 123 consulates and diplomatic representations outside, Croatia was expected to receive 24%, up to today 60% of these, the property legal status of these consulting offices outside has not been resolved. Well, they tried to sort out their own pocket, for example. One of our former parties sitting here on my left when he stole down from the Sydney embassy that the Croats built and put furniture and container on and sent for Croatia. We shouldn't be building those embassies if we got back what belongs to us. You have a bank for international disputes, which is dedicated to Croatia, out of $1 billion found outside, it is fairly stolen and hidden, out of $1 billion should be paid back 29% of Croatia belongs to gold and foreign currency which Serbia has hidden, which is the issue. You have anex D, the most sensitive anex here that is silent, it's the return of all archives, cultural goods, audiovisual means all, it's never returned anything back. And also open access to archives, that's what some fear about why they're afraid of, because there are documents that can endanger someone's political future. Some are valued, I used to say in this House and must not be in public life because the UDBE files are in Belgrade. Anex D nothing has been done to this day. Here, I'm also talking about destroyed documents, it's libericide, intentional destruction of documentation, but without archives, no state can function normally. There are archives down there, e.g. the original contract... About which in the old south of the day Istria, half a million inhabitants, all the way to Zadar and the islands, which joined Italy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a dispute there today, it's going with Slovenia. There you have an agreement, in fact, when the border was added, 6.7 Croatian villages were added to Slovenia, there, it is not a real line of the Dragon River, it was done by the communists in '50. Mr. That's part of our cultural heritage, it's down there yet, it hasn't been returned. What about the old savings? We remember the Ljubljanska banka, when we talk about Piran Bay, here. 300,000 people asked for a return, a total of 385 million euros, how much until today is paid? But the total value of the total value in Yugoslavia, movable and immovable assets, '90s. She was standing on 60 billion U.S. dollars at the time. What happened to that? And what hasn't been returned and what games of Serbia still plays today? $6 billion, which belonged to all of these, has spent Serbia on military equipment for the former countries that came from Yugoslavia. Never brought back, gone. Another $5 billion, Milosevic stole, because it was a debt from Iraq, Russia, which they took from Yugoslavia, and it was spent in the exchange for gas and oil, never returned. And while we await the return of those goods, What belongs to Croatia should be prohibited from Croatia's access to all European integrations and pensions in Serbia. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Glasnović.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65759	Thank you. Before presenting my esteemed colleague Davor Bernardic, I would just like to welcome the students of Ferdinandovac Elementary School from Ferdinand. Welcome... Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives and Honored counterpart Davor Bernardic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65760	I also join the greetings of students and students and, of course, welcome teachers who have come together. I've seen a lot of jokes on my own these days, a lot of criticism, but that's the way it's supposed to be. Freedom of expression is a prerequisite that pushes society forward. Because freedoms can only be feared by those who are insecure in themselves, who are weak and who have no vision and I want Croatia to be strong, not to be weak, to face its problems, to face all the challenges ahead of it, to be innovative and to start solving problems. It is the first prerequisite to start solving problems, not to push things under the carpet as in the case of INA, as in the case of the INA, that the plan for INA, the impelation for INA for a year cannot come here in this Assembly on the agenda, that guilt is transferred from one to another, that solutions are offered, instant solutions and creates a false impression in the media that something is done, and in fact nothing is done but delayed, a problem that is not solved. And that's something where we really have to ask ourselves what as a society we can do to move it. I want the government and the ruling not to replace the HRT supervisory board that warns of corruption, I do not want young people and girls to be arrested because of a different opinion on Facebook, I do not want them to try to influence the Croatian Broadcasting Programme by prohibiting the broadcasting of certain pages, I do not want freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of mind as energy grows, while fuel is growing, while food prices continue to grow while people are moving and living harder. And it doesn't matter what's good for each of us, it matters what's good for society. Croatia must also begin to change its priorities. There were plenty of experts, advisers, people who offer solutions to all Croatian problems every day saying what to do, how to solve the problem, and actually not solve anything and standing in place. Will that hire young people? He won't. Will their expertise ensure that people in the country stay? He won't. Will Croatia be a more innovative country for this? He won't. And that's the problem right there. That's exactly the chance as a society and as a country we have to take advantage of. While young people, while individual politicians in Croatia change, local politicians name the streets and squares our young people walk European streets and squares looking for work. While some of our politicians are great spinners, they are great at selling stories, spins and sifting information to Croatia when it comes to innovation and competitiveness is the last thing in Europe. And that is a huge problem for Croatia. And that is why it is our task to release the potential primarily of young people in the country who are left here, who can and want to build the future in Croatia, to let them express themselves freely, to let them say what they have to say, to let them freely create our plan for young people together not only with the SDP, with all the people who want to join us on that path, to let them take advantage of their freedom. And that's what's key. Because freedom is one of the most important things. Freedom of expression, freedom of idea, freedom of action. Without freedom, there's nothing. And if we don't ask ourselves as a society, as people who live in this country where many pages have disappeared in recent days, numerous Facebook pages, many sites where people express their views freely. First of all, the next question we might be asking is that freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65761	And the latest presentation of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65762	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, before me there were already 5 requested breaks during the morning that opened up really important political, economic, social issues in Croatia. However, apart from the fact that some representatives here, in the name of their clubs, have stressed the importance of each of these issues, nothing important will be solved, so it would be good to call for that freedom, democracy, lack of freedom, democracy in Croatia to use at least what parliamentary representatives have, and this is the right to propose solutions to the same problems that are highlighted this morning, both in the case of VAT and in the case of the Sisak Refinery and in the case of Petrochemia and in the case of Oil. I have to say that the government is right on that trail and it's working and it's working, and I'd say very spotlessly when it comes to oil and when it comes to Petrochemy, and here we've heard announcements on the latest current morning about VAT reduction. I would remind my colleague, Bunjec, that the reduction in VAT rates, the overall VAT rates will not increase the economy's revenues. You probably know that VAT is a transitional tax that will reduce revenues to the state budget, and by reducing the general rate, but will increase, or reduce the expenditure of citizens who are obliged to pay VAT on the product delivered and the service. Thus, we will make life easier for Croatian citizens by reducing the overall VAT rate, as the prime minister has announced here at the current morning, and also announced by the finance minister. Therefore, whether this will be October 14th, which is not exactly expected to reduce such an important provision of one biggest tax in a given date, makes the biggest revenue side of the state budget likely, or if this occurs on January 1st, it will not change significantly. The government will keep its promise from the programme in part. And I expect that it will indeed happen, that there will be a reduction in the VAT rate on this already I say explicitly here the prime minister answered the question. As for the refinery Sisak is exactly a colleague of Lenart, he left, said the problems of the Sisak Refinery were not since yesterday, neither today nor the Sisak Refinery nor the Rijeka Refinery. Since MOL entered the INA as a strategic partner, MOL's commitment has been, and since 2002, at the time of Ivica Racan's government, the obligation of MOL was to ensure, allow for reconstruction and modernisation and the Refinery of Rijeka and the Refinery of Sisak. Partly this modernization was made in Rijeka, not entirely, something in Sisak, but not entirely. I wish, instead of his colleagues, Mr. Dobrovic, had just arrived, he had said something about it because he was Minister of Energy and Minister of Environmental Protection, he knows very well what the obligations were to approach modernization and Rijeka as a whole and Sisak. If the project had been realised, that modernisation had been made in the scope and scope of how it was thought and designed, surely today these problems with the existence of the FCC would not have been, although it was said by Minister Coric and Prime Minister Plenkovic not to consider stopping the refinery business in Sisak, that it would continue and that this would be a transitional period that would allow further operations of the refinery itself. Therefore, the unions are rightly concerned about the fate and continuation of work in the Sisak Refinery, but we have both heard from the minister and the prime minister that there is no talk of stopping work and interrupting the refinery business in the Sisak refinery itself. So what the government can do, and what the government does is best seen, it feels in the growth of all macroeconomic indicators that talk about improving the economy and otherwise living and living standards and the lives of our citizens. So when we talk about this, we talk about GDP growth, we talk about export growth, growth in production, growth in minimum wage, growth in average wages in Croatia. So that all that is happening in part and because of the reforms that have been made will enable what counterpart Bunjac was saying earlier, which is that we will reduce our fellow citizens' tax obligations and further contribute to their better living standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65763	My colleague Maras, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65764	Injured Rules of Procedure Mr. President, we will now come to the article, not you Bukarica Mr. Bacic, so the article is 248th now will read it quickly and say that I am right to the president, and that is that this is not Mr. President-in-Office of the current morning of Mr. Bačić, meaning that he listens to all these breaks and then he gives answers. We are not interested in your summary of our objections, you asked for a break to tell you something about what is going on in Croatia, and then you used it to have your current clock here and to give people answers. So I know that you want to update and frequent the current clock, but we will not allow it to turn into the current HDZ and Plenkovic clock without the possibility of responding to those who ask the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u65765	My colleague Maras has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure, and I'm giving you a warning about what you've done now. Moving to the agenda, the first item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, Second Reading, P.Z. number 182. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. The first item is - Final proposal for a law on amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 182. We got two hands in the air, three, four, five.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67821	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and distinguished MPs. We have before us the final text of the draft laws amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act because this is a second reading and I will remind only of the reasons why we went to the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Namely, the amendments and additions have been accessed solely because of received eu pilots and infringements of rights. Namely, most of the provisions of the directives and regulations in question have already been transposed into Croatian legislation and this law only implements further harmonisation and transposition of the remaining provisions because, if we do not do so, we are threatened by pilots, or the possible penalisation of the Republic of Croatia for not implementing the provisions of the directives which are in force within the EU. By law, the administrative order of the Republic of Croatia has transposed the provisions of four directives and one regulation to further comply with the acquis. Directive 52/2014 speaks of an assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, and we have more specifically addressed existing definitions and steps in the assessment procedures from this provision. We have prescribed jurisdiction in the case of a possible conflict of interest, the possibility of extending the time limit for carrying out the evaluation procedure on the need to assess and the obligation to draw up an explanation of a particular decision in the solution. In the light of the current situation prior to the entry into force of the local authorisation or other approval for the implementation, the environmental impact assessment procedure shall be carried out, according to the expert basis of the evaluation or assessment of the need for assessment, and here is the expert basis for the procedures referred to in the Regulation. For example, the assessment for irrigation surfaces below 5,000 hectares is even higher, and the assessment is used to irrigate the surface below 2,000 hectares. The evaluation and evaluation procedures prior to decision-making include information and public participation, expert assessment of the participation of regional and local self-government units, competence in the implementation of the procedure is at national or county level. These procedures are in line with the provisions of the relevant directive, which is a condition for the approval of EU funds. The following directive, which we have implemented, is Directive No. 30 since 2013 and it regulates the safety of offshore oil and gas activities, so it complements the contents of an intervention plan in the work related to coastal facilities and related infrastructure, procedures and measures to reduce damage to the marine environment, the elimination of environmental damage. Obligations shall be prescribed for relevant operators, i.e. owners and holders of approval of offshore facilities. According to the current state of play in the current law, the obligation of the Republic of Croatia is to ensure the development of a state intervention plan for sudden sea pollution. Currently applicable regulations regulate the content and manner of adopting an intervention plan for sudden pollution as well as a mechanism of mutual cooperation with countries that could be affected by sudden pollution of the sea. State intervention plan and plans that are required to develop coastal facilities operators for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, etc. The internal plans, they're mutually consistent. Directive 75 of 2010 regulates the integrated prevention of non-contamination control, further regulates provisions governing the obligations and behaviour of operators in relation to environmental permits, which is very important, further regulates the content of requirements and environmental permits, the way and time limits are extended from 5 years to 10 years, the examination of the environmental authorisation under official duty and in the area of cross-border impact of emissions, installations and cross-border participation is defined by coordinated inspection supervision. Circular authorisation shall be issued with the aim of full protection of the environment. This is a permit for the operation of the plant and for the facilities in which it is carried out or will be carried out after the construction or reconstruction activities to pollute the soil, air, water, sea or the environment. It must have every plant that can pollute the environment with its work, such as Pliva, Petrochemia, INA, Dukat, Coca-cola, Plomin thermal power plant, large waste dumps, cement production, metal processing, etc. Circular authorisation shall prescribe the conditions under which these facilities must operate. There are about 300 facilities in the Republic of Croatia which are required to obtain an environmental permit. Directive 35 of 2004 regulates the prevention and elimination of environmental damage, the concepts, the responsibility of environmental damage operators and the threat to protected species. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Regulation 16/28 of 2016 refers to the restriction of emissions of gas and solid pollutants and type-approval for internal combustion engines for non-road moving machines. This Regulation therefore only implements infringement provisions for legal and natural persons during the type-approval procedure. Type-approval of vehicles or parts, assemblies and devices, testing, determination of conformity of the parts examined, e.g. Parts for internal combustion according to EU rules relating to the part under examination and to a specific category of vehicle. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the laws, i.e. the harmonisation with EU directives which were applicable to pilots, were made at the public consultation, the interested public in the period from 18 May to 16 July 2017, from then on several observations were made by the Ministry of Justice, mainly by the Committee on Lawmaking which were of a new technical nature, and from the coordination for the economy and structural reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there were no objections, the Ministry of Justice had no objections, so that we installed these observations of a new technical nature in this final text of the law. And I will conclude with the conclusion that the adoption of this law is necessary in order to address the issue of full compliance of Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU, to remove obstacles to the use of EU funds for the future period, i.e. ex-ante period planned by the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion from 2014 to 2020. And most importantly, the submission of possible lawsuits by the European Commission against the Republic of Croatia is avoided. The implementation of this law does not require additional costs in the Republic of Croatia's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67822	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have two replicas, the first respected colleague, Dobrović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67823	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, here we were just on the board, I'm interested in one thing, I'm in the debate two and three months ago first reading made an observation about terminology, so you've interpreted that you haven't been able to do it now, I'm interested in this comprehensive amendment to the Environmental Protection Act in which you think you're solving this problem, when it's planned? Is that in the Ministry's future plan and when will it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67824	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67825	Your Honor, we will be taking more serious steps of this law by the end of this term, so this year I don't believe we'll be able to do it, but in any case we're thinking, that certain parts of this law should be affected. And that will be done by the end of the term.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67826	Second replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67827	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Horvat, you say, that this law in the second reading, in fact, we have... The Directive shall lay down the provisions of the 4th Directive or be followed by a penalisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course it was supposed to be long ago, it seems to me in 2007, but that's where the pots broke. But I would talk about this part in reality, in the real part of environmental protection, as the most important part, meaning environmental conservation and sustainable development. So we can, as you said, start from the sea, land and air, sustainable development, means preserving the environment for future generations. The Croatian State as you comment, regardless of EU recommendations, on the '82 conventions. Mr. which signator we are exclusively declaring an exclusive economic belt, because we need to know that they are being dropped into the Adriatic in balanced waters, where a stain is created in the size of Split, which no one, fortunately due to the current in this accident, comes to the shore of this waste that is released into the sea from... So that would be one huge threat to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course we have to go to the National Park Plitvice, where the sewerage within the Plitvice, the national park itself is open, where we have the center, where we have concreteisation and apartmentisation, where we don't keep the meaning of our environment, and all the regulations we write will actually not be enough, if we don't protect our environment or example, another very important in Donjo Lomnica in Velika Gorica, we have representatives from that area, in the middle of the village there is a huge asphalt base, people oppose, people oppose, there are schools, there are kindergartens, but nobody takes care of it. Therefore, it is not enough for the secretary to prescribe the provisions, but should be implemented in the protection of the environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67828	Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67829	Well, I'm gonna try to talk to my esteemed colleague, Buljo, because I appreciate his concern for environmental protection. There's more to it than that, we could talk about the seas, about this last topic. So either way, the system needs to do its job. The pollution of the sea, it's not just a matter of this law, so there is, and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs has its responsibilities regarding this last thing you said,... Right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, there's this whole procedure that was regulated 10 years ago by certain studies and unfortunately it was installed in a space park. He's accepted. Therefore, I agree that it is necessary to tap into this matter of environmental protection, but not only, it is not only the jurisdiction of this ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67830	Thank you. Now let's see, do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, then we'll move on to the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge and Honored counterpart Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67831	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. I welcome the Ministry's representative and all my colleagues and fellow MPs. So, here we have before us the Act of Amendments and the addition of the Environmental Protection Act. We have heard that the purpose of these amendments is to comply with the European legal framework. Therefore, it is 4 Directives and 1 regulation. Of course, it avoids penalisation and removes all obstacles to funding, therefore, the use of European funds, in particular from the ongoing operational competitiveness and cohesion programme. So it's nothing to argue about, so it's to support and we have to do it. However, we have another problem, I pointed to him during the debate in the first reading. Namely, the uncoordinated and uninhabited definition, so our terminator is very bad. And what kind of message, then, is such a termite, so it's our law. It would be so possible if we didn't have a centuries-old tradition of the university, so I don't know in Zadar was founded a thousand years ago by the Zagreb Continuity of 1699 and we don't have a problem with those terms, because there are a number of strong universities, which are very different concepts, of course because they do. The development of industry, therefore, and science and research, is all something that we can be proud of. And that's why it's sad to see that there's been a mix-up in 2007 and that there's no respect for professional terminology. Best of all, all our Croatian dictionaries, let's say the difference in terms of pollution from pollution, all of them. Also encyclopaedias and lexicons. And when you look at the law, there's a mess. And now you can think of what it's like when students, students, looking at definitions, where they're going to look, maybe it's the easiest thing in the law to do, and see what it is, we've been teaching them wrong for 10 years. I mean, you have to fix these weird things. So, what's this about? We also have a mission that is misdefined, we have in terms of environmental pollution, so pollution, polluting matter. Then there's a dangerous substance, and there's a harmful substance. And those two substances are even, I think someone has replaced the definitions, because the harmful substance is significantly more strictly recorded than it is a dangerous substance. There's no pollution or pollution at all. I by that, perhaps, someone will think, that it's even justified, that indeed, the world distinguishes pollution or... from pollution or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's a difference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to interpret the difference now and of course professional services at the ministry don't need to know, but that's why there are outsiders who can engage and there really shouldn't be a problem. So here's what I wouldn't elaborate further on. I, on behalf of the club, gave the Club of Representatives the MOST one amendment where I think I suggested a necessary change to at least see that we differ some concepts. It is clear that there is repercusion on the whole of the law, but perhaps one such addition can be allowed and a necessary correction in the concept of the law. Because we hear it's going to take two, three years so the adoption of a new comprehensive law that would probably once and for all solve the problem of termology. And here, I won't last any longer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67832	One is a replica of a esteemed colleague, Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67833	Representative Dobrović, you said the concepts were mixed. The law was passed in 2007. Tell me, here you said it affects the whole law, it means the mix-up of those terms. We say now he's here if we don't pass this law in this term as soon as we can, we're going to have to be penalizing. You have no objection to the law itself. So who wrote the law if the concepts were mixed? So if such damages were done and there could be no legal interpretation of that law or any distortion of interpretation so that you can assess whether someone was responsible for it or whether the Ministry of the Environment was more concerned with environmental pollution at the time, environmental damage essentially worked against the environment than it protected the environment. If in the law itself we do not have the terms defined correctly, then we know that this law or objectively is obstructed by various malfeasances, party officials who have done services to their party leaders or interest groups, or perhaps there is some other reason. This is the basic question of what makes you think the concepts in the law are mixed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67834	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67835	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bully, so it's not about any intention, it's about negligence. I think it's definitely about negligence. The issue of unresolved i.e. Inconsistently established terms in the law are a matter of some national shame and I don't think it's right. We all wear that one need to blush, because really things are misdefined. Who and when working can be identified and what professional associates have been doing on this legislative proposal at that time can be seen, but it is much more important in fact and it can be resolved faster and more urgently because it can also be done with valid professional associates very quickly and easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67836	We're going to another debate. The HDZ Representatives' Club and esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67837	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretaries with co-worker The Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives will support the proposal for a law on environmental protection as proposed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. Given that this law and other laws that we are about to pass today are related to environmental protection and nature protection and the Law prohibiting the introduction of invasive and foreign species, these laws are, in fact, the implementation and introduction of rules defining a number of European directives. It is one of the reasons why the Rules of Procedure should really be changed, since, as we see from the law itself, the differences in the first reading are mostly nomotechnical, as is the case in other laws. Indeed, the question is whether there should be regular procedures for such laws in which we speak twice about the same thing and between one reading and the other reading, between the first reading and this final proposal of the law there is really no change, so what I have now said and when we talked about this law in the first reading, which is that it is adopted as Mr. Secretary of State and fellow Dobrović for the reason that it should be implemented in the Croatian legislation 5 directives, i.e. 4 directives, one regulation which further intervenes in this Environmental Protection Act. I would only single out three things that I think are important for me and for us in this club. This is that in the part where we are ultimately implementing the Directive on the assessment of the impact of certain public and private projects on the environment, better regulation of the procedure for developing an impact study on the environment and the adoption of an environmental impact assessment solution. And what is important to point out, on the one hand, is that the responsibility of central government bodies, i.e. ministries in individual projects, on the one hand, and on the other, is better prescribed when these projects are of interest to the regional level, that the procedure is then managed and prescribed by the administrative body in the competent county, i.e. the regional self-government unit. This is very important because there is no overlapping in the jurisdiction to carry out the procedure and to make the solution itself. And the other thing that is very important to this law is the same directive, which refers to the fact that before adopting a solution to assess the impact of a particular project was in public, it was private to the environment, that the competent authority or central state body, or the ministry or competent administrative body in the county, was obliged to contact not only that unit of local self-government in whose space, in whose area it is realising and building, is implemented a particular project but is obliged to meet before the adoption of a solution and the unit of local self-government on which a certain impact on the environment, and by building and realising a particular project, could feel realising or deforesting that space of the neighbouring unit of local self-government. This, therefore, seems important to me to point out because it speaks of the greater impact of the local self-government unit in the realisation or adoption of certain projects that may potentially have a negative impact on the state of the environment. The second thing I also wanted to mention is the fact that, with this law, we are implementing a directive on prevention or a directive on the safety of coastal oil and gas activities in the first place, I am then thinking of a possible impact on the marine environment. And today we will have the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, as the Croatian member, a party to numerous international conventions that speak of the protection of the marine environment, since the government has adopted a plan of intervention from sudden environmental pollution, given a few months ago ratified a protocol relating to the Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Mediterranean Sea, one of the essential obligations of this ministry is to create a strategy for the conservation of the marine environment. So here I would point out that it would be a good idea to propose the strategy itself as soon as possible so that we can demonstrate our intentions, the projects that talk about the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic. Therefore, in order to have full access to this process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, one of the important assumptions is the Marine Environment Strategy, the protection of the marine environment and the sea environment, and I should say as soon as possible with this strategy that we are obliged to bring to the Croatian Parliament. Finally, it is good that this law also implements a directive that also refers to the process of environmental authorisation, since in Croatia it seems to me to be about 300 industrial plants to which this law itself will be amended by law and directive, it will refer to the way in which the environmental permit is handled, both for those plants for which the environmental permit has been issued and for those plants which, under this law, will have a somewhat different procedure than the one prescribed by the current law, and the basis for which a number of environmental permits have been issued. Here in this sense we at the Club of Representatives support and accept this proposal to amend the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67838	Let's move on, GLAS and HSU representatives' club and respected colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67839	Thank you very much. The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an amendment to the Environmental Protection Act. It's about a law that implies a series of other things, and I'm going to take this opportunity to maybe speak something wider than these changes and additions. Not to forget, at first I'll say that the GLAS and HSU club will support it as it supported in its first reading in the second reading of this amendment and the addition of the law. However, when it comes to the environmental story, when it comes to environmental issues, it is good to know that, for example, in the territory of Croatia which was then in the composition of another country, the first laws that were from the aspect of environmental protection were from 1984, when it was new, when it was a new kind of view of space at the time, everything was about spatial planning. And back in '92, '93. The ministry was founded for the first time by a special department dealing with the environment, with four people, so in '92, '93. four people dealt with environmental issues. I don't know the exact number that deals with today, but these are processes that happen in Europe, processes that happen both in Croatia and of course processes that we need to follow. I've said the same thing several times, and I'm going to use this opportunity to say that this century is certainly a century where we're all going to be dealing with climate change issues, and climate change has an absolute consequence of everything that's working on man as well. And because of that when we talk about harmonisation with directives, that's what the EU sees through the directives changes that are. Likewise, I will do a few sentences there and globally, let's say when the great world powers talk as they do today or these days in Davos and beyond, then one of the environmental problems is a serious problem to deal with whether the processes and ways in which agriculture is changing, in which the forest changes, in which production is absolutely having a consequence on this planet. In the context of this yesterday was one news that, in terms of other news that we do not understand, some are slightly more important, some less, so Croatia will have 12 representatives in the next EU composition. And we have the feeling all the time that Croatia is not an EU member and as if it's none of our business, there's the EU when we cross Bregan from here and it's somewhere else. However, we are members of the EU and of this directive with which we are harmonising and directives, so this amendment and the addition of the law is an amendment and an addition to the law that we comply with with EU directives. These EU directives have been adopted in some EU, in some Brussels where we are and what is the role of our 12 new deputies who will be our members is to make sure that they report on time, that in time they are consulted, that we are discussing and that we are then discussing directives that are incorporated into legislation that we know about what it is. These directives that we're dealing with here, which are five directives, so we've been going to amend and supplement the laws among other things because we had a pilot so we don't get the pens, but we have to go because we need to. Because it's an improvement, because it's a new way of dealing with the environment, that is, the space we live in. So, I'd like a little bit on those directives, so, something is related to the environmental impact assessment. I always like to tell the story, so maybe I'll tell the story this time, back there in 2000, I was either in 2001 at an education in Finland, which lasted a week, which had something to do with spatial planning, but had something to do with environmental protection. Then environmental protection is the way we know it in regulation today. Today, as we conduct environmental impact assessments, it was from a strategic point of view, not a noun, and no one has ever talked about it, but it's just being carried out in relation to the procedure. And then there in the conversation, the Finns said, but you have to keep an eye on, you have to make sure that the environmental impact assessment isn't carried out just on that location it is. But the consequence, all that's going on, is that there's an industrial plant in that location, and there's a consequence all around. We looked at it so strangely, because we didn't then assess the environmental impact only at a specific location and only for that location and we didn't see that there was an impact on the surrounding area without talking about cross-border impact. I'm just saying this in the context of environmental protection regulation developing, that it's growing more and more every time, it's referring to a number of other elements, and what's mentioned, plans and interventions on coastal, oil and gas activities, which is extremely important, extremely important. And on the one hand, when you take the regulations that we have, these regulations are what, great, we bring it, we declare it, it's just a topic, that these regulations are being passed. Similarly, two of the things that have been introduced in this law are quite important, one of these things is the damage that is done in the environment and who is an obligation to repair and damage and how it is done. When you look at the environmental impact assessment solutions a little bit, whether they're for individual surgery or whether it's private or some other investor, then they have a situation for you and then you have those measures that you need during work, so you have measures during performance, so you have measures during work and then you have, that you actually have to monitor and what you need to do. And all together in that solution is perfectly written and then, and until nothing happens to anyone. We've all read it and seen it, but when someone does, it's read it and then wonders, who did it, why he worked, why he didn't work. And that's why it's good, that through these amendments and the additions of the law, we've defined it in more detail. And there's another provision, so we had in the law a clearly defined type-approval procedure when it comes to vehicles that are road vehicles. However, we have much less for non-road moving machines. And this time we brought it in. So these are all those machines, which when you're driving somewhere and you see from shit, who smoke, who do certain works, whether they're works related to construction, digging or related to agriculture, production and which are a major contaminant. And that's something that this law defines, and that's something that we're going to have to take care of in the future. Likewise, we, in this law and a series of others, get into a situation when it is, when we have a pilot, and then we're going to coordinate here. It would be good if perhaps at a time when the directives are already being prepared, and we know that they are preparing, when they are in phase and when the vote is already a story is over, but that little, then we see what this means in relation to our legislation. The next story that will surely come to us and we will discuss is the introduction of cars to electricity. I am, therefore, already having Ljubljana made a decision, that since 2030 all cars that will be in Ljubljana will have to be electric cars. So some cities have already made those decisions, I guess they're ready, or I guess when you want to take another car to that town, that it's going to be the parking lot they're going to leave you at, so public transport will take you to the city center. However, it is something that Croatia should be prepared for as well. And we need to get ready now. And what's not a problem, it's not a problem for you to make a charge, in public parking lots, in the parking lots of your buildings, it's just some kind of change that's a change compared to the project. However, the problem is from where electricity comes from. And the next problem is the battery, which will need to be stored somewhere, and also where does copper come from for those batteries? So why am I saying this, I'm saying for a reason, which is one directive, where this law is in line with that directive. But I am taking this opportunity to think together and, of course, first and foremost there is a competent ministry dealing with environmental protection, additional and energy, so the second point of today's debate will be that, but that the situation that is important and should be considered. Maximum and active participation, all when directives are done. Discuss them, see what it is, look at our laws, see what part of it needs to be harmonised. Once the directive is settled, then we have a legal obligation to coordinate, if we don't, only there can we get some foams. So, equally, here's to the end, something that's tied up, narrowly, with environmental protection, and what's connected to each of us sitting here is the obligations, the waste and the sorting of waste that we have since February 1st, which we believe or not is next week. For which cities should give us preconditions so that someone has the comodity to live in a city where the conditions are met either by us living in Zagreb or by you living in Zagreb weekly, these preconditions are not made, so that is one of the stories that will surely happen to us. And we now intensively at least when it comes to the city of Zagreb about how we sort out waste and when you look at an analyst, it turns out that we do it quite politely. But what further do we do with this waste when we sort it out? In Zagreb, I'm afraid of nothing excessive. But then there's one situation when we're talking about a waste of about 50, 60% of the waste is the municipal mixed waste that we put in bags, throw in some bins and drive away and do nothing with it. So what you need is to do something about it. It's an opportunity to really say from this pay phone, my people on February 1st is next week, there are certain obligations, and I'm one of those who I think should be the history of life teacher, so we need to see what in the history of dragon punishment has never done any good, but education has always brought good, to educate ourselves to know what it is. Finally, the club GLAS and HSU as we are in the first reading and in the second reading we will support these amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act. It's not a law that, like some others, is media popular, but it's extremely important, extremely important in a further context, extremely important in thinking that it's going down, a series of consequences, and that we who live on this planet are going to leave for this planet to our children. But we also think about that Croatia is a member of the EU, that these directives that are there are our directives, the directives in which we are taking part, and that approximately when it comes to our legislation, half of our legislation actually decides about it in Brussels, and that we are just harmonising with it and that we need to think carefully and that it is extremely important that the European elections that are going under the radar, but that it is extremely important that this team of 12 people who go to Brussels represent the first and basic interests of Croatia in a way that we know that half the text of any regulation is being decided elsewhere, and that we decide there too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67840	We've got three replicas, the first one's a respected colleague of Lenart's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67841	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, you've noticed one thing that's about non-road vehicles and the pollution of non-road vehicles where it's mostly big diesel engines that have a long lifetime of exploitation use so they can't follow the latest ecological norms. And what concerns me and many agricultural producers who have already heard of this law and new stricter norms that should even apply to tractors that they fear might be a very big blow to agricultural production if they have to comply with such strict standards for exhaust gases of these machines. Agricultural machines especially have tractors in exploitation, so here I have a 60-year-old tractor at home and it still performs functions and it cannot possibly have a Euro 5 engine, but by strict norm it would have to be thrown out of use or could not register what would then again be some other kind of damage. I think we need to be a little flexible and look at our Croatian interests because we have entered the EU late and we cannot adapt so quickly because, especially in this segment of agriculture, we are not even at the level of EU support, both direct support and support that the EU provides to its producers for the purchase of new machinery. And we have to have some kind of transitional period that's at least ten years in agriculture to adjust these machines or to come up with some new ones that can respect these new standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67842	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67843	Thank you very much. Right on the trail of what you were saying if you had the chance and you listened to me, I was also saying so in my presentation. The simplest thing for you is that we got an EU pilot project, we're going to install it into our legislation, we're going to give you some strict penalties, and we're not going to take care of what's really on the ground. First of all, really when it comes to the aspect of protecting the environment of everyone else, it is extremely important that people get to know each other in time, so I was talking about the waste, but it is also about other things, education that is extremely important, and this procedure that there is one longer period of time to adapt. And the same thing as the worst thing that can happen to you at one point comes the punishment or you say you can't use it. As was the case with road motor vehicles, and with these devices, there should be one adjustment, and there should be some conditions, they should really take care of it. So this is largely about the machines used for agricultural production, but it is also largely about the machines used in construction, therefore construction machinery. It will be interesting to see at some point when if this story ends with the Pelješki bridge, and I hope it will end up useful for Croatia and when the performer comes to see what machines you will bring. So the interest of the Croatian state is that at a time when a performer comes outside that, however, the machines he is working to be acceptable from the EU's point of view. But I absolutely agree with you when it comes to agriculture, agricultural production and one adjustment must also be taken into account so as not to punish our agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67844	Now it's time for the esteemed colleague Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67845	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues Mrak-Taritash, these comments about Ljubljana are fully in place and it would be very nice if we could do something similar in Croatian cities. However, in addition to the problems that you have identified, of course, one additional problem is the fact that electric vehicles are still largely inaccessible to our citizens and are simply not affordable in this way. If you remember our government had an incentive to try to make such vehicles more accessible to the citizens, so to encourage them to some kind of environmental responsibility and to think about the future and to modernise our cities in this way, but here are the two years that Zmajlović tells me there are no incentives, and then I think it's quite difficult to expect such a greener future if the situation remains this way and such vehicles do not afford our citizens. We can hope that it will change soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67846	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67847	Thank you very much. That's right, I deliberately talked or discussed with a pay phone about some processes that go to Europe, some processes where we read it as news or we hear it in the media, and we don't kind of go into adjustment at all, and we don't care that it's the point in which Croatia should go. You can really see that there are some public parking areas there, malls have the possibility that if you have an electric car to connect there and charge it but through the policies of a government you should see how it directed what she thinks. You must see government policy in terms of energy, when it comes to environmental protection, how you think it will be 2030, 2040, and adapt and prepare now. I always say the smallest problem is that you build something, you build it, it'll be there. But from where energy comes from, but also from the other side, what really should be taken into account in terms of incentives, to encourage people to have cheaper devices than we had the action of those A++ devices, now that you come have more than enough pluses that I no longer understand what is which plus. This is the policy of a government that allows its citizens to buy more cheaply individual machines, individual devices, and thus actually protect the environment, and that is why we need to persist, and that is why this law is also an opportunity to talk about it, to point out that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67848	And the third replica, dear colleague Zmajlovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67849	Thank you very much. Here I would like to replicate to my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash, and I would disagree with one part of the exposure, although mostly with everything, which is that we should start doing something. I would like to remind you, if what my colleague Glavasevic reminded us, in fact, that our government has launched a series of activities particularly related to the reduction of emissions from the area of transport. Remember that we had incentives for the purchase of electric vehicles and these chargers that you see today in almost every city and municipality, these are the charge stations that were built or the incentives of the Environmental Protection Fund, these are projects that were launched since then, but parallel to that, we should have encouraged the development of this market of electric and hybrid vehicles because we have finally begun to build the infrastructure of the charging plant and for the past two years you have complete silence from the Environmental Protection Fund, no more incentives. Of course, to citizens, but also to companies, it's expensive to get electric vehicles, which is exactly why the state is charging the so-called. the environmental compensation for the registration of the vehicle and the fund generates income from that base and that money instead of ending up in incentives for the purchase of such clean vehicles, it ends up not knowing where. So it's something to work on, but not only that, it needs to be drawn out and seen the comprehensive government policy that's left behind here. On the one hand, the population decreases taxes and charges on the purchase of used old vehicles, and gradually I become a cemetery of European old used vehicles and on the other hand we talk about clean transport and high objectives and sanctions that await us because we will not reduce emissions from transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67850	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67851	Thank you very much, colleague Zmajlović, for reminding me, people say that our voters remember the last month, and I seem to remember the last two years, so there was nothing in 2 years. Well, since there was nothing myself and in my debate I was saying on the trail that we should do, that we should be prepared now, that we have to have all the preconditions and what you said on the trail of what you said, it would be very, very good that in this country once the government went that all the good projects that that government did go on and not to try to find what the faults of these projects were and not to say that the first six months or a year spent energy to say that they were like this, that kind of thing, and then they just moved on. It is one of the great projects, Croatia is a country that has really one, I won't say, it has one decent tradition when it comes to environmental protection and also what we all really want, and there will probably be a debate when we have the Nature Protection Act, that we are one country that can boast of its natural beauty, with its topic about environmental protection, but if we are a cemetery of old cars, we certainly won't be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67852	Now it's the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Michael Zmajlovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67853	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are ahead of us with the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, which are mainly technical, i.e. we are in line with certain provisions of the directive and we are in a way building provisions for the implementation of certain European regulations. It is a technical matter but of course there are essential things that actually the law of 2013 improves, which removes certain shortcomings that have been implemented in application and practice itself. Since it is the 2013 law and actually the improvements that are proposed here, I will begin by saying that the SDP Representatives' Club will support these changes. What I think is just as good, which is that given some long tradition of systems or processes of environmental impact assessment in Croatia dating back to the 1980s, and also in the 1990s, which was mentioned by colleague and representative Mrak-Taritash earlier, I think we should continue to develop and build trust in our system, not every year or with every new government, to break it down and announce that we will do something new from the foundation, because it does not contribute to the trust that is necessary for this system to work at all, therefore the environmental impact assessment system. And I think it's a good thing it didn't work out, I can see that it gave up on a revolutionary change in the environmental impact assessment system that was announced in the previous HDZ government, but also at the beginning of this HDZ government. I am sorry that in these amendments I do not see any improvements or increased transparency on which she had objections and the interested public, especially NGOs, I think that there is also room for this, and that some future changes should be considered in the selection and definition of the commission, expert commission impact how much policy has an impact on this, etc. What can be seen from the debate here is that the fundamental observations that remain here are the termological nature and I believe that this should also be taken into account in the future. I see that the proposer has promised that by the end of the term of office, it will be necessary and very important to announce and present to the public the direction in which these changes would go. This is how we really keep the public, the professional public and the general public in the tensions that something will change just when it starts to apply. So if you are announcing major amendments to the law then set up some principles and give us at least some outlines and your environmental policy, so these governments so that all the stakeholders that are important that this could work at all, rather than constantly tap into the place and wait for some big change because it is holding back the implementation of what is in this law and good. So in this context, I believe and support the debate and my previous colleagues that there is no clear policy of protecting the environment of this government. She's vague, she's invisible, as unfortunately the minister is running that resort, as if it were irrelevant. This is also drawn by the dynamics of the adoption of strategic documents. For example, the low-carbon development strategy of the Republic of Croatia is something that has been standing in drawers for two years. I know they're gonna try to deny me that there's been a strategic assessment, etc., but still two years is really a lot. And if that's important to us, and it should be important to us, such strategic documents should be brought in as soon as possible. They are not brought over the knee, specifically this strategic document was launched before 2011, so this is something that should be very important for Croatia. But in this lack of clarity in the environment policy of this government, it is also outlined that the government itself cannot agree what is important, which is above the Energy Development Strategy or the Low Carbon Development Strategy, which is a cap, which is an umbrella strategy. So when we bring it down to tax policy, you see that it's also wandering. On the one hand, there are initiatives to encourage the procurement of eco-acceptable vehicles, incentives to reduce emissions in all sectors of industrial and transport, and on the other, tax policy does not follow what should be achieved, and this is the goal of reducing emissions, of having a tax policy that detimises the purchase of vehicles that are over seven, eight or nine years old, which detimises the development of the black market for the maintenance of such vehicles, etc. It's just the opposite. The populist moves announce what, of course, makes it possible for citizens who are difficult to afford a new vehicle to obtain what is being solved by Europe, and in some ways we become a dump or a cemetery of old vehicles. Instead of the fee you took for citizens when you registered to turn into an incentive that the same citizen could afford an environmentally acceptable vehicle that has low emissions and with this incentive to come to a similar level as if he had bought a used vehicle. What I also think is that, in the application of this law, it is lagging behind, so maybe I'll hear the proposer's testimony is the chamber of environmental experts, which is foreseen by law itself, and it's not going to go into that implementation. I think it would be good for the government to clearly determine whether it is going in this direction, whether or not it will be applied because in principle I believe that such a chamber that gathers experts in environmental protection would contribute to transparency and perhaps to these control mechanisms that even among those authorities who in some way abuse their powers or perhaps from lack of competence some way do and damage themselves and violate trust in the whole process, I think it is also important. A colleague of Bačić also spoke about the recovery of environmental damage, i.e. the measures prescribed after a certain facility or after the completion of a certain exploitation and remains in some way environmental damage, so in practice it has been seen for several decades that these measures are ineffective. One example is the quarryes in Croatia, so after the exploitation remains the wounds in the environment, there are also contracts and solutions to the prescribed obligation to resuscitate such spaces, but on a regular basis, when they end up exploiting the company, they end up in bankruptcy, and there are no more problems and there is no one left to take care of it. And who's going to take care of it? At the end of the country or citizens again from some general tax revenues. So I appeal that, in particular, this law but, of course, the law which is not the subject of this debate on mining, takes care of such resolutions, and that, in general, it is for the rehabilitation and decommissioning of the plant after the end of operation to prescribe stricter guarantee conditions, so that the plant operator must either single out into a particular fund as a guarantee that after the exploitation, after the end of production, after the end of the lifetime of that plant, he will have the money to actually resuscitate it, that it is safe for the environment and not that we have situations like INA, Petrochemy, etc. etc., there are a number of similar examples in Croatia. And what's all the black dots today, so-called. in Croatia from the cave Soviet to other points are actually nothing but something that some irresponsible company has left for future generations, i.e. us to settle with budget funds. As I have said in the introduction, this 2013 law actually improves, certain provisions of certain directives are implemented, individual provisions are improved, and for this reason the SDP Representatives' Club will support these amendments, noting that here, in the future, the possible amendments to the law are taken into account both this debate and these arguments that have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67854	Thank you, too. We are going to the next debate, the club of representatives of the HNS, respected colleague Milorad Batinić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67855	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The amendments and additions to the Law on Environmental Protection of the HNS club will simply support the reason why we consider this to be an improvement of the existing although I would particularly like to stress that I believe that you are all here and are aware of that and our citizens are also aware that not only in front of us but also in front of all of Europe, but also the world as regards environmental protection itself is waiting for us very uncertainly to say, time. I would just like to point out not only those contaminants and those harmful emissions from industry but also certain environmental impacts, biological factors as such, here's the last thing we had in Alaska earthquakes are also witnessing certain environmental impacts and particularly in Croatia. What I don't want about the scale of things is simply directives, I said which, which we see as improvements, which we think are good but also I think that we and our services especially in the field, and we ourselves as citizens, and especially units of local and regional self-government, which are from the past 20 years in the adoption of spatial planning documents, we should take good care of the biological factors that have a significant impact on environmental protection. I'll only tell you where we project future industrial zones, business zones where potential contaminants are. Only one segment, which is a rose of winds, very or perhaps insufficiently considered in the production of space-planned documents. Furthermore, this law is good, but the question is whether our sublegal documents are from various regulations, regulations, whether they are in line with today's times or whether they should be updated in particular when we talk about emissions regarding limit values. Here is a concrete example, I think that you should take an additional step and in the practice of inspection services when there is a particular surveillance mainly about the formal to say whether the environmental permit is in line, whether a particular industrial drive, whether the agricultural farm is specific to the poultry farmers, where that chicken is carried out or a pig farm, although you should but other resistor specifically stimulate, the way in which environmental protection itself is concerned, whether to the extent that surveillance has been carried out on the ground knowingly. In particular, I also have to mention some negative examples where a man who has one such peradarian farm has all the technical conditions of a respected and environmental license and all the expensive, however, in practice it does not work. For which reason, simply because it is the energy that he must use for all these filters to protect us, it simply doesn't work because it doesn't realize the profit he planned for himself and of course it is reflected and it's completely nearby the settlement, is that some 400, 500 meters but also the rose winds and the negative, harmful influence produced by his farm has an adverse impact on the citizens themselves who live even health problems. And then the law stipulates that units of local self-government are the ones that can order and pay for pollution testing. In Croatia, as I recall, as far as I have information, there are two authorised companies. However, the inspector's findings also say that, the smell, specifically, which is one of the key factors of pollution is not measured. I would therefore like, and there is also a certain practice in the EU, where this can also be introduced into regulation, i.e. through a rule that, because we are talking about the quality of life in a particular area, urbanally. As far as the environment is concerned, it's natural and every other environment and man himself, the community where he lives. Likewise, I mentioned both the introductory and the biological factors, which also have a negative impact on the environment itself. In particular, one of the key such elements is what happens at the very bottom, in whether it's in urban areas or border areas, they're skates. We are not in this law and it may be very difficult to do so through others, but I am using the opportunity to introduce the Secretary of State to a certain one, although we have already discussed this with certain problems that should also be brought to the attention of the environment and the return of the environment to its original state. You've got rinks where public infrastructure died, about that angle. I'm saying, I'm not gonna mention it, and it's just as bad at family houses. We just haven't had one better approach so far. When I was talking about limit values, I would pray that both the Secretary of State and the specific ministry, that they might be more detailed about our regulations, our limit values, not only, I say, for agricultural production. We also have situations, that knowingly, based on technological processes, certain agrometers are polluting our own soil. We're polluting our own soil. Certain areas, where intensive agricultural, military production is, I simply think that there should be a little more detailed handling or through regulations, redefine some things, specifically I am talking about certain areas in the north of Croatia which are also water nostrils. So, when you look at and examine the quality of groundwater, you'll see that, over some time period, maybe certain artificial fertilisers, which are the main factor of pollution, maybe in some way and prescribe certain measures, that even through organic fertilisers, unfortunately, which are not or through some other measure, that the soil in some way try to revitalise, as much as possible. We see environmental damage every day. What I would certainly like to emphasize is whether we are aware of them enough. And of course, by this law we cannot prescribe neighbouring countries, and we are also witnessing the concerns of citizens in Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area, but I believe that, and also visible from the very meetings and with representatives of neighbouring countries, it is globally related to this problem. And for this reason, I believe that Croatia will be even more active, not only through the policy of the resolution ministry, but also through the policies of the other ministries, which they have, in some ways, I will dare to say through policies that have a very, very significant impact on the environment itself. How to protect our environment? Are we good enough in that? Do we have a sufficient number of prescribed measures, and even those criminal ones, I'd like to think about it a little bit. And what I think is, the law is a good and large majority of our laws, which tang, specifically this area, from nature protection, environmental protection, the Agricultural Land Law, let's say, the Law of Industry. However, I have the feeling that to a sufficient extent the implementation of this, by the competent institutions on the ground, is not at the level at which I believe it should be. Here, I said briefly, the HNS Club will support, along with these notes and suggestions, and I also believe that the resolution ministry will focus on these problems that I have brought not only me, but also all the clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67856	We have one replica, dear colleague Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67857	Thank you, dear Vice President. Coliga Batinić, you mentioned agriculture on several occasions, farm pollution, one category that you would introduce, smells. When you look at agriculture and walk past a pig's farm, of course it smells uncomfortable. But when you put a pork steak on the grill, it has a pleasant smell. So, you need to weigh this well, which is pleasant and unpleasant. Although people living in the countryside and making products, these smells are not so unpleasant and we have had the process of building a farm through operational programs, where these farms had such conditions that they had to be far from the populated area, that they were being exaggerated. Because in such production it cannot be far away and there is always something happening and someone must be present. As for fertilisers, whether organic or artificial, nitrates exist, there is a nitrated directive, which prescribes, when organic and artificial fertilisers can be used. However, our village is in such a state that it must save only on fertilisers, so that we are far below the level of the EU and the old EU members and by the use of artificial fertilisers, but also by the results, pesticides in the soil. So here I am, getting some impression from your debate, that it's one of the main polluters of agriculture and agricultural farms. I may be wrong, but here's the impression you gave us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67858	Reply to the replica of counterpart Batinić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67859	Thank you, Mr. President, but you've got the wrong impression. I said there were negative examples, that... there are negative examples, of course you are allowed to articulate as a member of the HSS or to articulate HSS attitudes accordingly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, I have pointed out a particular problem, which is not sufficiently addressed, perhaps with respect and increased agricultural production, because food is a strategic product, which we are all aware of. And I pointed out that if you have a farm, I have nothing against it, but that it works by positive regulations and by all laws. If that's economically unsustainable, then that's another question. It can't be fooled as an alibi, to be damaged, to do damage to the environment. That's where we'll agree, I believe. As far as fertilisers are concerned, the same way. You have examples and a Varazdin swimming pool, you have problems in Međimurje, where intensive agricultural production, of course, is based on mineral fertilisers, to increase productivity, which is understandable, but I'm asking the question, how many, how many years, how many more can the soil be destroyed in this way. And as a whole that area is a plumber, citizens drink that water. There are nitrate directives. And I don't think it's a problem whether it exists or not, it has to exist. But the competent inspection services should pay more attention to the examination of this soil, to the exploration of emissions, not only when the pollinator or the owner of the farm calls for an inspection, here, there's an environmental permit. Best of all, they usually come when there's no chickens inside or when there's no pigs in the farm. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67860	Thank you. We continue to discuss clubs, Mr. Vlaovic in front of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67861	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a respected secretary of state with an associate. On behalf of the HSS Club, of course, we welcome the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with EU directives and pilots. But we also have several objections to the proposed amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Because on several occasions both the diameter and the government said that we would coordinate Croatia's legislation with European directives and laws, but on the other hand we would open up a space for investment, we would open up a space for withdrawing EU funds, simplify the procedures. These amendments and amendments to the law do not go exactly in this direction, because here are several remarks by the units of local and regional self-government and experts dealing with these legislations, especially in terms of spatial planning, where they point to a number of years of problems, which relate to complex procedures of strategic assessment, impact of strategy, plan and programme on the environment, as well as percentages of the assessment of the need for their implementation. Namely, Art. 63-75. The Environmental Protection Act has established a system of strategic environmental impact assessment, a shortened SPO that is defined as a process that assesses likely significant environmental impacts, which can be created through the implementation of the plan and programme strategy. We believe that those provisions should be examined in detail, more significantly shortened and selected the type of strategy, plans and programmes to which these provisions apply. Even in the European Directive, they are not so drastically envisaged. ... The unit of local and regional self-government that has worked at least and replaced the spatial plan is known how much this procedure first assesses, and then often strategic assessments themselves, environmental impacts, complications, lengthens or accumulates the process of making spatial plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We propose that certain exceptions be identified, for which such complex procedures should not be carried out, so neither is the process of assessing the need for a strategic environmental impact assessment that sometimes takes several months and then not the process of the strategic assessment itself. It is known that this evaluation procedure is a basic prerequisite for the launch of any design, even the least changes and additions of the spatial plan. In order to carry out the evaluation procedure on the need for a strategic evaluation for planning, e.g. turning points at the end of a dead end, residential or for a change, implementing provisions governing the urgency of the building within the settlement. This level of spatial plans, which is the urban planning of the arrangement, which refers only to the residential part of the construction area, without business zones and industry, should be excluded from any assessment procedure or strategic environmental impact assessment. Similarly, the amendments and additions of spatial plans to be implemented in order to comply with the spatial arrangement law should be excluded. For example, there are numerous changes in spatial plans, arrangements, cities and municipalities, which have been determined and unsettled construction areas. Therefore, they did not expand, their arrangement was not determined in line, but only compliance with the legal obligation, for such a procedure, it is really unnecessary to carry out an assessment of the need for a strategic need for environmental impact. Furthermore, when the assessment of the need for a strategic assessment finds that a strategic assessment should be carried out, only then do the problems arise for local and regional self-government units, which is why some of the most frequent units of local and regional self-government did not plan and we know that it takes several months and that it is expensive. Then why, when it comes to the change of the spatial plan, it is most often necessary to implement this change quickly because of the planned investment of the traffic solution or the city's demands and the like, why by drawing up two parallel documents, all deadlines for the development of the spatial plan are significantly extended because they are no longer dependent on the procedure laid down by the Law on Spatial Planning but also on the regulations governing the process of strategic environmental impact assessment. In creating spatial plans of the unit of local and regional self-government, it is a multidisciplinary activity carried out by architects and a number of experts from this area. These spatial plans are defined and environmental protection measures that must be updated and therefore do not need to duplicate these procedures, and I say it costs. It is also a questionable provision that sets out the strategic assessment obligations for those strategies, plans and programmes which provide a framework for procedures subject to assessment and the need for environmental impact assessment or environmental impact assessment... All such procedures are defined by specific regulations and it is clear that an environmental impact assessment will be required to build a larger production facility, why double procedures and pay for such strategies and an environmental impact study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, the question arises whether we had to make such a rigorous provision or, as it was said, to facilitate procedures, to shorten procedures and ultimately to make and change spatial plans cheaper, then also prepare investment for units of local and regional self-government and other investors. The need to coordinate our economy has already been mentioned, first of all, by my colleague Lenart mentioned agricultural productions where we have mostly old machinery and there is no deadline for agricultural machinery and working machinery already present at our OPGs and if we strictly adhere to such directives and make it even more stringent for us, we will do damage to our economy and our agriculture and we see that everything is not only possible by law, but only by law enforcement and enforcement, for example, we have good laws, consistent with directives, and in practice there is a violation of the ecological balance and permission to build illegal objects and only after public pressure and associations in this area reacts. Of course, as long as the problem of air pollution in Slavonski Brod is resolved, and it is announced that it will be resolved, we will be restrained by this legislation because of citizens of Slavonski Brod and similar cities of local self-government units suffering from environmental pollution and the Government is reacting too slowly to us, we will be restrained by such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67862	Thank you, too. You have two replicas, first Mr. Franjo Lucic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, I've been listening to your debate, and I agree that exactly this harmonisation of the law will and will make some changes, but I'm sure there's a lot more that we have to do when we're talking about environmental protection, then we must certainly reach out to the well-being of those people who deal with agriculture, who live in the country and where the greatest pressure is exactly environmental protection, and that's what a nitrate directive is. I've also agreed with you and I've talked about it too many times already that we here in Croatia really have too strict laws. We prescribe laws that are stricter than the EU. What I would like to say on this occasion is that the Secretary of State, you who come from the Ministry of Environment and Energy, are also counting on us, we have already discussed this topic, that exactly the protection of the environment, and today a lot of words are being spent on protection against the nitrate directive and we have witnessed that the EU is also forcing us and we have already spent a good part of the resources, we are making a clear and legal question to address the nitrate directive in one special way, which is that your ministry has all those farmers who today have huge quantities of barns and everything that makes it a nitrate directive, to do everything to make it possible for us to just provide the issue by the Ministry, the Government of the Republic, a new quota for a certain amount of megawatts, where tomorrow, through the production of electricity, we are going to solve the issue of the nitrate directive, and thus for those farmers, the farmers, the waristers, we are going to solve them entirely in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67864	Thank you, too. Mr. Vlaovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67865	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lucic, I agree with you that in the implementation of EU legislation and the directive we must find models that are acceptable to our economy and our farmers. In my presentation, I have expressed the remarks of the unit of local and regional self-government and experts dealing with spatial planning, which is their opinion that the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Environmental Protection did not cooperate enough in this area and that we too often and in this case too rigorously prescribe and prescribe the Eu Directive and do not work in harmony with our situation with our economy, with our agriculture, and do not make any exceptions because European directives leave enough space for all Member States to edit an area ourselves and to explain it in a quality way. When it comes to agriculture, the nitrate directive, it is one specific area where we certainly have the justification to look for milder measures and better quality solutions because we see that every year the number of people who deal with livestock is in decline, that we do not have enough in food production or when it comes to meat or milk, and then in these regulations we are still making it difficult for our OPGs to continue operations. I think that all ministries together must sit down and find models to solve the problem of the nitrate directive, food production and environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67866	Thank you very much. Second replica, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67867	Thank you very much. Comrade Vlaović, you have noticed correctly and you need to highlight it all the time because obviously nothing is happening around Slavonski Brod or around the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. One silence prevailed in HDZ, and we can't hear. The president was there a year ago almost here now she promised to solve the problem, she talked to Russian partners, but the fact is that nothing is being solved and the fact that we are showing here how much we care about both the environment and the nature, and also the health of our fellow citizens. And it is good, no matter what, that you also occasionally, and all the other MPs who care about the problem there to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament, because it is obvious that one part of the MPs and the ruling party wants to stop talking about it because in the end nothing happens. These talks are I would say from month to month, the steps of the shift are gone, we are more concerned in the neighbouring country than with the interests of citizens living in Slavonski Brod or Brod-Posavina County. So my proposal and everyone else within the government, and the presidents of the Republic, when it goes to Sarajevo, let it insist on these topics, is what it needs to be of crucial importance to it, and not go there to open topics that it cannot possibly solve, and on the other hand, our citizens still have immeasurable damage from non-organic production and oil derivatives in the Bosnian Ship. Keep pointing out because obviously HDZ cannot solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67868	Mr. Vlaovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67869	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, here I agree with you that the problem in Slavonski Brod is not solved and that we should continue to talk about the problem of air pollution, not only in Slavonski Brod but also in all other cities in the Republic of Croatia. A strange silence was announced to modernize the refinery in the Bosnian Ship, connect to the energy gas connection via Slavonski Brod and the Sava River and the president of the Republic of Croatia, congratulating her for taking activities and contacting the owners of the refinery and Russian diplomacy, but it did not go beyond that. And with the right of citizens of Slavonski Brod, so here I am asking the question of where it came from, which is planned to be done further because we see that there are a number of contacts with the leadership of BiH that we welcome, but surely this issue should continue to be potentiated as well as any other pollution coming from the neighbourhood must be treated better, dealt with more quickly to the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic, and until this is resolved we will be loud and looking for solutions. And so far here we are looking for an answer at which stage it is likely that in the final statement the secretary of state can say has arrived with the modernisation of the refinery, how much it will reduce the emissions of harmful substances, the gases from this refinery and whether it is the only contaminant. Are we now hearing environmentalists that citizens of Slavonski Brod and are wrong, that it is not the only pollutant as far as possible from the refinery, but that the biggest one is safe and that it should be solved and that's for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67870	Thank you very much. We move to individual debates, Mr. Gordan Maras first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Secretary of State. We can discuss the law here, we can all support it, we can say it's good, we can accept European directives, but if we have situations that are so exact and show not only that some rules, some documents, some legal solutions are not good, and we're not changing anything. We have to point out here, now my colleague Vlaovic said something about the Bosnian and Slavonski Brod, but I have to point out here something that I also did in the context of nature protection and legal solutions last year as president of the then Environment and Nature Committee and asked for a revision of the Environmental Impact Study, the project "Affalt Bases in Donjo Lomnica", means a problem that is so exact when you see a negative impact on the environment of this project, one Austrian company that our citizens first have a quality of life problem there, another we have a problem with the possibility of polluting the source of drinking water, not only for Velika Gorica and that part of Zagreb County but for the whole city of Zagreb. And then what happens? The mayor of the HDZ of Velika Gorica is coming and he promises the citizens that he will solve the problem. And nothing's solved, nothing's solved. Mr. Barisic here is HDZ representative and Mayor of Velika Gorica, not only does he not solve it at all. All last year, if a man has reported twice for a word, instead of fighting here for his citizens every day, and asking for the problem of the asphalt base in Donjo Lomnica to be resolved and to prevent this harmful project for the citizens of Velika Gorica, and I also told the city of Zagreb. And the question arises because some citizens there in Velika Gorica claim that HDZ is connected to Strabag that nothing happens, that's the problem. Maybe that's why Strabag's appeal is now in play on the Pelješki bridge, perhaps there's the same variant behind the whole story or that Croatia pays 300 million kuna more for the Pelješki bridge than it should, and now those who are in collaboration with HDZ Strabag complain against the decision made by the Croatian highways. So there are certain things that don't make sense. It is not logical that the mayor of one party who is in power tells his citizens that this problem will be resolved and he is not solved, it is not logical that the president of the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature submits an application for an audit of the Environmental Impact Study and that he gets the answer that nothing can be done, it is not logical that the project Donja Lomnica continues to threaten the health of our people, pollutes the nature and potential sources of water and that no one reacts at all. I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, to say what the problem is, why can't anyone react in Great Gorica? Is it really the interest of a foreign company ahead of the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and why it is not possible to finally resolve how it should be resolved? And I'm sure that there are MPs here who are from Velika Gorica, and there are, there's Mr. Shucker, who know about this problem, and they're convinced that this problem has to be solved and it would be good to get rid of it. And that's why we can adopt whatever we want here if there's no political will, and the political will is for those who are in a position to carry out, to protect citizens, and even if legal solutions, someone can say so, so look at everything is correct, everything by law, according to the rules, can be said, but I'm prepared as a representative and as someone who cares about the interests of our citizens to file and a complaint from an investor if it means we're going to protect that space there tomorrow. Let them sue us, let them sue Croatia for those who gave them permission, but we will protect health and resources as drinking water that can be threatened tomorrow. What's the problem? If someone made a mistake to say that he made a mistake that project shouldn't have been there. But you can't tell your fellow citizens as mayor I'll solve the problem, and then don't solve it and don't talk about it at all. And on that side, any law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act can be the most beautiful in the world, it can be with the most noble intentions, it can be what we need, but if we don't actually solve problems, we don't have any of that. And I'm telling you in Velika Gorica right now 300 families, 300 houses around that project are watching and listening to why their problem isn't solved. And someone's gonna say here's the story now Maras is too wide again, but what can I talk about, so that's the problem. The law as such is excellent, but it does not solve the problems of those who chose us here in the Croatian Parliament, and as long as we do not solve this problem we will not move away from it. I want the secretary of state to answer me here why there is no revision of the Environmental Impact Study, which is why this project continues as if nothing had happened, why? It's obvious that the interest of HDZ to Strabag there is to do so, so I don't see any other interest that would be, and there could certainly be a way to talk to investors about moving it to find the most painless solution, so it's not in their best interest to have negative publicity and that people object to what they're doing there. So obviously we have laws that don't meet their purpose. And I will support this law, but I will still be very loud when we talk about what is torturing our people or how these laws don't seem to solve too much in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67872	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. First Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67873	Thank you very much. In this section on the problem of the asphalt base, it is visible how our legislation pleases i.e. The Ministry of Environment, which would protect the environment, is essentially the people who have to protect the environment from the Ministry of the Environment. That's amazing, and that's visible in Lomnica. Personally I was, people invited me, I went and I became convinced of what you said and I have spoken countless times and we expect, of course, all the MPs this answer to your inquiry because it's amazing that about 200m from the drinking water pool where not only Velika Gorica, but a large part of New Zagreb and the whole area uses this drinking water is threatened, where we have kindergartens, where we have OPGs dealing with the production of ecologically to accommodate a foreign company in this way. And it's unfortunate that we have three MPs from the Great Gore fellow Shuker, the mayor and fellow Beuss not to have any potential on this. I would once again thank these people who have given huge support in the fight against TE Peruca from Lomnica no matter what separates us, but bringing us together publicly well. And for this reason, I expect from you State Secretary this inquiry from the MPs to answer why you do not go to the review is not the possibility of an environmental impact study that benefits investors from environmental damage, the health of these people, the drinking water pool that feeds half of Zagreb, Velika Gorica, and I expect you to answer this request from a colleague Maras. These citizens will not allow you, and I am saddened that the mayor of the city of Velika Gorica and that we do not hear his voice here as well as the other parliamentary representatives and I expect a strong voice of theirs if I was in that place, no matter what I am 400km away at their invitation. It's embarrassing and sad that the largest asphalt base is built in the middle of a populated town. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67874	Thank you very much. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67875	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, if one of our citizens had been cut off by it, should have reacted, not as many hundreds and thousands as this is all about. I'm sure my colleague Shucker is aware of this problem, too. He must be aware of the problem. The mayor of the town of Velika Gorica, Barisic, was very loud before the elections, and that is what should not be supported in politics. Give people false hope, I'll handle it, after the election nothing happened. So if I were Mayor of Velika Gorica, I would stop here for a pay phone, not move until Mr Horvat tells me what the Ministry of Environment and Nature will do to solve the problem of 300 or 400 houses of the family and I don't say potentially Gorica, which has 80 000 inhabitants or the city of Zagreb, which has 700 000, 800 000 inhabitants, and not pretend that we don't care, as if we don't care about Lomnica, we don't care about Velika Gorica, we don't care about the city of Zagreb. And the solution could certainly be found. And I'm not satisfied with the answer it was all after P.S. because I'm once again ready to have the state and have certain damage due to some bad decisions to the benefit of investors if this will potentially reflect positively on environmental protection, our citizens, their health and drinking water. If someone made a mistake to tell me, but that problem, Mr. Secretary of State Mile Horvat, we have to solve it. We don't have an alternative, and silence won't help. The silence won't help Mr. Shucker who has to talk to his neighbors every day about the problem. We've got to work this out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67876	Thank you. Mr. Lenart, here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67877	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Maras, I'd have to defuse you a little bit if you're still working on air quality repairs, so let's say in Sisak, the refinery closes, there's gonna be air quality repairs, there's ironworks, it's been closed for a long time now, there's not a high furnace, there's a Petrochemy in the Box, there's a lot of other places where there's really air quality repairs, but if we were to ask the citizens of Sisak or Kutina today if they wanted to improve their air quality, I don't think they would have agreed to do it. So despite what's going on in Gorica, despite the fact that these 300 families will have a reduced value of their assets, here are some other parts that are still being done and repaired, but unfortunately again at the expense of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67878	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67879	Your replica was essentially a bit ironic because it is certain that this way people do not want to improve the quality of air or protect nature. For example, we might want to modernise the refinery in Sisak and continue to work on smaller shows, perhaps want to know what it wants with Petrochemy and not that it's enough for the government to appoint its director and now we're in trouble and we don't know if Petrochemy will work at all. Or the question of the Oilman. So 5 to 12 is granted a guarantee, not negotiated with the commission anything. These are problems to talk about, these are problems that could certainly affect the protection of the environment, but of which Croatia, or its citizens, will not end up having too much because we can do nothing, but then transfer everything to tourism but I don't know what the perspective of the Croatian economy and industry without the Oils, without Petrochemia, without refineries in Sisak and Rijeka, and unfortunately the indolence of people who decide about it is also the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy is fascinating. As if they don't care at all and should point out these problems also daily in the Assembly because 3,000 people who are covered by this problem in Pula, 1,000 in Kutina, several thousand in Sisak certainly deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67880	Mr. Mader, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67881	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, the Ministry of Environmental Protection should protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but unfortunately we must protect ourselves from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the word Pishkornica. Piškornica, a garbage dump in the northwestern part of Croatia, i.e. Koprivnik Ivanec, was said to be a local part. It's not a local thing, it's a matter of four counties, a waste of garbage, a place in Podravina, a huge amount of garbage, a big hill in a flat Podravina. We've been looking for answers from the Ministry of Environmental Protection. Everyone's been silent. Everyone shuts up except that the director of the regional center paid millions. I think someone deserves to take out the trash and the Ministry of Environmental Protection is silent and not giving answers to the ones we asked for from the competent ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67882	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67883	Thank you very much. This topic is special, meaning waste classification and waste disposal, what we see these days in the city of Zagreb is really fascinating, so we had, or the city's administration had years to prepare for both waste classification and waste collection, and for infrastructure that would allow this sort of waste to also be shared, or to increase the use of raw materials from 10%, as much as it is in the city of Zagreb to 40, 50% is that so much raw material does not go anywhere but nothing has happened. The 1.2nd Regulation enters into force, we in Zagreb, or the mayor Bandic, is now adopting a rule and is the main focus that the penalties for citizens will be up to 10 000 kunas if they do not properly classify the waste. But the buckets and the possibility of doing it, there isn't. It'll take him two, three years. So the fines will be predicted, and the infrastructure, the cans for our fellow citizens, is not secured, or if a man were to make a little joke, he would say that his cans were harder to secure in front of every apartment and house than what would be more difficult for him to build in front of everyone in front of his house the fountain. If the fountain had to be built, believe me, in 2 years, all the citizens of Zagreb would have a fountain in front of their house and cans, plastics, or what is needed to sort the waste, there will be no one, nor will they have to have it for the next 2 years, the main that Bandic and the authorities in the city of Zagreb have provided penalties for our citizens of 10 000 kuna unless they comply with the rules on the classification of waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67884	Mr. Misic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67885	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm glad to hear you in your criticism, everything is illogical, and it should have been as much as you mention, to answer politically. Interestingly, 20 years ago, as far as I know, the garbage was going to be taken care of in the Croatian state. Of course, we moved very, very little. You mention certain, I don't know the great Gorica, Lomnica, the river it probably pollutes, I can totally agree with you. But there's one thing you need to know. You're probably 20 years into some kind of politics. You've been in this House four years ago, I'd love to, I don't know, and I don't believe that you didn't attack the Minister at the same time for what was to be done. Well, it's a shame if we're just saying today that we're gonna settle it for tomorrow, we've been dealing with it for 20 years, we haven't solved anything. Of course, Europe has long solved and solved and now modernises its garbage warehouses. We didn't make it, you said it right, we couldn't even fix the trash cans, and we couldn't set up some recycling yard for 20 years. Of course, we're all guilty here. Of course, who's to blame? Politics. All the politics so far, we can't say these are guilty today, and it's been wrong for 20 years. Why? I don't know. It's a guess. We're close to Europe when we look, we drive cars as good as Europe, we have highways, but the basic thing that we pollute, we're not able to move cars within five years or a millimeter. Interestingly the simplest thing. Buy the garbage, raise the citizens, we certainly see that we are making progress but far, far from Europe. Well, it's more expensive today to recycle some kind of machine than to produce it, any of it from the packaging. We know that, it's more expensive in the world. And the money's going away for it. But we are troms, we like to be politicians, we like to be ministers, we like to solve everything populist here in Parliament and we don't really like to put pressure on certain local environments where they have to deal with it by law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67886	Thank you. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67887	All right, colleague Misic, what's your solution? Work and solve. [[Invadica Misic: Work and solve.]] And what to do and what to solve, you didn't say. So you can work and solve and not solve anything. So you give the solution you offer, you're in a position, though you were, I haven't been 20 years, it would have been a little too much, I entered Parliament in 2008, it was 9 years ago and I'm still where I came in, you walked in two years ago and you've already changed 3.4 parties. So obviously you're still looking for yourself, which field you're comfortable with and where you might be, from which positions better help solve problems. I don't mind, you change another party, go to HDZ, just give a solution to someone. Make a solution. So that's what I'm looking for, and since I'm an opposition agent, it's not possible that I can do anything when Mile won't listen to me. I can tell him, Mile, solve the problem of Lomnica, but I'm not Milorad Pupovac, president of his party. If I were Milorad Pupović then maybe Miles would listen to me a little more seriously, like this maybe Mile now says here I'll listen to this debate, people will say here what they are or I'm sorry not Milorad, it can be Andrej Plenkovic, it's irrelevant, I just want to say who has the responsibility. Party leaders, ruling, and so do you, fellow Mishic. You're a real sector man. So you know that actually whoever has the responsibility can handle it, can't do it at your company, don't know what you said you had, something about the service of the household appliances, but there can't be any of your employees solving problems at your company, so there's you who're responsible. So much for politics. Whoever answers and is in the ruling coalition, we ask Plenkovic and Milorad Pupovac to solve Donja Lomnica, that is my request. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67888	I use the opportunity before giving a word to Mr. Cule to greet the students of the Nikola Tesla University of Gospić, here are 36 students and teachers and we welcome them from the heart and I don't need to even ask for applause because he came spontaneously. Mr. Culey, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67889	Thank you, Vice President. And I welcome my Gossipians, let them take a look at the High when they're there. Comrade Maras, I see you're as ready as you said several times, you were born ready, you probably came from primary school right away to the Parliament. You are asking for the support of ministers who are now to solve the problem of pollution, and you forget that you were at one time the same minister and that you had colleagues of ministers and then you came to my Slavonia, a little lower than Slavonski Brod that you care about, in Babin Gred, gave 'to the tower or what, but there's a lot of problems there. Since we're talking about pollution, there's an ozone hole for you as long as your grandmother's beam is. She... which was placed there during Jacob’s day in which he had his paw by standing up and oiling himself he solved the problem of heaven. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's another problem for a colleague who doesn't have Jovanovic here, so I find it hard to talk about him as a minister of education, but I will, because there's a problem behind him too, there's one big hole of the largest septic cave in Croatia, there's that in Babi's Greda, where all the water is pouring down. The project worth 22 million kuna, that whole hall, is one septic hole, which daily costs 30,000 to resuscitate the same, not to mention... The walls. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there's a joke going around at school, and the chief's walking around in school, and he's being stopped by the kids, they say, chief, when will the gym be ready? Here are the papers that arrived at this ministry, and everything will be settled this year. And the kids say... It was the first April. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67890	Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67891	Thank you very much, colleague Culey, Steve, today we're going to be rooting for Stevie at the game tonight to defend well, but here, you're defending HDZ badly here. So Stevie's good at defending Croatia, and you're bad at HDZ. I would love to, I really wish that in my term of office when I was Minister, counterpart Bacic or counterpart Boris pointed out such a serious problem. And they asked me to get involved in some of the things you said here. He'd probably get involved, and he'd probably do some things differently. Maybe you could influence it, maybe you couldn't. So don't, if someone is as well-intentioned as I am, trying to point out certain problems and insist on solving them, don't take it immediately for evil. I have neither been to Slavonia on what you say nor ignored Slavonia, unfortunately Slavonia has been negligible for the past 20 years and many years. So nothing has been invested since the war. Most people leave Slavonia, it is amazing that such a rich part of Croatia simply does not get the support and attention it should get from the government. I can take over part of my responsibility for those four years, though, we all know that since the age of 27 HDZ has been in power for 20 years, but we don't have any of that, that we're talking about who's guilty of what. We need to figure out how and what to do. That's my intensity and intensity of my debate. And so don't be negative right now, if I'm trying to say something, you say, "Here you are, three years ago." So what do people in Slavonia have from that? They don't have anything. Let's see what we can do. Otherwise, I didn't know it was possible for someone to create an ozone hole, right above Slavonia. It's amazing that there's this ability Make an ozone hole above Slavonia, and we've heard that now, no. [[Thank you, thank you very much. Sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67892	Mr. Bull, individual debate, please welcome Mr. Bull. ... And on behalf of the club, I apologize. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's final, isn't it? Final, good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67893	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, Your Honor. I'm talking about a law that is essentially in the very beginning, a transfer of certain provisions, i.e. 4 EU directives, and it is implemented in this one law and the fact is that in 2007, this was already supposed to be in law, but the existing law that we have in 2007 essentially mixed the concepts. We need to ask a question as to whether there is a mixed intentional concept in 2007. Because I don't believe that people were in the ministry, who weren't expert on the environment. Because at this point and I'm going to say one example, where the ministry was more concerned with the big problem in the Long War, it's a cost, an industrial, than a factory... where to throw away, where to put up the river Cetina and then I personally and activated myself politically. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's it. more activist and we stopped that criminal intent, to poison the river Cetina, no matter what the police brought me in, neither guilty nor debtor, because I had to defend Cetina and nature from the Ministry of the Environment, from... That's what it seemed to me was called the man, who gave permission without any problem, guessing people that this expense we need to solve right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But not only do we have the same cost, the same problem in Biljani, in Straight Wheels, when you go down the highway, you see a huge black mass, which is poisonous, where people live and can't possibly solve that problem. It's life's problems. As in Donjo Lomnica, where the asphalt base is next to the watershed, which is powered by Velika Gorica, Novi Zagreb and the whole part. They had no problem throwing that kindergarten along with the OPG, which deals with family eco-production economies. However, big investors should be favoured, and where is the place? In the middle of town. And that's why I'm a little disappointed that we have three MPs, and even the mayor of Velika Gorica, who is silent about this problem, but once again I would like to thank those people from Lomnica who supported the fight against the thermopower plant, so we thank them and support them. I was there myself. When we talk about legislation, it will be good and we will give amendments. Col. Dobrovic also said that we would give amendments, because simply mixed terms, to be, means to give the possibility to manipulate and mix up the waste mafia and sustainable development is the key to the problem. We in Croatia at this point have a national park, a pearl of the Republic of Croatia, which UNESCO has declared a national park, so the deity we have here is a picture, I'm going to show, a whole sewer system, goes into one hole, and around here are the profunds, and this goes to the national park. This enters the national park, here is the secretary, go downstairs, he represents the pearl of Croatia, 2 million tourists visit. We even have an eco-production of potatoes, however, our defenders are responsible for this, they pointed out associations, which pointed to this problem, along with Minister Dobrovic, when he found out, however, the fact that the eco potato produced by cooperatives, people, the field potato, cannot be on the table in restaurants, hotels, motels in Plitvice Lakes, but imports from Egypt. They sell Egypt for potatoes. Of course, these areas have been evicted, that the import lobby destroys this population, and that it is much more important to fight because Plitvice was someone's ATM, but to survive this people in this area, Plitvice is very important to be preserved in this original form, it is a national pride, it is under UNESCO and we must not question the protection of UNESCO because of its enormous potential. This year, 2 million tourists stayed up all night. I've talked to people because I often go to Lika, I pass by, there's no weeks that I'm not in Face, I talk to people. Around people live, they deal with tourism, it just smells so bad, this hole spills in summer, it spills. People don't know how to explain it, so I asked that guy so how do you tell a tourist, he says, and we have to tell them, we're keeping cattle up there, and I think it's amazing that in Plitvice Lakes we don't have a system of sewers and purifiers. It's not biological or physical, it's not chemical, it's not chemical, it's this profund where it's hidden that the earth just submerged. Here again I call for the most important application of the law, not the deception of the law, that it is time for the Ministry of Environment to protect the environment and not for the people to protect the environment from the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67894	Thank you, Mr. Bull. We have a replica of Mr. Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67895	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad you brought this up, I believe we didn't, I just talked about the environment enough that we didn't solve all the resources, set up all the things that we should and of course canals and drains and septic pits that are according to some regulations but here, we're certainly late in everything. I'll say it again, I just said it was cheaper production than recycling, we all know it. We're really late for that part, but the populist talk here from the assembly is great. You know that I've been with you, but I've never been in any party until then until today I entered this assembly that calls me Mr. Maras, however, the people who have dealt with politics, I know that this was difficult after the war, but the responsibility should certainly be, the responsibility of any authority, however... I gave this authority and this government my hand and trust and I still believe I am still convinced that this government is going in one right direction and we need to give it support and stabilize the state and move in that direction that we are true, we are very late very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm an optimist, a little optimist that in these few years we're going to do one good thing and in that part of recycling and everything we're going to do one step that we really haven't really been, and I believe it, and this year I see plans to go into drastic change. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67896	Thank you, too. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67897	My colleague Misic, your mate, is entitled to believe in the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, Milorad Pupovac and Mr Vrdoljak and others, and this is your right, however, here we are talking about life problems and regulations that are being passed, even in 2007 have passed these regulations, but the terms have been mixed so that they can manipulate the Ministry of Environment with the waste mafia. I have cited my example, since 2007 I have struggled to give... The industrial one does not delay with the mines, along the river Cetina where someone was supposed to raise billions, and the river Cetina was a minor problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we're talking about legal regulations here, and that's why the MOST Club is going to make certain amendments to this bill, but this should have been passed long ago. We're now saying, we're making four regulations, four directives into one law so they don't penalize us. Well, the easiest thing to do is to get these regulations out of hand, but not to apply them. The fact that Plitvice Lakes, Slavonski Brod, Lomnica, Cetina, the thermopower plant, everything that threatens the environment, we endanger the future of our children. We just borrowed that nature from our children. We have no right to destroy her because of someone's interest. Legal regulations yes, but to apply because it's not enough to prescribe, we can prescribe all the best laws of the United States, the EU, and raise our hands... However, application, and application by the executive authority, by ministers and secretaries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are the ones who are in charge of inspections, the services that are under them. I expect as an agent, no matter what we are in most, the minority, in which we are foreigners, it is our duty and responsibility to ask the executive authority, they are obliged to tell us what to do to protect our nature and sustainable development in the Republic of Croatia is something... , eco-production, tourism, and unfortunately in Plitvice is an example of how not to work, import... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A potato instead of a face. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67898	Time, thank you. And now, in the end, the closing word in front of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, Mr. Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67899	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn you that these changes to the environmental law will not solve the problem created by the floating LNG terminal in Omiseye because, according to the proposal we have a yearly 300 tonnes of varicine will go straight to the sea. So imagine if someone told you we have a project that predicts that 300 tons of varicine, that means a day almost a ton, goes straight to the sea. Of course, there will be marine poisoning, environmental pollution, and thus the poisoning of people who eat fish and deal with fishing. I would also like to say that at the Vela Summit, on Dren's side of the river we also had an absurd situation recently. In fact, the person who was subsequently identified by the police left barrels with some kind of mule or some larger oil product that is pornic, girls, and simply poisons the environment. All possible state institutions, from the Ministry of Environmental Protection to Croatian Waters, to the communes of Rijeka, etc., have been appointed as competent to handle this waste, and no one has acted on that waste. My question is why and if, by any chance, this is not an act, negligent and negligent law why these amendments of the law do not clearly define who is obliged to resuscitate such a thing as to say the wild disposal of dangerous waste when it happens because we see that only balls are currently being transferred. But what I'm saying is even worse is the case in the Omisphere where it's not only that the state doesn't act in a way to protect the environment from pollution being done by someone else, but it itself approves a project that will, by its own admission, mean it's written in an environmental study that leads to environmental pollution and human poisoning. And to point out the important thing, the project was also rejected by the Omisalj Municipality and the Primorje-Gorski County. The question arises why are eco-inadmissible projects being pushed on the one hand in Croatia and on the other, why does the obvious pollution of the environment that seems illegal not act in a way that is being remedied? I believe that these changes in practice will not change much, or as we can see in the case of the Omis or Drenov or the Great Summit near Rijeka will not change anything at all. And that, in my court, is also about 90% of the legal changes that are being made here, which is that they do not represent any real changes in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67900	Does the Secretary of State Mr. Mile Horvat want to take the final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67901	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs and all the parliamentary deputies who have supported the adoption of this law through individual debates and replicas because we think this is a very important matter. We could probably have done it after the first reading, as my colleague Bacic said here, but here was the opportunity to re-enter a problem called environmental protection. I'm here to answer to my colleagues or to my fellow MPs. I'm going to try to answer some of the topics I think they're looking for an explanation. First, to a respected representative, Bulju would say that the new Environmental Protection Act was not passed in 2007, it's an old law. The last current law in which we are now intervening or amending it because of these directives was adopted in 2013. As far as the Lower Lomnica is concerned, I will say that the environmental impact assessment process, so I repeat the environmental impact assessment process was completed for the Lower Lomnica solution in 2010, ended in a way that all were legally entitled to participate in the public debate, give their suggestions or dispute parts of the procedure. No one has disputed anything since 2010. During that period, the investor obtained a valid location and building permit based on such a solution, all by law and based on it. Now in 2018 or 2017, someone intervenes and asks us to take the whole process by reviewing the study itself, which is primarily not intended as a legal instrument by the Environmental Protection Act. Study review after ten years. The second thing, the spatial plan outlined the location, no one objected or challenged the process of adopting a spatial plan. The third thing, the ministry itself has prescribed environmental protection measures and inspections are controlling it. The implementation of the prescribed environmental protection measures at Lower Lomnica shall be subject to inspection by the manner in which the prescribed measures are implemented. So we ask the question, why in ten years or eight years has no one responded to this fact? And now that the investor is going to stop him and send a message to all investors that we are the space where it is possible after ten years to reach both the location and the building permit and... and expect that then... the space for investment is attractive. So much for Lower Lomnica. As for Slavonski Brod, I said in the closing statement at first reading that we as a ministry launched an initiative where we and the Republika Srpska Ministry, which under their law is responsible for this kind of communication and conversation, launched an initiative to define the cooperation protocol for the realisation of the Slavonski Brod gasification project, I think it is the end of the 9th month. 3.10. The government of the Republic of Croatia therefore accepted the draft protocol, verified and the ministry therefore Minister Coric signed the protocol with Minister Djokic on 31.10.2017. The further initiative related to the gasification of the ship is exclusively in the process and in the jurisdiction of private entities, on our part that it is Crodux that this is the gas that needs all the gasification to implement into the gas system of the Republic of Croatia and on the other hand is the owner, therefore, of the refinery. Otherwise, the city itself has brought an action plan to the town of Slavonski Brod, to improve air quality, it has been found that it is absolutely the largest dominant source of air pollution of the sulfurconductors is the refinery, but it is not the only one. And I'm gonna stop there because there's no authority to comment on their action plan. Therefore, as a ministry, we did what we did as representatives of the state, the executive authorities were obliged to do in the whole process of gasification of the Bosnian Ship refinery. Mr. Pernaru regarding the LNG floating terminal, he would say that the environmental impact assessment process is ongoing. During the public debate, a large number of objections and opinions were received. As with so far, before the final decision is made, the ministry will consider all opinions and proposals of the public and the opinion of the advisory expert committee and we will make a decision. I must say that in this advisory committee and representatives of the municipality of Omisalj and the county. Therefore, the ministry is not the only participant and participant in the assessment of these solutions. And in the end, I would say to the honourable representative Vlaovic, I refer to the article. 63-75 of the Environmental Protection Act. So, a strategic environmental impact assessment, in 2015, the law was changed precisely in part of a strategic assessment, but not because we wanted to, but because of EU pilots, and then the methodology for adopting a strategic environmental impact assessment is in line with the EU methodology and cannot otherwise. So we can't react to the suggestion of a respected representative, Vlaovic, in a way that we will have some kind of model in our own way, as we bring a strategic environmental impact assessment. We agreed with EU regulations, otherwise we have pilots, and behind that, we have a penalization. Thank you, thank you again for accepting the reasons for passing this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67902	But we have a few replicas. The first one is Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67903	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, it's never good, when one of these topics of life, accept the politics of the note. So I listen specifically to the asphalt bases in Lower Lomnica. So it's all done by law, but one elemental question is raised, which is the functioning of local self-government. Whether at the time of the study on environmental protection and impact, the issue of local and construction self-government, local self-government was in the spotlight. That's a key question to me. Because sometimes when such documents are done, then you get a little out of it, because the debates are being held within the local committee, etc. Then probably those who say they didn't know, they wouldn't have the right to say it. However, I think that in order to solve this problem, no one should raise political problems. That's just not gonna help these people. It is true that perhaps 500 m of airways from there are three wells of water supplying water to Velika Gorica. However, I think the solution to this problem is that the minister or his associate, who will give him some authority to receive these people from the delegations from Donja Lomnica and to explain in peace, shows what it is and how it is. Because this is how you chase someone who, even if you let them go now, they wouldn't know where they are, where that base is, but they're afraid of it. Let's just say, that asphalt base is maybe five miles from my house. And I know where it is. So there was once a great industrially appropriate industry. But, Mr. Secretary of State, I didn't intend to be here, and I've never led a policy like that, I've been collecting political points, but I care about my fellow citizens, and I'd like to ask Minister Coric to receive an emissary, people from Lower Lomnica, not just those who protest, but from that village, and to clear it up where it needs to be cleared up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67904	Thank you, Mr. Shuker. You want to answer right now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67905	I'm just going to answer to my esteemed colleague Shucker. So the local administration had objections to the procedure and the ministry replied that they had stopped reporting. ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67906	Please. Mr. Klaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67907	In your presentation, you also mentioned an example when discussing the adoption of a spatial plan an excavated permit about how something had been prepared and done for 10 years, and you asked a hypothetical question, why no one had responded. Now I ask you a question why no ministry of yours, or the Minister and Government, has ever responded to the reaction of the city of Bakar, to the reaction of numerous associations and citizens to the evidence of inappropriate air impurities from floating particles in the air, to the pollution of the sea, to the pursuit of activity, without a sewer system. You've got all this information up at the ministry. All your inspections have been notified of this and of me personally, filed criminal charges and no one is responding. And this day the port of Rijeka does the work of crossing the scattered burden, on the coast of the sea. I invite both you and the Minister and the employees of your ministry to come down to my city and see what's going on there and how it's done. And I'm forced to talk about this problem this way. Because no one solves it, and we react all the time. We've been responding for years, pointing to this problem, and no one's doing anything. And that city has been dusted, that city is filled with coal ore, coal ore is being put into the sea and the ministry is doing nothing about it. Now your question is why no one reacted to the process of building a spatial plan. My question is why doesn't anyone react when something like this happens today in my city and my citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67908	Thank you very much. Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67909	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. I would also refer to your comment on the situation in the Bosnian Ship and the allegations that you have stated, it is actually very problematic that the government's statement actually reduces the harmfulness of the Rafinery in the Bosnian Ship and that it relativises it in a way that it is not the only one. They can agree that the view is not the only one, but what with their statements should certainly indicate in which percentage those who are not the only ones who are so influential, that it would not turn out in the end that our official policy becomes focused in a way that we support Mr. Dodig's policy where he also claims that the refinery in the Bosnian Ship is not a contaminant. What you also know about is that the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship is technologically backward so that this gasification initiative will help Mr. Cermak's project and his thermal power plant to recogeneration, again something that will burden our citizens rather than address the issue of pollution from the Bosnian Ship Refinery. Therefore, I guarantee you that you will measure in very small percentages the improvement in air quality that will be after the gasification, and it will be very visible on the citizens' accounts how much they will be burdened. Therefore, let's not relativize the problem of the Refinery in the Ship is all data, and you have access to our intelligence services that are available to you will show that the lack of investment, long-term absence, the creation of a negative financial result is in fact only one geostrategic policy that has the Russian owner there, that it is definitely not something that will improve the situation in Slavonski Brod or the state of the air, and unfortunately here is the citizen of the Bosnian Ship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67910	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67911	Dear Parliamentarian. So not to stay in the air, so we at the ministry absolutely do not relativise the problem of pollution by the Bosnian Ship, that we think that this is a relative problem then would not, in the last six months, be involved with the minister and the entire college with regard to the model of solving that problem. I'm only if you followed me to quote something that's official, and you can look it up on Slavonko Brod. Someone was working under a certain official document and measurement. I didn't say in which relationships, which are the size, I just said that these measurements as an official document showed that they weren't the only ones, that it wasn't the only source of pollution, but absolutely the Bosnian Ship of Refinery is a more dominant source of pollution, that nobody slows it down. And we, as a ministry, have hired the greatest effort to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67912	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67913	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I can't help but look back on Slavonski Brod's problem, but many have pointed out. For nine years the citizens of Slavonski Brod have been struggling with this problem, we now expect that the interstate problem is that they will experience their end. Of course, in the last two years and the ministry, resolutely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister of the Republic, has all been involved in solving this major air pollution problem in Slavonski Brod. The truth is we know that after the gasification of the Refinery in Slavonski Brod we may not have clean air, but the biggest pollutant is certainly the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship, we know that this problem is now two economic operators, but all eyes remain on your ministry. Therefore, the citizens of Slavonski Brod continue to expect you to be essentially some kind of control in solving this problem, although I said it was still a problem or whether it was all within the jurisdiction of the two economic operators Crodux and the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. And, of course, thank the ministry and everyone who has been in the last two years has gone to the maximum to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67914	Thank you, too. I don't see an answer request. And the last replica of Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67915	Thank you very much. So, Mr. Secretary of State, you finally touched the strategic environmental impact assessment. The strategic impact assessment on the environment was one newspaper introduced into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and the paper was the moment when we harmonised our regulations with EU rules. It was first recognised and introduced in the Netherlands in the EU. For what reason? For the reason that the Netherlands has polluted soil and strategic environmental impact assessments have been made for new spatial plans. And those of us who have had the opportunity to participate in this whole story, I, as someone who deals with spatial planning, think it's extremely good that when you're doing a new spatial plan, first of all strategically from the aspect of environmental protection, you judge what is possible there or not. As the entire environmental protection regulation changes, I will not say it is serving, but it is regulated so that the strategic impact assessment of environmental impacts has grown significantly than it was in the beginning and today in the law we have what you are here in response to the esteemed representative said that it is working for programmes, that it is working for studies, that it is working for different things, but it is also about the process of amending and supplementing the same programmes and studies and spatial plans. I was one of those when the changes and the addition of the spatial plan and strategic assessment were related to the fact that let's say that if you want to make a road change in the length of a kilometer of the spatial plan you can make in a significantly shorter time than it is possible to make a strategic assessment you have to do. The legislation is what it is, and therefore the point is that our representatives in the EU and all those who deal with it react in time because not the things they bring there are not always the end of the interest to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67916	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when you get the terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67917	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 182. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by MP Slaven Dobrović. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be informed of the amendment submitted. With us is respected Mile Horvat, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. So, we have one amendment from the distinguished colleague Dobrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67918	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposed amendment is not accepted. The definitions of how the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act have been proposed are in line with the relevant definitions in EU directives and are further used in the text of the law and its implementing rules. The addition of new concepts to the law would also require comprehensive and long-term activities which are not acceptable in this case, given that the necessary amendments to the law are due to possible violations of European law and EU pilots.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67919	Comrade Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67920	Thank you very much. I'm not satisfied. I think we'll all agree that the question of language is a very important question. So we have to worry about the language. So this law, amendments and additions, is taken over by the 2007 concept of law that is inconsistencies, inconsistencies, in fact bad. And how many more seminar work, graduation and final work will our children do by consulting the wrong term. I don't think that's allowed, and I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67921	So we're going to vote now on an amendment that the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. Thank you, Secretary of State. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so let us then move on to a vote on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 108 votes in favour, 13 abstentions and 2 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67922	I conclude the debate, we will vote when you get the conditions and move on to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on the Research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 258 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, provisions relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr Ivo Milatić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67923	... Assembly, respected parliamentary and respected parliamentary representatives of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] You have before you a draft proposal for a Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons which regulates the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, research and exploitation of geothermal waters from which accumulated heat can be used for energy purposes, storage of natural gas and permanent disposal of carbon dioxide. The main objectives planned to achieve this bill are to address the problem of double or overlapping competences of the central state authorities responsible for energy and the economy in the realisation of carbon and geothermal hydrocarbon research and exploitation projects, natural gas storage and permanent carbon dioxide disposal. This proposal also addresses the problem of non-compliance with Directive 2009/31 on the geological storage of carbon dioxide with Directive 2000/60 establishing a framework for the action of the Community in the field of water policy and Directive 2013/30 on safety in the field of coastal exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons and teaching on open EU pilots Nos 8559/16 and 8440/16 and injury Nos. 2016/2128. An important legal framework governing the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia constitutes the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons, the Law on Safety in Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation and the Mining Act. The current Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons regulates the management of hydrocarbons, the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, the issue of a permit for exploration, the conclusion of contracts for exploitation, compensation and other issues. However, as regards the establishment of hydrocarbon reserves, the identification of an exploitation field, the register of research spaces and exploitation fields, the production and verification of mining projects, the construction and use of mining facilities and facilities, the production of mining plans and the implementation of mining measures, the recovery of space, the compensation of damages, security measures and protection, the technical arrangements for the performance of certain mining operations and other issues not covered by that law, the provisions of the Mining Act and the rules adopted under the Mining Act shall apply accordingly. This Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which we propose, enables a single process and process from a public competition for research space through detection and evaluation phases to determine the field of exploitation, the development of fields, the production of hydrocarbons and the end of the recovery. It also enables better control of oil and gas reserves, as well as reducing administrative barriers, as well as encouraging new investments in the hydrocarbon and geothermal water research and exploitation segment. Since 1941, a total of 111 million metres of cubic oil, about 10 million meters of cubic condensates and some 96 billion metres of cubic natural gas have been obtained. About 3,600 wells were made of which is about 918 probes. In the early 1980s, the oil industry had the biggest momentum in Croatia, these years intensified the production of new wells in the Pannonian swimming pool and thus discovered the largest exploitation fields and as a result of intensive activities in 1981, the largest amount of oil obtained was recorded and amounted to 3.7 million cubic metres. Along with the discovery of new oil fields, gas fields were followed by the discovery that culmination would be released in the production of offshore exploitation fields in the Adriatic at the end of the 1990s. The largest annual amount of gas obtained in Croatia was recorded in 2007, at 3,354 billion cubic metres. Today, the situation is much worse, oil is produced with 37 oil fields on land, average age 41, gas is produced with 18 gas fields on land, 32 years average, and 11 gas fields on the Adriatic, an average of 12 years. Only a few fields produce most of the hydrocarbons, and in particular we are plagued by a strong decline in production in the gas fields of Deep Podravina and a significant drop in production on the Adriatic in the coming years where the variations of possible decommissions should actually be considered. The total of Croatia today produces an oil of 706,000 metres cubic meters, which is about 20ths of our needs, a condensate of 104 000 metres of cubic meters, and a gas of a billion and 153 meters of cubic meters, which is just over 50%. As for oil reserves, in the Republic of Croatia from 2006 to 2016 we can monitor a slight increase in oil reserves due to the improvement in the production technology, while the condensation reserves record an almost constant decline. During the same period in the Republic of Croatia, we can monitor the constant fall of gas reserves from the circus 40 billion metres cubic meters to 11 billion cubic meters for 2017. The fall is most likely in the exploitation fields of gas in the northern Adriatic. In both oil and condensate such gasses, there is a slight increase in reserve recovery by detecting new hydrocarbon exploitation fields. Taking into account the current production conditions and the oil and gas production reserves without additional investment, the quantities acquired have become insufficient for cost-effective exploitation since 2030 and all existing exploitation fields can be expected to be closed. Therefore, a new competition for hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation in the Republic of Croatia will be opened immediately after the law is passed. The lack of investigative space in the area of the Pannonian swimming pool, which is six investigative spaces. Each research space is the average size of 2000 km2 and for research spaces in the Dinarid area of four research spaces. Each research space is the average size of 4000 m2. It is also important to stress that the law removes all the administrative barriers investors face, and is in line with best world practices. In addition to new competitions for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, competitions for research and exploitation of geothermal water for energy purposes are also planned. Given that the Pannonian swimming pool of the Republic of Croatia has a 60% higher thermal gradient than the European average, we believe that by intensifying and valorising this huge natural potential hundreds of megawatts of new clean renewable and stable energy could be achieved. Finally, the implementation of this law will achieve a higher level of efficiency of energy work in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the promotion of new investments in the hydrocarbon and geothermal water research and exploitation segment. This law also paves the way for new investment and maintenance of domestic production which has strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia as it ensures a certain degree of energy security. We therefore propose to the Parliament that this law be passed in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67924	Thank you very much. You have two replicas. First Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67925	Thank you very much. Secretary, we're passing the Hydrocarbon Research Act. However, a key issue is being raised in the Republic of Croatia mainly in our strategic company INA, which is hostilely alienated. This should be spoken publicly and discussed and not stood to discuss where this oil will be processed, which will be exploited in new fields of exploitation and current oil when we witness that in the Sisak refinery the heart of the company is being shut down, the plant that is one of the most significant plants. So, where's all this going to be processed? Did the Croatian state raise its hands and silence, i.e. I will continue to speak chicken washing by allowing the Hungarians to process our oil that is exploited in Croatia in their country. In the fields of exploitation, there is profit, and we are just their gas station where we will pay them and where they will subtract the profits, and of course the Sisak refinery will be shut down. Because the answer of the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection is absolutely not in line with the people who are fighting for the survival of the Sisak refinery, and it is simply the simplest answer to my question of where oil will be produced, in which refineries will be produced, where it will be processed. Do you have that information when we're witnessing that refinery is essentially shutting down? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67926	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67927	Here, Agent Bulj, today we have the Explosion and Hydrocarbon Research Act on the agenda. So he doesn't prescribe where oil will be processed and in what way. Clearly, that's what some other laws are about. But the absolute government of the Republic of Croatia does everything and will make it clear that all oil is processed as much as possible in Croatian refineries and in this direction you are familiar with the actions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in terms of what is planned to be done with regard to INA. The process of selecting consultants is ongoing and in due time we will also have answers to these questions, and so far it is on the agenda of the Law on the Exploitation and Research of Hydrocarbons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67928	Thank you very much. Mr. Majer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67929	I would like to thank the Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The association of the municipalities of the Republic of Croatia and the communities of the County, on a proposal from representatives from the area of Koprivnica-Criszeva County, Virovitica-Podravska, Bjelovarska bilogorska and Sisakko-Moslavina, asked the competent ministry to determine the distribution of the hydrocarbon charge by the Law on Research and Exploitation. By regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would replace the rules governing the distribution. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The law, and since this is not included in the new law, and it has been seen to be a major initiative of local self-government and regional self-government, and since it is the first reading, so I appeal to be included in the law. Because I'm saying interest is both the county and the local self-government unit. Amendment to Article 53 Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67930	Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67931	Your Honor, this law is absolutely when you read in detail the position of local self-government that will potentially have in its field of exploitation, research, exploitation and later production of hydrocarbons in a much, much better position. It is known to you that the ministry could not accept the bill that was here in this respected House some time ago. Given the commitments we signed as the Republic of Croatia and clearly that is simply not possible. But, based on the new law, you will no longer have that kind of access to compensation for local self-government, but it will be much bigger and more generous since it is being introduced here, except for all the classic fees that we have previously had in the law, we are introducing the Institute of Production Division, which means, out of that total income, that local self-government, based on regulations and sub-legal acts that will come out of it, will have greater income. So this law goes in the direction of what your intensity was, in the end, that you as local self-government have higher incomes. That law goes that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67932	Thank you very much. Last line, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67933	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. In this law, through two provisions, one newspaper was introduced, or one finding, so I would like the secretary of state to answer us, maybe he knows something that we don't. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 (OJ L 348, 30.12.2013, p. 1). The 18th was defined as referring to the exploitation So it would be good to know which national oil company, which article 18 refers to. And equally, it is also related to the provision of an article. 39th, which says when a national oil company comes forward, then there are certain discounts, and then the government is behind it through a provision. The 39th way in which it is defined can also enable further establishment of some new consortiums. I am primarily interested in the national oil company, which is covered by the provision of the Article. 18 of this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67935	Thank you, Your Honor. It is logical that by proposing a new law, we foresee such an opportunity that what is fundamental in this whole story, which is that in case the Croatian state needs to buy the quantities of hydrocarbons acquired for itself and its needs, and this is done, for example, in cases of potential threats and potential security needs, predicting that a national company can do so. There is no national company at this time, which can do so, in the sense that it is 100% owned by the state of Croatia, but we do not write the law for today when it does not exist, we write for some future time. And we as a proposer and government, since this law has passed all government bodies, has predicted that possibility, which in the future will be, it remains to be seen. We have before us an energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia which is in the works, which will be adopted in the course of this year. Of course she'll give answers to the questions you've asked me now. I can't answer them to you right now, except that it's exactly foreseen that the national company, which is defined as a 100% state-owned company, has the right to a first-time contract and we think it's a good provision in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67936	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We move to the debate in front of the Club of Representatives of the Bridge of Independent Lists Mr Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67937	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Today, here is a law that is definitely by its name and content one of the laws, which is of the key strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, and finally is mentioned in Article 5 that actually the basic document, planning, researching the exploitation of hydrocarbons is a strategy for energy development of the Republic of Croatia. But I would immediately point out that we have a document that's from 2009. And if we look at the contents of its key provisions, primarily the hydrocarbon, as such, we see that as a state we do not adhere to our strategic document. In fact, it states that one of the items, that it will be encouraged, will seek a solution to speed up the completion of the refinery's modernisation. So, when we look at it, there is also the government itself, Prime Minister Plenkovic, who recently said that the decision to close the works, the installation of part of the supervisory board, has actually confirmed that INA as an oil company, its bodies, and ultimately the government does not respect the strategic document that has been adopted, which has not been changed yet. So I would demand either the ruling majority or change it or respect it. Because this is how we break the basic act that applies to this part. Why do I mention the refinery? Because it's one of the key infrastructure facilities that gets the amount of hydrocarbon obtained, which, after researching the implantation, needs to be processed somewhere. The very problem of processing is something that is here, and during the negotiations that I have conducted, when I signed contracts with INA and Vermilion on research works was clearly indicated and Vermilion himself confirmed that their interest was to rework oil in the nearest refinery that they have, precisely because of this cost that would be incurred by transport as small as possible and they were the most interested in that part. If we look at who can process, we primarily think here, the research work is on the continental part where there were no obstacles to this realization, so we get to Sisak where the minimum transport costs are, and after that, the options they impose, if Sisak doesn't process this oil, then what's left? The Bosnian Ship remains, we see problems here from the previous debate, which is the very technological level of the Bosnian Ship so low, and we know that the INA has already offered to the Bosnian Ship to process, so we would also encourage pollution. Until transport in Rijeka, many problems and security problems are also related to logistics, and I intervened several times when they were testing these models and then we get to what MOL wants, which is transportation to Hungary to their refinery. Someone's going to say that the expensive transport cost is about 40 bucks a ton, but when we look at that it's mostly oil that's from a site that's already amortized research works that were there and that they have a strategic interest, it's no wonder. So on the one hand, we have a law here that translates the content of these contracts into a document that we want to speed up research and exploitation jobs about hydrocarbons, and everyone has found out, so here's the secretary of state to reduce our capacity. On the other hand, we are destroying a infrastructure that needs to be helped to process it in order for these jobs to contribute to development. What hurts me personally by coming from Slavonia means by research, by exploiting most of the oil comes from the area where I live and is being processed in Sisak which is also an area of Moslavina which is one of the Croatian areas that has problems in development. With these decisions we are losers, simply neither will there be research or exploitation so that they can make income there, nor will they be processed in Moslavina, and that may be one partial interest that leads to this finding, but unfortunately that is our reality. Furthermore, one of the questions that is asked the same way when oil and is exploited, the fees were miserable. At present, the oil available to other hydrocarbons INA is a very favourable one for which all local self-government leaders are not defined, and here I have followed the debate where the request was one where it is responsible it will be solved in future time. But this future time here is in no way possible and it is a key issue and for the sake of earlier quantities that are excluded when local self - administration will benefit from it. What I would like to point out is that I remained so surprised by the fact that in Croatia there are illegally built oil and mining facilities and facilities. I wonder, and who built such plants if we know that INA was state-owned, that it's a good part and now, that one serious, respectable company, I wonder how these illegal buildings are located in the first place, and why they got the possibility of legalization over the next three years. A little bit of that, given that it is a very sensitive subject, anything related to exploitation where environmental standards are, here is the very proposal for this law very clearly defines a number of demanding actions and that we come to the conclusion that in Croatia we find that such facilities or facilities are illegally built. It's a little bit of something that's so very problematic to communicate with them at all, so I think that this should be something for both the parliamentary representatives and the public to show what's illegal and how it's even happened to see where these problems in the system that part of the system didn't work at all. What we have yet to stress is that we would not want from this initiative that I would and would welcome to have one misunderstanding that refers to another part of this bill, which is a study of the exploitation of hydrocarbons at sea. The position of the Independent Lists Bridge was clear that from the beginning we do not support actions that would have any possibility of harming the sea, flora and fauna, as well as the tourism that we see holding our head above the water is certainly neither this government nor those before the government would have been able to show positive shifts if there were no tourism right now. And that's why I'd like to get a little more detailed on exactly what the framework plan will look like and the hydrocarbon exploitation research programme on the Adriatic is, is that a question that no one has asked in the public debate, he didn't look back on it. However, any action related not only to research in the Croatian part of the Adriatic but we followed very closely when I was a minister, I see and watch the state of research later, possibly researchers in Montenegro cause one fear and fear for the future of the current economic branch, which is our strongest, which is tourism. So you would beg here a little bit that this law or has a clear definition that will regulate this problem by law if it is not in this law or what is the position. Therefore, I would return here again to the very beginning of the 2009 energy development strategy, we have it no one respects. We see that current decisions are also made that do not comply with the strategy, the law is now passed, and we do not have a strategy. We will have a law before we are given a strategy that we have to realise is an unusual situation and we are left with numerous enquiries, primarily those relating to strategic positioning on the use of further processing and management of hydrocarbons, where and this indication that the national Croatian company would participate in research and processing capacity, and even more difficult because if national companies do not have processed capacity, sufficient capacity, then I simply do not see how we will define this strategy. And there should be said and the problem of the Sisak refinery itself is that it is currently based solely on the processing of domestic oil and working periodically, how to purchase quantities and then we talk if there is no processing in Sisak, Rijeka is not purposely adapted for it, it will have difficulties, so everything we find, we will transport beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. These are some of the discussions that we have put before the Ministry, before the Government, so I hope that by the second reading we will have a little more elaborate and views and the thesis because one is the content of the law, the other are the the thesis that the Government declares in its work, and hopefully until the second reading and the the thesis will be more clearly clarified and that we can then discuss the adoption of a law in which we have no objection in good work, but what we have stated certainly causes fear and fear, and that will prove from today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67938	Thank you, too. You have several replicas, first Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67939	Thank you very much. Representative Panenic would have asked you a similar question, but I didn't get an answer from the secretary because he obviously can't even say it. But Croatia finally had to talk about it, Croatia's policies should be a strong message that Croatia will turn into an explosive field of hydrocarbons and mineral raw materials from foreign investors, however, the fact is that in your debate you hit the heart of the problem and the heart of the problem is that here we were talking about the relief of the exploitation of hydrocarbons by this law. It means oil that will not be processed in Croatia because it is clearly shutting down the mammalian refinery. This is why we have 2/3 of Croatia's empty, Sisak-Moslavina County and all the counties that could essentially benefit from this and the survival of people in these areas. And not only that, but Croatia's policy does not have the courage to declare an exclusive economic belt, and it probably has both the influence and the oil mafia because it has obviously mastered it and the Croatian institutions, mainly energy, because it does not have the strength to declare what the EU requires of us, to regulate jurisdiction over the Adriatic Sea, over our right, our territory. If, by anything, Croatia is recognizable, and especially if it draws strength from what is in this part of Europe, and larger territorial waters are from the mainland and we do not protect them either. Whatever the '82 convention. For years, we who are signatories have the right to an exclusive economic belt. We're scared. Who? Oil mobs. The energy mafia, which is 2/3 of Croatia, is empty. It's not just the case in this example, it's also in the wind power plants, and of course the HNS is the feather of that story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67940	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67941	Dear Representative Bulj, I would have shared my answer in two parts since there was a question. As far as the processing itself is concerned, of course the refinery in Sisak has one key problem, which is that the INA or its real, real owner MOL will never lead to final shutdown because one of our tools with which we can press is precisely the issue of decommissioning, i.e. Resuscitation of the terrain if anyone dares even lead to a shut-down that's somewhere on the level of about 4 billion kuna. So I didn't as a minister get an explanation from that side, on their part who would bear those costs and then what economic logic is. So if we have a situation now that no one has ever seen the financial result of the refinery's operations in Sisak, and it's said that it's not worth it, if we know that shutting down one plant is going to reduce efficiency, then the real question is what we're going to have later, because on this whole scale, we're going to have a logistics center, so that would be one of the biggest logistics centers in this part of Europe, no, everything will do that they don't have to reschedul the ground. Speaking of recovery, it's also a matter of sea. It may be something to collect, however, resulting from hydrocarbon research and possible exploitation, a havara that may sooner or later occur on those oil parts. So in gas it's also a profession and in general the public, there are some touching points that can't do that damage, but in this oil work, the damage to tourism would be irreparable and this position that we now have would be very quickly lost. Who would answer then? Of course, the legislator must now interpret them as treating these strategic branches in future times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67942	Thank you, too. Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67943	Dear Representative Panenic, we are talking here about some law on hydrocarbons that will solve problems in Croatia and with this storage and market of oil products, but until Croatia is a sovereign state, as long as our oil industry is managed outside and from Hungary, so far Croatia will be in a position to follow other people's directives and will do what others tell us. It is a shame that Prime Minister Plenkovic commented on the suspension of a part of the refinery in Sisak, saying "It is a business decision". One day will be a business decision will be a business decision to shut down the entire refinery, one day people will lose their jobs, but unfortunately that nobody cares, and the legislator who proposes such solutions would rather hear from him a solution to return INA to Croatian hands, how INA will be managed from Zagreb, not from another foreign centre of power. And in the end, the question arises why they even sold INA to and why they made us dependent on foreign will and foreign interests instead of being on our own. Both large parties and HDZ and SDP and those who co-operated with them in the sale of Croatia will eventually understand the execution of their decisions, i.e. the negative consequences for society, the sale of state assets. And instead of stopping such a policy, we are constantly serving the announcements of new privatisations, including HEP, which will be negative for the citizens and for our society again because they will make us dependent on others, because they will act destructively on the development, that is, the self-sustainability of our country and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67944	Thank you. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67945	Dear Representative Pernar, so it is only enough to note that we had a situation until two years ago where the financial result of INA was negative, and where the MOL that managed the INA showed multiple positive financial results and it was not unusual to anyone. It would be unusual for me, because if they consolidate, say business, then there must also be a financial result of both groups at about the same level. Therefore, there we can say that it was simply a drawdown of capacity. And now we come to, exactly what you have mentioned the decisions or statements of the Prime Minister that I consider to be far from the position to be represented by the head of state. So the prime minister's position and MOL's leadership are in line. On the other hand, we have a president who seems to share the position of the Croatian people. I think there is one problem here that we can't be a sovereign state if all the top people of Croatian key institutions don't share the same views because we're weak and there find ways to actually discredit us. Any statement and the arbitration that follows us will be considered if one prime minister does not fight for his refinery, as we plan to obtain even arbitration. And I believe he's terribly afraid to be a negative result. Not only does he fear, but he also helps to reflect it negatively, all together. How the Croatian arbitration officer will defend his country's views if he does not have support in the current policy. Well, we had that in the last government of the vice president who openly advocated that policy, and now we have a prime minister. I think we've made a mistake in choosing the leaders in the first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67946	Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67947	Thank you very much. You mentioned the provisions in this law regarding the legalization of illegal construction. It's about the hydrocarbon exploitation. I must say that I have seen an awful lot of illegal construction and believe it or not, probably in the area of the municipality where you were chief has a mountain of lawless construction that refers to infrastructure, to roads and everything else. And these provisions allow for the legalization of all this together, because indeed one of the serious, illegal builders was the state itself when it was building. However, this law through these provisions will allow for legalisation of exploitation. That exploitation was done by an INA that was owned by the time she did it. Through the applicable permit that is intended to be issued, we will actually legalise it and allow MOL to continue to manage and work with it. So there's two things to tell. One thing legalizing the fact that a procedure in space exists, that something is used in space, exploited, but on the other hand, the problem is who will, therefore, use the permission today to get the MOL. So he's going to get some more benefits besides all those contracts he's had so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67948	Thank you, too. Mr. Panenic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67949	Dear MPs, Dark-Taritash. I'm primarily the security aspect, because we see from the content of this law that the criteria to even get to the exploitation itself are very demanding. The profession, the projects and everything else is based on security. Because any incident that could happen with this disrupts a wide area, and it's very, very, very difficult to say, and resolution, it's a huge cost. Well, that's why I stayed and I was fraternized by the fact that there are such objects of this guy that they're not, in fact, illegal character. And then I ask you, okay. and what our plan is to protect against such incident situations, how we base it if we can't actually identify the objects because they don't exist. They are not as such shown, they have no basics, they have no building permit, they have no conditions under which they are set, and we should worry about possible situations in which they can be found. I'm not an opponent not to legalize it, but I'm surprised it could have happened at all to that kind of object. So if we talk once about some nuclear strategy, what we would have had is not to have some object inside the Krško nuclear power plant, by chance illegally built, someone upgraded it a little bit. And then the question opens up exactly the security that we demand from the Hungarian government in the Paks where we see that upgrades are being discussed as upgrades. But also speaking of previous technology that has its own shortcomings, which will mean in future time. We have a Republic of Croatia which, I apologize to Austria, which is a good example where they react already now, have a consistent attitude. We seem to have an attitude that we should support such an object in neighbouring Hungary, and we do not fight for our interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67950	Thank you. Mr. Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67951	Dear Vice-President Panenic, the ministry's representatives. You mentioned exploitation and research in the Adriatic area. Do in your opinion research and exploitation in the Adriatic, yes or no, potential damage to tourism, or explore exploitation with adequate protection and insurance. But in order to explain and bring that closer to those who are watching us outside the assembly, the Adriatic is a bit of a closed sea. On the half of the Italian part of the Adriatic, there are 1358 investigative wells, and in Croatia 133. Italy has about 110 production gas wells, 38 oil active wells, and Croatia has no active oil wells, it has 38 gas wells. So for research, exploitation, it is said by eco associations that it is harmful for Croatian tourism. They're not worried about the seams in the Italian part, the part of the Adriatic, because they're saying that the direction of the current will take away all the dirt. But it's just a cobweb. Because there is research and exploitation in the area of Greece, it exists in the area of Albania and Montenegro. We know that in the area of Drac, there is an oil exploitation with pre-scheduled reserves of around 2 billion barrels of oil. That's four times more than that Macondo field in the Gulf of Mexico, when there was spillage and pollution in Florida. Among other things, around 70 million tons of oil and oil derivatives are transported annually through the Adriatic. That's 100 times more than the amount of oil that's poured out in the Gulf of Mexico.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67952	Thank you. Here he is, to be answered by the esteemed representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67953	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague you just gave a part of my answer in your speech. The question is actually streaming water through the Adriatic, so what's on the Italian side, unfortunately, isn't in our jurisdiction, but it's obvious that it can hardly do us any harm. I'm only talking about our strategic definition. We should then make a decision, whether we currently have more strategic tourism, or whether it is more strategically important for us to explore hydrocarbons and to introduce their exploitation on the Adriatic. At this point, I think everyone will confirm that tourism is currently a branch that is of strategic interest to us and I don't know who would have made the decision right now let's try something to do, so that there's a possible threat. If something changes someday, people, the Croatian people, who live at sea, will decide, but those living at sea who live on the sea will decide. We can't decide here on their behalf, even though I think it would be wrong, as I can from the continent, where there are no threats, where, at the end and the environmental protection association, when it was counseling, the contracts that went around research work, signed, had no objections to the continents. The remarks were exclusively taken to the Adriatic area and the will of the people should be respected. I'm up for it as long as it's not the ultimate necessity to try and maintain the state we have. And for that reason, foreign policy needs to give a part of the answer to you, which is how we also take our position, in fact how we express it towards Montenegro, to other countries, which can have potential damage to us by their activities. It is therefore again something that is part of Croatia's strategic setting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67954	Thank you very much. Now we're going to move on to the next club of MPs and that's that GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative, Anka Mrak Taritash, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67955	... A secretary with an associate. [[Specially enabled.]] We have before us the first reading of the Hydrocarbon Research and Exploitation Act. I'd like to continue here, perhaps, at the beginning of the discussion, which two distinguished colleagues led, which is a stand for, against. So we often know to take a clear stand for or against. But here I will, as I always know, tell a story, there somewhere 15 years ago I had the chance to be in Bavaria, which is behind the 2nd century. The whole Bavarian war turned into agriculture and they used their full potential for agriculture and then they realized about it about 15 years ago and they called it a natural return of nature. And then we were invited to show that the compensation they have for the plot, they get as if they had the largest cultivation of what they've been growing, but it was a condition that nothing on it grows and that it returns to nature. And then there was this little hot bar, and there were three frogs in that bar, and we all had to be very quiet, to hear how they brought our frogs back and how frogs crack. I said it might be Croatia's way not to do anything. To do everything out there and leave nature the way it is. This route of Croatia cannot be. And when someone says I'm on this or I'm on my own for that, it's absolutely unacceptable to me. And in the context of two laws and amendments to the two laws that we have in the parliamentary debate, one is about changing environmental protection, and the other is to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act, and between that we have this very law. So, all the new things that are done in Croatia are done by better standards, in a better way, with better conditions, but we have to give critical elements, we have to control it, and we need to know what we want. We're full of mouths about how successful tourist season is. The country that forms its economy on tourism alone is a country that will not go in the right direction, therefore, it is great that, excellent that we have good income and all together, but we need to look at other options, which are both others and see what our potentials are and with these potentials are serious, responsible and systematic management. So like when she started two, three years ago, she talks about hydrocarbons, and when we explained what research means, what a long way from research and exploiting thinking in GLAS didn't change, so thinking is the same thing. And now I'm going to talk a little bit about this law. Any law that comes to you in the debate should be viewed with several aspects. One aspect of how this law can be implemented, the other aspect is that the law is flexible enough, not that five lawyers find five different interpretations and the third aspect of the message, which we send to politics and what we want to result from that law. I've seen all kinds of laws in my life, good, bad, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak, yak. This is a law that has 203 articles and now 203, 204, 205 less important. However, there are 101 concepts in that provision where we define what the law means is 101 concepts, so we define all the wrinkled ones. So we have that the law could be implemented at all by six committees to enforce the law, and then in Article 17, you have about two pages of the text of this law where it is bound to criminal law. I think yesterday or the day before yesterday, I saw one of our colleagues who says there are amendments to the Penal Code, and as soon as the Penal Code changes a little bit and any provision changes in this Penal Code, I'm afraid they'll have to change some things in this law too, so we'll do a lot of it if they agree that this law is going to go, and we won't support it in the first reading, not because we say no exploitation shouldn't be, should be. We need to explore ourselves, we need to see what the potentials are, we need to take care of everything, we need to take care of it rather than for the simple reason that you trust me, this law will be difficult to implement. Then you have article 202 in which this law changes all other laws, so someone who will work at the Ministry of Economy under the Mining Act will not know that this law has changed one provision or one indent of that law. Why, among other things, is one of the reasons why this law goes? One of the reasons is that one service in one ministry was divided into two services, so the service that is tied up, there I see colleagues working in that ministry, so they know what I'm talking about, that service that's tied to those solid mineral raw materials, the stone and everything else is in the Ministry of Economy, and some of the people who are involved in the exploitation of hydrocarbons and geothermal waters went to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Energy. And not so long ago, we who remember for a long time, and I'm about to remember more and more what happened before, and not what happened today we warned about it and we said, don't make a mess of my people, but at least that service or the sector as you call it, leave it in the same ministry because it's gonna be hard to work. One of the reasons why we're going with this new law is because today it's hard to work if a couple of colleagues are sitting in one ministry in another ministry, this is defined through two laws and the Law on Mining and the Law on Hydrocarbons, so it's very, very hard to work. The same way you have when it comes to certain laws you can always pass, the state can say, at this point it's our priority I won't deliberately mention this, let's say the railroad and we'll bring up a lex specialis for the railroad that we'll define everything, then that lex specialis literally and bring it in. This is not so, this is not done in such a way, but you have at least two, three provisions which are already now and which I have warned the Committee on Legislatives and told colleagues to sit down a little bit, which are contrary to some other regulations. So you have one provision in the Environmental Protection Act that we have discussed until recently, and the same ministry is the one that says that an environmental impact assessment can only work on procedures that are planned by spatial plans or spatial order documents so that in this law it is not so. Equally last week we had in the debate of the State Property Act and there it turned out that the minister decided so through this law of Liberra enough that this ministry should do what was absolutely his opportunity to manage the Ministry... it is ours to say what we think and he said that on agriculture and on forest land he would no longer give consent, and in this law it says that no matter what, now there will be agreement in that ministry. Now I can tell it simply, and I can tell it complicatedly, but the point is that this law is already now and we know it's not in line with some other law. The law is regulated, the law is predetermined, the law goes into detail, and you know that there is a saying that "the way to hell is filled with good intentions". As you know, there's a modernity in everything, and you can see it very much in the order of the cafes, and that's always an example to me, so at one point they're all in brass, second time in chromium, now they're retro and then they're in the old tree. There is something in the Croatian state that we have the same modernism, and that modernism is a collection of data. So one data is collected by one ministry, and the other data is collected by another ministry, so the third ministry decides that it's not what it's going to collect data but it's going to give to someone else, so the State Geodetic Administration is just like that there's a central point that connects the directives to them, and now it's going to be based on exploitation, and there's going to be some other data gathered here. So no one's cool with us collecting data, but let's try it in the same place, let's try to be available to each other, let's try to get it all together because now with this data collection we're going to go to the next crazy, we're going to have all the data that's not going to be networked together and it's not going to be compatible and all the data is actually needed, when? In the spatial planning system to know where is what, who gave a license, who eventually decided something, so it's something we need and something we need to have. And we have very interesting provisions in this law where we have three subjects. You can't go to your colleague Bacic, you gave the line. I'm kidding. We have 3 topics, one subject, these are 40 provisions regarding the issue of building permits under this law, because at one point it was very important for us to say in the Construction Act that, or installation, building permits related to devices and mining facilities are not this building permit, but it's another building permit and see wonders, now in this law from Article 140 to 180, we have provisions that say that the building permit will be based on this law only for these plants. So let's say the provision of article 140 is directly prescribed by the Construction Act. And of those 40 provisions, about 70% is prescribed by the Construction Act, but now we have two types of building permits, one building permit under the construction law and another building permit that will apply to this. And we're coming up with a subject of legalization. I immediately, as I have made clear my position that I think and have spent my whole life working on spatial planning, and I think there should be good conditions, that there are no other than the insanity of procedures in a place that is not to be questioned, there is no need to be explored, there is no need to see what the potentials are. If the Croatian state has potential for hydrocarbons, then we must have that potential if we do not want to use it, but at least know that we have and leave for some other time. Equally when it comes to legalization, I'm one of those who has to regardless, I'm not educated, I'm trained to do something else, but I'm equally concerned about it. If we have the fact that we have the illegal roads, that we have the lawless harbors, that we have the lawless marinas, that we have the lawless floods of the sea, that we have the lawless prayers, that we have the lawless waterways, the sewers, that we have the current exploitation, then let's give the conditions to put it in the system to make it legal and to benefit from it. To me, it's the simplest thing to do, for example. Those molecules at sea, it would be incomparable will to have laws to legalize and give in concessions and a condition to pay compensation. Likewise, when it comes to exploitation today, we have INA MOL, illegally exploiting certain situations. I don't mind saying this by law where it is in accordance with the documents of spatial regulation, and so we say certain conditions, that we give the possibility of legalisation, but I have a little problem, because that's why we're going to increase the value or the question financially where we're going to tell one of the provisions of the law to MOL who has some problems so far that they're going to get a useful license and there's such a problem and there's a need to talk about it, is there some limitations, is that the date of entry into force of this law, is that something else and it needs to be considered and a good think. I must say that I met with it just three, four years ago when it was equally in one other law of interest and we did not legislate it, because it seemed to increase some disproportionateness and relationship between the Croatian state and the INA and between MOL in further elements. And now that I'm not saying it's all about this law, in this law, it's like, look at article 180, so it says it's going to legalize, say, objects that are available on a digital ortho photo map. It's not said when neither one of us, let's say we have a recording of Croatia at 21.6/11, it's all recorded. Why wasn't that one? What am I saying? The law is pretentious, it got into a bunch of details but thus opened up a bunch of problems. I wouldn't want that law to be passed and we know that if there's going to be a majority will, work under that law because it's going to be impossible and it's going to change every once in a while because it's bound to all the other regulations that change every little bit. There's something in the law that's been introduced well, and that's the theme of rehabilitation and the obligation of those who exploit, how to resuscitate the space behind it. Rezim, the first reading was, I also pointed out to the Committee on Lawwork the provisions of certain articles, and I also think that in this discussion I made quite clear what my people are about, this law requires a serious revision to be a law that we can implement, which can benefit us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67956	Thank you. We have a replica of Honorable Agent Ivan Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67957	Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministry representatives, honourable representative Taritas. You mentioned in your presentation of tourism, of course, the observation that Croatia cannot live on tourism alone, that it must also focus on other types of economy. Tourism as a strategic economic branch, it has had a financial effect or traffic, this year 11 billion euros, but we know well that good economic operators that make good profits, work well, have only 10% profit, so how much profit from tourism. And I'm interested in your observation, your opinion on how much damage it has done or done to stop the project of Adria for Croatia and now the latest idea heard here in the Croatian Parliament and from eco associations, stop the project to build LNG terminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67958	The answer of the esteemed representative, Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67959	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So, when it comes to that, it should all be looked at in context. One context was 20 years ago the other was 10 years ago and the other would be for the next 10. And something that might have been realistic to do 20 years ago in these conditions today is no longer possible because the world has changed, technologies have changed. I in principle, absolutely, in the option when someone is against, that would be against, and that behind it does not stand any argument, I am very careful, because being against, to be against, is simply a bright stage to be upon you. Now it's the story of the LNG terminal and it's about LNG at sea and LNG on land. I'm not, I don't know until the end of the environmental impact assessment elements, so all I'd say is absolutely, not sufficiently professionally justified. But, in principle, I believe that it is incomparable to be on land rather than at sea. For the simple reason that both haiaria and everything else are in a different way. And if we're going, I think it should be on land. I'm very careful and if she says, it's a ship so she'll commit, I'm very careful with that. But everything needs to be looked at in the context of new events, new situations and new stories. The same is true when it comes to the exploration of hydrocarbons, i.e. at sea, it was a big and fierce debate, because then the position and opposition was different. I'm a sailboat. We're the Adriatic people. We've really eaten everything. What we have today and those platforms that are down by Long Island and there, you find it interesting to come to that and it doesn't bother you at all. It would bother you if it were different. But that in the Adriatic, too, won't be a problem, because it's a deep sea. So, we, I agree that in some situations we should blow to the cold, but blow at everything, then you have nothing, and then we'll have a cold situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67960	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which a respected representative, Darko Horvat, will speak. After that, we'll take a break by 15.00 and then we'll do the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67961	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is very interesting to listen to this debate, perhaps to me alone, because I am following this area, but not so long ago, and I agree, almost the same people who have worked on some ministries, have publicly dared to say in front of the camera, in Croatian legislation, to solve issues and especially complicated problems, and the problem which is being handled and solved by this legal solution is a very complicated and difficult problem. We can't solve the proposals that lawyers call a lex specialist. We'll remember a prominent character, who then wanted to start strategic investments in the Republic of Croatia, then I said, say and repeat today, that lex specialis and the law that will solve the problems of strategic investments in the Republic of Croatia, so the law that goes against other laws will not in practice bring any positive solution, so on our overall regret, neither this lex specialis or the basis of that law, has any investment in the Republic of Croatia, 2018. So, 7 years with the law that should have brought prosperity, we are struggling to launch a single investment. We didn't make it. And what makes me particularly happy at the beginning of this exposure, that the Ministry of Environment and Energy, I would say dared to wish and then to fight, that this law was passed in a regular procedure. So, we're not going to emergency procedure, we're going to first reading. We'll take after that time, any anomalies we can repair. There's a second reading, an opportunity to fix some more things with amendments, and then the law goes into effect. Now, today the same very interesting sentence is said here, finally after 2 years someone dared say, except me, there is a Croatian energy strategy, we just don't implement it. I am pleased, there is no colleague Panenic here now, I would commend him for his courage, that after 2 years and he claims that Croatia has an energy strategy that this High House in 2009 almost unanimously, so there was no one representative in the Assembly, which is why it was not adopted unanimously and entrusted to someone to work on this strategic document. But I will return to the subject and the subject of this legal solution. So, we in the Republic of Croatia today have I would say a legislative framework and three different laws that are intruding into the subject of solving the same problem. Therefore, since 22 July 2013, the Hydrocarbon Research and Exploitation Act has been in force, and since 17 July 2015, we have the Safety Act on Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation. And I'd say the key to the whole story is 18.5th of the same year in 2013, when the Mining Act came into force and let's not forget another legal solution by the Ministry of Finance's authority, it's called the concession law. So, in the opinion of these four legal frameworks and the bickering of four different ministries, four different responsible persons, we have come to the conclusion that this problem has become difficult, demanding and unimplementable in action. And then comes the idea that I warmly welcome, that from these three legislative proposals of a certain authority and verticals from the idea to the conclusion of a contract puts it in the care of one ministry and one responsible person. So, after this legal solution, there is no more justification for why a public tender cannot be called, why it is not possible to access the research, why no decision on exploitation can happen and why someone interferes with the final stage of the contract, where the contract itself will be a predetermined story that will eventually be discussed with future investors. And now that we look at what the current legislative framework is about, then we will see that the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons is working on and it has arranged research and exploitation, management, issuing permits and determining the fees for exploitation. Many other segments are subject to the ingenuity of each other's laws, and they are related to the Mining Act. The Security Act also regulates the application of regulations in the prevention and handling of major accidents related to the performance of certain research and exploitation works in the field of hydrocarbon exploitation. And after all those key things are arranged by the Mining Act. I'm not going to read here from promemory exactly what it's about, but that same law I'd say almost the same way it edits the story about mineral raw materials and about hydrocarbons. Perhaps it could be a Croatian solution as there are many such Croatian solutions, not accepting how it works or how world-renowned companies, or countries that today have large amounts of hydrocarbon reserves investigated and verified in their portfolio, but at this point do not use them with their strategic decision but continue to hold them as reserves. So we are forced on the one hand, but on the other hand we have decided to respect the European legislative framework and the segments of the European legislative framework to introduce ourselves into Croatian national legislation. So in addition to the key things that are the subject of this law, and I have said by unifying the methodology from ideas to negotiations under one vertical and under one house we are in fact in line with this legislative regulation with Directive 31 of 2009, Directive 60 of the 2000 and Directive 30 of 2013 where the European Commission has very clearly laid down how this should be done in EU countries. And now that you analyse little of these three legal frameworks and solutions, then you see that in these three legal solutions, the existence of a problem of double or overlapping competence is evident, and the legislative framework in question does not follow all that is followed by other countries that are currently members of the EU and apply, or in their national legislation, the transposed provisions of the European Directives. Furthermore, this law clearly and unequivocally prescribes that the basic act of planning which determines the management of hydrocarbons and geothermal waters by storing natural gas and the permanent disposal of carbon dioxide, the planning of an oil-mining economy, is a state-level activity that must be harmonised and implemented by means of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which, as well as this new one, has brought or will be adopted by the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the positive regulations governing the energy area. In addition, this law or this legislative framework clearly and unequivocally obliges local self-government units and units of regional and regional self-government to coordinate their development plans and planning acts with the objectives of the Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, the Framework Plan and the Coal Exploitation Research Programme on the mainland and the Framework Plan and the Programme for the Research of Hydrocarbon Exploitation in the Adriatic. So only us in the Republic of Croatia is a problem a colleague of Mrak-Taritash spoke of earlier. The spatial planning strategy adopted unanimously, the programme of implementation of the strategic document unanimously adopted, the spatial plans of the units of the regional self-government in line with the strategy and the implementation plan, the spatial plans of the units of local self-government in line with the spatial plans of units of the regional self-government and then happens after the investor comes to the stage of the construction permit of environmental impact study which stops the investment. Well, now I'm asking all of us and not just the officials of the government of the Republic of Croatia but also us sitting here today or not sitting here in Parliament today what kind of legal certainty is someone who has to invest up to 25% of the investment without knowing whether or not they'll ever get a building permit. I would like one more thing, I would like all of us to get some strength together and find the same legislative framework that we have today in the Republic of Croatia, including Slovenia, Italy, Austria, Germany or any other which was similar to ours and all of our national legislations are in line with the guidelines or directives of the European Union. Well, gentlemen, it has been said here that so far we don't know a hundred times we've changed that Penal Code. And not only the Penal Code, but also other laws. There are countries in the European Union that have their national legislation harmonised with European Union legislation and do not change their laws 16 or 20 times over the year. And the system or sectoral policies that are happening in these legislative frameworks are being implemented and functioning well. And why don't we just send a dozen people to education in these countries and pass on these good experiences here to Croatia but rather change every law a few times a year and that's why we have to be here in the Croatian Parliament for 216 days, and Parliamentarians in the German Bundestag four times a week. Because we're changing our legislation to change it, and some others are doing it because they're setting it up and turning it into a viable one. What is the integral task of this legislative framework? I fully agree with what has been said so far, and it is about the law being extensive, that it will be difficult to implement it that it will have to come to inter-resorship cooperation for a simple reason because things on the ground are far more complex than we experience here in the Croatian Parliament. But what is the fact that finally within one legislative framework, I will dare say from a needle to a locomotive within a single law in the authority's power to call it that, no matter how much commission or commission will have to form within that body to make final decisions. And now that we are going to list what is good in this legislative proposal, it is also good that finally and geothermal energy, geothermal waters that would be or will one day start to be used as a source of heat that can then be transformed into other forms of energy, are treated as energy or be in the segment of this legislative framework. Including perhaps future underground storage of natural gas and warehouses within which one day we will finally hope, begin to provide and store excessive CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. All of us who have read this legal framework I am sure that we have clearly counted those regulations that the legislator, and I hope that we will all raise our hands for this, enter into this legislative framework. And what I must finally say, therefore, this legal or legal solution does not require any additional involvement of the state budget. And I will welcome once again the request and intention of the legislator to address this issue in the regular parliamentary procedure and the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support such a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67962	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67963	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Horvat, it is true that there is a strategy for energy development but it is also true that this law is excessive and questionable, and that is where we need to agree. It is simply to be arranged and decent in addition to the new electoral law to edit public administration, edit space, and finally to count the final number of inhabitants living in the Republic of Croatia. I hope you will agree that we need a new strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, which will include stable economic development and sustainable development and of course unsustainable social aspects. This new strategy should, I hope you agree and that's my question, do you agree that this strategy should seek energy independence fully because we have potential in this direction? The strategy would involve a national oil company and not give it the opportunity to be or not, but to imply it. This strategy should prevent the illegal exploitation of hydrocarbons, so I also consider this law. Do you share this opinion with me and do you need to go in that direction? Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67964	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67965	Dear counterpart Orepic, so I can repeat myself 4, 5 and 7 times, I am advocacy of the fact that Croatia currently has a strategic document. I am also an advocate of the fact that, in the energy segment, given the development of technology, a strategic document written in ten years, at least twice in the time of its application, has to be audited. I was a loud advocate of it and today I am. And the new strategy we're going to get in 2019, I'm going to think about it and think about it exactly the same. The fact that Croatia has the potential to slowly draw closer to energy independence in this you are absolutely right and here we share opinions and thinking and we will not compromise on that sentence at all. But that fact, or that fact should be without any discussion, the subject of the opinion and thinking of every parliamentary representative, every official of the Croatian Government and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And that's where I hope we're compatible with that whole story. The only thing that differs is the methodology of how to reach that goal in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67966	Thank you very much. Now we'll stop by three o'clock, or 15 o'clock, when we'll continue with the next club, and that'll be the Club of Representatives of the HNS. It's 2:15 a.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67967	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The last on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club is counterpart Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67968	Thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State with an associate. The HNS Club will support this bill, and I will state the reasons that we consider to be one of the most important. First of all, this Law abolishes the overlap between the two ministries, primarily the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Ministry of Economy. Also aligning with European Union directives which have not been introduced into the previous law. This Law on the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation allows for a unique process and procedure from public competition, from an investigative space through the discovery of the findings of the evaluation phase to the identification of the exploitation field, the production of hydrocarbons, and finally, after the completion and recovery of the research field itself. This law also enables better control of oil and gas reserves and reduction of administrative barriers, as well as the promotion of new investments in the hydrocarbon exploitation segment. But what is especially for certain areas, especially the Pannonian part, and these are also geothermal sources. What this law also allows means, after its adoption, there is the possibility of opening new competitions, which primarily depends on energy policy in particular in Croatia. I also mentioned the importance of geothermal sources so far and Croatia has a great potential according to certain data and research, which is a whole new segment of clean, renewable and stable energy. The implementation of this law will also allow for the promotion of new investments, especially in the segment of the exploration of exploitation and hydrocarbons, as well as geothermal waters. In addition to all of this and during the debate, there were certain dilemmas whether this law would mean when it comes into force whether or not it will be drawn some profit that the Republic of Croatia should get from it certainly for, certainly, although it depends solely on the contracts itself. However, this law gives a far better quality legal framework. What is also visible from this law that the Republic of Croatia will especially in the segment means that the topic of energy policy is one major part with a clearer picture of the state of the oil industry in the Republic of Croatia, and also has more quality assumptions as regards our largest oil company INA as well. The question has also been raised and certain dilemmas as to how much this proposal provides certain protection and as regards some possible negative experiences from the past, or the dilemma of certain representatives and advocates on the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. This law is very detailed in terms of the conditions that the bidder must meet in public competition. This took care of all segments that were key, from legal, financial, technical on implementation. It must also meet certain conditions in the field of protection of primarily health, safety and protection as regards the conservation of the environment itself. These changes, although there have been many articles and there have been criticism that, if the law were too far-fetched, it may be too much, but we believe that and we believe that the ministry's own proposing that they are precisely because of this reason to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia and everything that this law wishes might have made it so much and so many articles and that it would practically not have happened if certain segments had failed. Here's a quick one, the HNS Club will support these changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67969	Thank you. We don't have a replica, so we're going to continue with an individual discussion. Since the Bull's representative is gone, he's continuing his colleague, Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67970	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about this Law on the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia, we must be aware that this law was passed a few years ago, it seems to me that in 2012 and 2013, we changed it, that based on it we tried to do something that says that Croatia must manage its natural resources more effectively and that on this side we allow the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation in such a way that what has not been done in Croatia is investigated and that we ultimately try through certain concessions and rents to try to help from that wealth that lies beneath our soil we have as much as possible. What I would point out here, and it is impossible to discuss within this debate is the behaviour that we now have with our company INA, which is the concessionary in most of the cases of hydrocarbon exploitation, and the question is why the Government is not doing what we should do, and that is to try to use this tool in order for INU or its current owners, who are mostly managing the company, to make themselves different to the Republic of Croatia, according to the production in the Republic of Croatia, according to the modernisation of the refineries in Sisak and Rijeka, but to let them have fewer concessions than for example that MOL in the Republic of Hungary, and they do nothing but simply try to use the Croatian company as a wholesale chain of their oil derivatives that are processed in refineries in Slovakia and Italy. So on that side, I'd like our government to use the elements it has in its hands and try to push the MOL in a situation that doesn't work on us in the INI. And another thing that I think might be possible by law, which is the question that from the concession, that is, the fee Croatia chooses not only to end 50% in local self-government units but rather to be more. There is no reason for the state to collect that particular money, and in some ways the cost, the damage, the lack of quality of life, the destruction of roads, etc. The municipalities, cities and counties that are being exploited for example by hydrocarbon exploitation are suffering. I also strongly support the initiative of 42 units of local self-government in Vukovar-Srijemska, Bjelovarko-Biogorje and Koprivnica-Kristva County, which insist that the current distribution of concessions from hydrocarbons amounting to, I said 80% does not share, in principle, 30% of municipalities and cities 20% of the county, 50% of the state, but that I would say the entire amount of all 100%, or this 10% of the raw material that is being drawn to remain units of local self-government. So we need to allow investors to exploit, explore our territory or the submarine in the Republic of Croatia, to make it possible for the quality of the distribution of that money, or what they are paying, and I think that the price of the concession standing at this amount that I just spoke of is too low. As regards compliance with EU directives, we have had some problems here and, of course, that we should respect EU legislation, but what I do not think at this time we do not have, which is that we make the most of our country, for our people, this rich that is being drawn up and that some others are making much better use of than what the Republic of Croatia is taking advantage of, and I said much better there are companies from Italy that have concessions with us in the gas and oil and MOL and, respectively, Ina that does so on most of the Republic of Croatia and really is asking why the Government is not responding? I have warned of this before, and it was not clear to me why we are a little harder not to ask, Mr. Vrdoljak, who was responsible for this area, did not offer some very logical explanations, but I will continue to ask these questions no matter what my colleague was in government at the time, and now he is a colleague of Mr. Bačić's. So on the other hand, I think in a position, so on that side, but even though we now have a situation where the Ministry of Energy and the Environment is responsible for it, that is, indirect and vice president Martina Dalic, who is in a very awkward position, given that the husband is directly an employee of MOL, i.e. Ine and de facto, depends in some way on how the company will be managed by the majority owner, which is the Hungarian oil industry MOL. So, here, in that part, I would be happy if we could just make more sense of it all together to get more efficient than it has ever been and use those resources to protect and direct national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67971	Thank you very much, Agent Maras. There's a replica of her colleague, Dark Taritash, on his display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67972	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you spoke here about the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. We all know how long it's been. We have a feeling that after there's a study that of the opportunity will exploit it will be next month. And we all know that's not the case, that it takes years to explore, and that doesn't mean that what's being explored will result in exploitation. Both this law and the entire story of hydrocarbons should be seen in this context. There are also countries that have explored, and then they conclude that they will do nothing further than save it for some other time or other occasion. Croatia has some benefits in terms of geology and has some difficult circumstances. So that there are hydrocarbons in the Adriatic that are already some indicators they have. However, an absolute other way and methodology is technical if it is in the shallow sea or in the deep sea. So this whole law and the whole hydrocarbon story should be looked at in that context. Research and I think we should explore and see what they are, what the potential is and everything else from research to exploitation is going to be a long way, and I'm sure there will be at least some other or similar composition in this House and some other amendment or addition of the law because this law is probably not going to end up being an end to exploitation. But everything needs to be predicted, and everything needs to be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67973	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67974	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Mrak-Taritash, you are absolutely right about the road and about the passage of time, but I wish we didn't make any mistakes we've made in the past, which is that some of them have more benefits than our wealth. It may have been logical sometimes when INA was fully owned by the Republic of Croatia, but now I feel bad when I see that these fees that are relatively low are used by some other companies from other countries than those used by Croatia or local self-government units. Every time something around my heart squeezes me when I go to Podravina and I see there how they... these roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I ask the captains, so why don't you fix the roads or invest something? They say we don't have any money. And this change that we get from this fee and concession is not enough for anything. Which is why we wouldn't give all 10% to local self-government units. What's he gonna do, so the HDZ says it's full of budgets, there's no deficits, everything's great. Maybe we should ask where the money is. So give the money to the local self-government units, then give it to me. So give money to local self-government units to patch up those roads. There go various machines, etc., destroying themselves. Give me the money. And as for VAT, and it was in the first year, it's already going down one percent, so nothing at the end. Oh, no? So amazingly, even for a moment I believed Plenkovic when I listened when he said here's what our experts have already done, first year it goes one percent down. He almost convinced me of that truth, too, but we can see that it won't end up being anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67975	Thank you very much, Agent Maras. The colleagues of Branimir Bunjca are gone, so the last individual debate is from counterpart Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67976	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I wanted to report to the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, since I believe that until the second reading we could make some adjustments in terms of this law in the first order in order to comply with the other laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament. In that sense, first of all, I think of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, because I believe that this text is not in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning. In 1994, an institute of location permits was introduced into the Croatian legal system and into the spatial planning system in the Republic of Croatia as one procedure that has since been introduced into national legislation in particular and in particular into the spatial regulation of all laws, sectoral laws in which it was necessary to adopt approvals, permits and any other acts have always been codified and agreed with the process of issuing a local authorisation. I must say that I have been carefully reading this part of the law in which, in my opinion, it is necessary to establish this one, this contact between the research licenses, the exploitation permits, the building permits and, on the one hand, the basic location permit. I have not been able to read at which point according to this law is he who calls the tender or who is a concessionaire obliged to obtain a locational permit or rather it seems to me that according to this law a local authorisation comes at the moment when a permit is given to build a plant for the exploitation of hydrocarbons which is not good for me. So, I've said this many times before that the great handicrafts that have happened in the world, especially the largest in the Gulf of Mexico, have happened on an investigative platform, not on an exploitation platform. Therefore, I think it would be necessary and it would be good if this law contained that, at the time of the opening of the tender, after a concessionary has been established, after the concessionaire goes into an investigative well, given that the investigation drill is often contained and searched for the same platform, the same facility that is located on the surface as often used and exploiting facility. He's supposed to have a location permit right now. Therefore, it seems to me to be something that should be taken into account and better explained in this law, and in my view it should be in line with the Law on Spatial Planning and in a way that this first permit to be issued for an investigative well, the research should already have a local permit. Another thing that also seems important. We've brought before it seems to me in December the Law on the Strategic Planning System. This law provides for the adoption of a strategy in the Republic of Croatia, and the Energy Development Strategy is also waiting for us. While we bring a new strategy without saying until a mineral management strategy is adopted in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to start a new research and exploitation to create a framework programme. The framework programme under this law is scheduled to be adopted by the minister. If we pull the parallel, and we have to pull the parallel with the Strategic Planning Act, it's the programme, the framework programme is within the meaning of this law a national programme. Therefore, a national programme such as the Framework Programme for Hydrocarbon Research and Exploitation can and must be passed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the law in the Republic of Croatia, not by the Minister of Resoluteness. Therefore, it would be good for Article 5 of this Act to address, among other things, these numerous issues that were in the debate today, which is whether we are going to go to what part of the Adriatic, for example, to explore and exploit hydrocarbons, because of the necessity of adopting such an act, which then passes through the Ministry of Resorbs, to bring the Government and not the Minister of Resort. So not only is this a need, which is wise and smart to be brought by the Government, but, on the other hand, this obligation stemming from the Law on the System or the Law on the System of Strategic Planning and Development Management of the Republic of Croatia, where national plans, national programmes such as this Framework Programme are exclusively adopted at the level of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the third thing I think is that it's good to think about here, is that we have defined at the level of the Republic of Croatia a state spatial development plan. This state spatial development plan will replace the existing Croatian Spatial Arrangements Programme adopted in 1999, in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning. However, after the subsequent amendments to the Law on Spatial Planning, we introduced the need to draw up two more plans, and this is the State Plan for the Protected Environmental Fishing Belt and for the Epicontinental Belt, which means that when the State's Spatial Development Plan comes into force, we will not have arranged planning and handling in Croatia in the Epicontinental Belt or in the ZERP, which is why we planned to bring these two plans under the law into place in 2021. So for two years in the Republic of Croatia, we will have a large part of the Adriatic Sea belonging to the Republic of Croatia or where the Republic of Croatia is exercising its sovereign rights will not be covered by any strategic, planned, spatial document. How at that point, how at that point will we go into possibly exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons I don't know or will not be able to do, and that's not a small period. This is a period of 2 years, so I now strongly recommend that the ministry think about it because in case the State Plan of Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia is adopted, and after that, it is only two years that the same plan for the protected ecological fishing zone and for the epicontinental belt in which the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons is carried out, we will not be able to implement this law, nor will we be able to adopt a framework programme, plan and programme for the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation. So, these three, for me, very important and key things based on which the process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons can be implemented in general, needs to be resolved, but above all, with the protection of space-planned documents, spatial planners, with the protection of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, I hold that it is impossible to go into the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation, I have talked about it many times, and that, as a premise to the investigational well, especially at sea, where this process is the most complex, most demanding process in the world of industry at all, is the extraction of hydrocarbons at depths below 500 and 600 meters, and that was foreseen at certain locations in the Adriatic, that this project is going on without respecting the strictest conditions that are defined by the strategic impact assessment of the environment, which were then prescribed in the location permit and in all of what follows me. I therefore propose that the Ministry shall until the next one and the Government shall until the next reading make sure that the location permit is valid at the moment when it starts to explore hydrocarbons at all, not post-festum when research is carried out and only when it starts to issue the exploitation permit requires a location permit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67977	I'd like to thank Agent Bačić. We've got a line on his exposure from our colleague, Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67978	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you have established in your presentation a link between this Act and the Law on Spatial Planning. So, the Construction Act we left aside and the Construction Act has building permits based on the Law relating to this, and here are one 40 provisions that speak of building permits. I have to show the satisfaction that you already said at the beginning that until the second reading to establish a link of the location permit. The link between location permits and research is, in fact, in this way and connection and spatial planning and spatial planning with research, and I appreciate that this is one effort that can be made. And in that case, all those discrepancies that I was talking about, the discrepancies with the Environmental Protection Act, and others, they're more immaterial if that relationship is established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67979	Thank you. A reply to Bacic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67980	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues of Mrak-Taritash, I agree with you, so in this Law, which is really trying to be the lex specialis as much as it is successful we will see in the second reading. A series of provisions have been established that are practically prescribed and comply with the Construction Act and when it comes to the project, and when it comes to the auditor, and the designer, and when it comes to all those provisions which define and comply with the Construction Act. So that's the law I'd almost say in a large part of the bill on construction. But I would like that if they had already decided to define with such a law the actions in researching the exploitation of hydrocarbons that more relyed on the Law on spatial regulation which was not the case here. So here relyed a lot on the Law on Construction, not so much on the Law on Spatial Planning, which would be good, I said for what reasons to take care of it. I, if you remember well, was myself, and I think that you were the author of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Spatial Planning, then I half-limed with you, when I was saying that it would be good for Croatia to take the same one document, and that is the State Plan for the Spatial Development of the Republic of Croatia, I think, you prepared it only here in the Assembly, and that was your work, but now it is not important, this law is in large part good except in what I was saying then, and I also gave it to Kuštević, etc., and it was necessary to establish a spatial plan document for the whole of Croatia, both for the mainland, so for the territorial seas of ZERP, so for the epicontinental memo. Because we will be in a position to bring a spatial plan for 77% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and only then in two years an epicontinental belt and a ZERP. What we're going to do in the epicontinental belt and the ZERP by then I really don't know now I'm saying it should be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67981	Thank Mr. Bačić and the reply to the replica. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr Ivo Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67982	...the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I thank you for the debates about this law, and we will listen carefully and look at the stenogram and everything we think and it will be necessary to install it into the law until the second reading. There are a few things we need to read here, and a few sentences about it are being discussed. In fact, on the subject of illegally built buildings, or legalization, the thesis of legalizing something to MOL through this law was being legalized. We don't think it's even an idea that's true. In fact, we have, in accordance with what Mrs. Honorable Representative Dark Taritash said, absolutely, that if everything is legalized by certain legal rules, so that in this part of it, there are potentially some illegal things that are legalized by our knowledge that aren't much. In fact, it's probably some parts of these devices and very often it's about useful permits that weren't made in time, and in the end it's not all going to be MOL, but it's going to be Ini among other things as the biggest user in which the note of the Republic of Croatia continues to be 44% owner and that's the Croatian company. As far as the State Property Management Act is concerned, we wrote in that article that this also applies to those other possible authorities that will be competent but we accept that we will work out that in the process another law is in order not to make it possible for the second reading to be absolutely harmonised. As regards the compensation regulation for obtaining the amount of hydrocarbons that has been mentioned in the debate several times and by several MPs, the fact that these procedures that exist today are 50% for the state budget, 50% and 25 for regional and local self-government in potential hydrocarbon-based contracts under this law will certainly be more reputable for local self-government, given that there is now a percentage of what is going on in the state budget, i.e. in the local and state budget, because it is a very different way of participating the state in all of this. As far as these remarks are concerned, what Mr. Honorable Representative Branko Bačić said about the spatial plan as far as we have in communication with the spatial arrangement had the opportunity to understand and negotiate with them, there is no lifting of the location permit for the research wells because it does not make sense that it does not have a location permit because it is a serious object that works in space and must have a document why it is there. According to our knowledge, the location permit for the exploitation field is abolished because it is too wide, but clearly we accept the suggestion that, in further meetings with the Ministry of Spatial Planning, we can develop all possible scenarios especially this part of the ZERP's epicontinental belt that in communication with colleagues from the spatial arrangement, we can possibly install some sort of fuse into the law so that this interegnem doesn't happen. It is clear that this law expects much of the spatial plan of the Republic of Croatia, which will soon be brought to address all these situations around the investigative space and exploitation fields. That's how much of us at the Ministry thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67983	Thank you very much. We have a replica at the State Secretary's office. Here's a colleague of Tomislav Jagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67984	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr Miletic, my replica is just going in this direction when you say you've answered a lot of counsel's questions about the hydrocarbon exploitation fee. In fact, the State Audit report also warned that the 10% fee is too low and it is said that I am not reading everything here, that other countries in the environment have made this fee much higher, so there is so Italy has prescribed a fee 7% for adding oil value and 10% for the values of gas acquired. Greece has set a compensation for the production of hydrocarbons depending on the quantities between 2% and 20%. While setting a profit tax for the activity of hydrocarbon exploitation at 25%, Montenegro set a rate of 2% for gas and between 5% and 12% for oil, etc. You're saying that now this fee is going to be a lot more generous there's that PSA contract, can you just briefly comment on how you plan it when we talk about percentages? Have you accepted the recommendations and the results of the audit that warns that this fee is too low for the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67985	The reply to the State Secretary's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67986	Your Honor, the European average is 9.6. It means that the 10% Croatia has an existing contract we're talking about old contracts that we've inherited since Ina and the former state is also in these percentages. As for new contracts already under way under the existing hydrocarbon law, it is more than 10% as regards percentages. So absolutely our proposal for a new regulation that will come out of this law will be in the direction that this percentage is greater and more betrayed. And it is logical that the process itself of charging all fees and ways of dividing production will quantifyly and with the same percentage cause higher revenues for local self-government and state budgets. But it is clear that the idea of us as the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to be even more generous in terms of the topics that were also here in this House, and which I absolutely understand, given that in three terms I was the head of a single unit of local self-government and I know well how much gold is worth to local self-government since it is usually not always enough funds in these same self-governments. So in that direction, the ministry will seek to increase that. The only reason why in the past when there was a bill by the law seems to me that the HSS Club did not adopt this particular request because the existing obligations we have signed simply prevent us from doing so and we would cause more damage in terms of some possible arbitration in the Republic of Croatia than that would objectively benefit local self-government units. Not because we didn't want to, we just couldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67987	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for the reply to the replica. We have also concluded the debate on the proposal for a law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67988	Proposal for a law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 258. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. It will adopt the proposal for a law on hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. 1. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 36 abstentions and 4 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67989	We now move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Nature Protection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 171. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr. Mile Horvatt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67990	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act. The first most significant reason for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Nature Protection Act concerns the need for further harmonisation with the provisions of the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. Since the Republic of Croatia is currently in breach of the right that the European Commission has initiated due to incomplete transfer. For both directives, the Republic of Croatia received a reasoned opinion in April 2017, which means that we are in the pre-trial phase before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg. Therefore, the adoption of this law will have a significant impact on further steps of the European Commission and it is realistic to expect that after the adoption of this law and the implementation of these two directives, there will be no appeal in the domestic national legislation. Among the amendments and additions associated with further harmonisation with the EU acquis, there are primarily a number of points that I think are important. A different procedure for assessing the acceptability of strategies, plans and programmes for the ecological network, which was prescribed by the draft law so that the previous evaluation process and the main evaluation procedure were clearly separated, which has not been the case so far. As regards the assessment of acceptability and spatial plans for which environmental protection requirements are issued, the European Commission has argued that all spatial plans in the Republic of Croatia are subject to a strategic assessment or assessment of the need for a strategic assessment in accordance with the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, and therefore this way of assessing spatial plans has become obsolete following the adoption of the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act. Therefore, having regard to this proposal for a law on the assessment of spatial plans, it is regulated to comply with the strategic assessment procedure, i.e. the assessment of the strategic impact assessment of strategies, plans and programmes on the environment. The news here is that part of the evaluation procedures carried out so far by the Ministry of Environment and Energy will be carried out by the competent administrative authorities of units of regional, or local self-government. So it's about spatial plans that bring units of regional, or local self-government, which is logical for us. This also carried out the coordination of competences for the implementation of the acceptability assessment procedure with the competences for the strategic impact assessment, strategies, plans and programmes on the environment in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act. With regard to the assessment of the acceptability of plans such as forest-economic plans, hunting-economic bases, the fishing grounds of the procedure are now simpler, as these plans generally do not have a significant negative impact on the objectives of the conservation of the ecological network, and a solution on the acceptability of the ecological network can be made even at the stage of a previous evaluation that generally lasts 30 days from the time of the regulatory request to the issuing of a solution by the competent authority including here and seeking the opinion of the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. Under the current law, the current law of the procedure for issuing conditions of nature protection and prior consent lasts 60 days. So this is where this deadline is halved in half. In addition, the management process of the NATURA 2000 ecological network with clear competences of public institutions, ministries, Croatian forests is different. The forestry sector identified by this proposal as an active operator in certain NATURA areas in 2000. This legislative solution will allow for a better absorption of the funds foreseen by the operational programme competitiveness and cohesion in 2014/20. This appropriation is intended to cover: In this regard, such a legal solution allows for the withdrawal of EU funds and the forestry sector to develop forest-economic plans which are also plans for managing the ecological network. The second reason for amending the law lies in the fact that certain shortcomings that needed to be corrected or identified are new mechanisms that can improve the system of nature protection and, among the most significant, we identify several. Therefore, the need to prescribe conditions for authorising legal persons to perform wild animal recovery operations as well as the conditions for granting authorisation to carry out operations of genetic banks which, in the light of the new technical rules, cannot be prescribed by the Regulation as provided for in the applicable law, but only by a specific law and the powers must be administrative acts, as is the case at present. It is also regulated to remove the problem on the ground related to authorisations for the collection or collection of wild game species for processing or further sale, in particular in relation to the collection of mercy. This proposal requires that any natural or legal person who collects from the nature of the wild must be authorised and the exception is only natural persons who are employees of a legal person and are bound by a contractual relationship. Amendments to the concession approval provisions which have been amended in such a way as to allow public institutions to grant concession approval for the use of speleological facilities. In view of the fact that the award procedure for these purposes has been over-requested and has never been implemented in practice in spite of the existence of interest. Finally, for the purpose of implementing the allocation of funds to international parks and nature parks, a new Article 204.b has been added that public institutions which are required to pay to the national parks and parks of nature in the state budget 3% of the revenues obtained from each ticket and vignette as well as part of the revenue costs of the previous financial year, up to a maximum of 10% for which the purpose is not predetermined. It is important here to say that the funds invested in the state budget will be used to finance priority activities of public institutions managing national parks and nature parks, which are necessary for the purpose of protecting and preserving areas managed or for the purpose of improving public institutions' operations, as well as the settlement of expenditure on joint functions, support for national parks and nature parks in legal affairs, public procurement, promotion, marketing, preparation and implementation of projects and the education and development of the nature protection information system. The proposal for the allocation of these funds and the proposal for the allocation of funds within a particular activity prepares a committee set up by the Minister while the way and dynamics of the payment of funds to the state budget, the way in which the percentage of the amount of revenue achieved in the current year for which the purpose is not predetermined and which public institutions for the management of national parks are required to pay in the national budget at the annual level, the way in which the allocation of funds for the implementation of the activities, the composition and the way in which the Commission works, the way in which the public is informed and other issues are related, will be regulated by the Government. Finally, the third very important reason for the adoption of this law stems from the fact that, at the same time, in the procedure of the proposal for a Law on the prevention of the introduction and spread of foreign and invasive species and the management of them, which will fully address the problem of banning the introduction of foreign invasive species. In this respect, the current Nature Protection Act deletes the provisions of the introduction into nature, cultivation and the situation on the market of foreign species because they are covered by the new law mentioned above. It is extremely important to ensure the adoption and entry into force of both laws at the same time in order to avoid the possible overlap of legal provisions, on the other hand, the absence of a legislative framework governing the mentioned matter. The implementation of this law shall be ensured in the framework of the regular activities of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and other institutions in the nature protection system financed from the state budget and shall not be subject to additional funding in the Republic of Croatia's budget. From the first reading to the present day, comments have been received on the first proposed text of amendments to this law which are mostly of a new technical nature by the Legislative Committee, and at the same time what is important to say that an amendment has been submitted today on the home nature protection committee, which is also of a new technical nature and which is fully acceptable to us. In view of the importance of this law, because of the possibility of being the subject of a pilot, i.e. to be retired because of the lack of compliance with certain provisions of the EU directive, we propose that you accept this final proposal and pass the law on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67991	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr Horvat, at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. We have two replicas on his display, the first replica is from a colleague of Zekanovic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67992	Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. The Act on Nature Protection, given that it is Croatia, a very important law, since we have hundreds of protected natural areas, let us not always be limited to these 8 national parks and 11 nature parks if I am not mistaken, but Croatia knows by the Nature Protection Act seven more categories of protected natural areas, literally hundreds of areas protected under this law. I would immediately warn the Secretary of State of State of one thing through this replica, and Article 65, respectively, of Article 130, where it is said that protected natural areas located near or directly at national parks or parks of nature can be managed by a public institution that manages the national park and nature park. In this law, I don't see what it is directly, which is very close, and on the other hand here we have one collapsing, we have one conflict of interest between county public institutions and institutions founded by a state or an institution that manages national parks or parks of nature. I think this will be controversial in many places, especially here I will talk about the Sibenik-Knin County where we have a whole series of very valuable protected natural areas that are the backbone of the work of the county labour institution, and with this Article of the law it can be disabled and it can still be said. So who's going to decide whether to do it or not is the director of the national park, the board of directors, the ministry or whoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67993	Thank you. The next replica is a replica from counterpart Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67994	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Horvat. So I'm interested in making new laws now, but I'm curious about why we don't do the old ones. In particular, when we talk about Plitvice National Park, there is a wild apartmentization that has endangered the very existence of the national park itself, and it could have been prevented by the old law, so we do not need this new law that you are proposing now. In particular, provisions of the Water Act were to be applied, so there was no need to issue a valid permit before the owners of the apartment resolved the issue of wastewater disposal. At this point, they are released directly into the ground or worse in the water of Plitvice Lakes, which has recently shown the analyses that have been made in several places in this crash, and you have, by implementing the Water Act, specifically in Article 67 as a ministry, had tools in your hands to simply stop such useful permits, or to impose fines that are worth 30 to 300 thousand kuna under this law. So it's primarily the responsibility of the local administration, but if the local administration doesn't react then the ministry needs to react. So I'm curious about the purpose of the new laws if even the old ones that exist don't function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67995	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? My colleague Jelkovac doesn't have any. A colleague of Zmajlović's? Nothing. I am opening a debate on the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act. First registered also on behalf of the HDZ club representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67996	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear secretary of state with an associate. The HDZ Representatives' Club will support the amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act as proposed by the Government for the reasons why we practically align it with the directives as regards the directive governing habitats as well as the birds' conservation directive. In fact, this law was passed in 2013, and already these directives were in force, so we were able to put these directives into national legislation, but this was not done so that we can now and certainly want to accept the fact that the law is in line with both directives. The second reason, as the Secretary of State said, refers to the fact that after this law, we will discuss the Law on the Prevention of the Introduction and Expansion of Foreign and Invasive Foreign Species and their Management in a Special Law, and then there must be a clear need to delete certain provisions relating to this Act under the Nature Protection Act. And the third reason is the fact that the implementation of this law on the past four years has defined certain ambiguities that must be corrected by this law, in particular in the section relating to the amendment of the provisions on the granting of concession approval in such a way as to allow public institutions to grant concession authorisation for infringement of the speleological facilities. One reason also refers to the fact that already earlier, the Government has put two independent institutions, the Environment Protection Agency and the State Nature Protection Agency into a single agency, or the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, by means of a regulation, so that we have now consumed this law and that part, if so, the word that the Government has already amended by its regulation in a way that has brought these two institutions together into a state agency. What may also be important here to mention is the fact that this law now makes it more clear that the process of determining and implementing the previous impact assessment procedure on the ecological network, as well as the main assessments of the impact on the ecological network and the clearer and quality of the way in which one and the other procedures are implemented, especially when strategies, plans, programmes that are being touched and which are practically implemented in the area of the ecological network are approved. In any case, given that the Republic of Croatia is very significantly covered by the NATURA ecological network 2000, there is a greater need for clearer regulation of the procedure itself when it comes to evaluation, previous evaluation and main evaluation of the ecological network, as it touches a very large number of projects, strategies and plans, given that in Croatia, around 36% of the territories are covered by the NATURA ecological network 2000. Therefore, the withdrawal of a significant procedure to be brought before both state authorities and local and regional self-government authorities. Therefore, it is good to make this procedure as clear as possible and as high as possible, that this law should then make this one procedure more clear, which has not been the case so far. For these reasons, we will accept and support this Proposal for a Law on Nature Protection, i.e. the Proposal for Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67997	Thank you very much, fellow Bacic. The next debate on behalf of club GLAS and HSU is from representative Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67998	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act that this distinguished House brought in 2013. It is a comprehensive amendment, i.e. better made to the amendments based on the fact that the European Union Directive has been adopted, but also on pilots who have threatened us as the Secretary of State has said that it has been in a certain way and a threat, but also on the obligation of the Republic of Croatia. There's something that says if about a third of the regulations change that it would be thinking in the sense that there's a new law going on. However, since compliance here is primarily with the directives of some 250 articles and some 110, 112 has been amended. So that's where we are, and since the government's professional services are here, and the Legislative Committee didn't have anything to say in that sense, and in the second reading, it's the second reading that needs to be done. What is important to note is that the processes that are from the aspect of nature protection are in a certain part of the new processes. So we learned how to evaluate environmental impacts. So, it's legislation back in '84, the fifth one started, so it was complemented. However, the processes related to nature protection are certain new processes that were in the beginning when they were in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia for the first time were involved as people are always afraid of something unknown and therefore have some sort of vision and distance as it was in this case. So the assessment of the need for assessment at all, the way it's done, has largely caused confusion and the problem, and so is there I dare say either at one point is up to the profession that deals with spatial planning, and then the profession that deals with environmental protection. Well, then we have a nature-protective profession and, of course, when the investor first found it, it felt like we were sending it out of process to process. However, what is important for projects that are large, which are important, which are well prepared is to think in the direction, that is, in the sense that it can be in one process, so in one procedure it should be done because through this procedure you see all the problems you are facing. I've pointed out a few times from this pay phone that we need to think about in the country we live in. Croatia is according to real indicators, therefore not what measures that you can always say that someone has shown one way or another, but according to satellite flyovers. And roughly built about five and a half, five point six percent, in a way that enters the building and, therefore, the buildings, but they go in and everything that has been changed by human hand except the quarry, or other than the exploitation fields, because the hydrocarbons were the subject, so let's connect it a little bit. By saying about 50% under the forest surfaces, then we have a percentage below the agricultural surfaces. I think and I am sure that these are certain benefits that Croatia should have and in that sense should think about space. And it's also always an idea so you're overprotected, you can't do this or that. It's not like that. This should be approached in a way and be seen from this benefit. Likewise, other EU countries and not to say when you look at both America and Canada, as well as Australia, when it comes to national parks and nature parks, they experience and show it. That's where the economy grows. The economy in certain elements does not grow in the area of these parks, but at the expense of those, because it is one mirror, one image, one good product, and it should also be experienced and thus should be placed and treated accordingly. Here, when you look at the reasoning of this law, then about one four, five pages are listed why it was changed, the directives are listed, pilots are listed, and therefore it is necessary to consider all the time. And in this House, the relationship between the MPs in this House, the Europarliamentaries, of all those who, in a certain way, represent our interests in the EU because they think that we are a member and that very much, we must be very careful about all the things that are being brought there and the directives and all the conditions and ways that we will not be found. What has been amended by this law and the procedures have been clarified, procedures related to nature protection have been clarified, as the secretary of state has said, the relationship between nature parks and national parks. Nature parks and national parks, they really need to be experienced and seen the benefites we have and the message they send, and not as if it's a limiting development. I must say that in one age, I remember far enough, when you wanted any national park at all, when the borders and national parks and nature parks were declared, especially one excellent example for you is always the city of Zagreb and it's always the nature park Medvednica, that everyone tried to make that border in the far line and unnatural, that by chance their real estate would not be within the borders of nature park with the idea that nothing in nature park could be absolutely anything. That's not true, it certainly took part, I know that it's an absolute lie, that it's not, it can be, but under different conditions and in a different way. So also changes in the parks of nature and national parks always came to this Assembly and always caused a heated discussion. Likewise in the city of Zagreb, everyone came to Maksimir sooner or later, regardless of the small or large children. Maksimir is a protected object from the aspect of nature protection and has a body that has a competent body that manages it and I think that model is extremely good. Since today is somehow a day in the light of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, it is always difficult for me to tell energy because I am still convinced that it does not naturally belong there. I'm glad we started environmental protection and showed what it is, and we're finishing another reading of the Nature Protection Act. The GLAS and HSU club supported, we support in the second reading in the first reading, but apparently this law requires a serious revision, and obviously we will get a new Nature Protection Act in this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u67999	Thank you very much to my colleague Mrak-Taritash. The next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club is a debate from counterpart Michael Zmajlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We have before us an amendment or a proposal to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act, which is a relatively new law, as counterpart Mrak-Taritash just spoke. A number of directives, the European directives regulating this area, have been kind of transposed into this law and through several implementations, so from 2013 to 2015, it has been seen that certain provisions are not sufficiently effective and that they should be corrected in particular as regards the competence of individual bodies, and this process itself, the implementation of the procedure, the assessment of the acceptability of procedures on the ecological network, or Natura 2000, was to be corrected. What I can say in principle is that we support the text of these amendments to the law, which is more so than it is dominantly containing a complete text that was drawn up and conducted in a public debate as early as July 2015. So, from 2015 until today, this text has been waiting, so it's sitting in drawers and it's just today on the benches. So, for 2 years, just over 2 years have passed when this law or these changes could have already been implemented, while others have been passed, but in fact this speaks about how the Ministry of Environment and Energy functions now, or these two previous governments, and how harmful it is for both the state itself and the state's leadership. Because here are the previous colleagues and colleagues who said before me, maybe this isn't such a media-attractive law, but we all know how important it is to conduct any investment in this country. So it's very important how these procedures will be prescribed in this law, and when you have two years of changes and supplements in the drawer, then it's just saying it for itself. So today we can be happy that it finally saw the light of day. What actually makes me doubt whether this proposal should really support amendments and additions or not is one provision that has been left out and that is related to the management of protected areas. So these are national parks and nature parks dominantly, it is best known to us. To that end, it has already been established that the way the State manages or manages protected areas is not the most efficient or not effective. To this end, Croatia has also used the Global Environmental Protection Fund's 5m-dollar gift. The project was being prepared from 2012 to 2013 and the project was in fact identified by the biggest shortcomings in the entire system and measures were proposed to improve it. There were several models. So you know that there's been a debate and a debate about whether the agency should not be, whether one institution should be managed by all, etc. What I insisted that such a decision should also be taken in agreement with the institutions but also after carrying out a whole professional basis. This was also done in these proposed amendments in 2015, Article 130 provided that the Republic of Croatia or the Government could establish one institution to manage protected areas. It is in this text, in this proposal left out, there is no such thing. We have one per me, a very, very bad solution. And that's if you noticed that actually a certain percentage of the income, of the tickets in the parks, will be poured into the state budget, then that amount, and that's not a small amount, so it's millions of kuna, managed by some commission appointed by the minister. So the commission will now allocate that money to be collected from the parks. So it's not that it's not more efficient than it is ten times worse than this existing system, and I really don't understand why after the state's spent and income from the gift shop five million dollars and when we're three years old, this country has been preparing for some reform to make this system more effective why it's so easy to give up. And the recent examples show you with Plitvice Lakes National Park and other parks that simply this system is not sustainable and that it does not work, that everyone thinks it's a local or regional political lazy road that uses certain political and financial leverages to keep it at local level, that we do not even have a sewer. I know that part of that mandate is also my responsibility, the sewerage on Plitvice Lakes money was in my term secured from Croatian waters until today it is not settled. Still as a colleague of Bunjac has said, fundamental things have not been resolved, and that is that local plumbing is not managed by a de facto company that, according to the Water Act, would need a national park, a series of violations of regulations, and the result is actually damage to the environment. I therefore believe that we can conclude that this law to improve certain procedures and procedures, more clearly defines the competences of individual bodies, will facilitate implementation. I also welcome the fact that the law sets aside stories about preventing the introduction of foreign and invasive foreign species into a special law, I think it will be better and more effective, but the fact that this law has absolutely no element of reform, I think in this regard management of protected areas, national parks, especially nature parks, that we are going a few steps backwards. And I'm afraid, and I'm pretty sure with this attempt to manage, let's say it to the protected areas of the lower category, that it's going to move to these institutions that are now inefficient that we're not going to get the goal we've achieved. So here's why I'm calling for us to take advantage of this job that's already been done at the ministry and have the results of all these studies and analysis and the project was ultimately implemented. You remember everyone and you know that all the parks are somehow united and visually through a common visual identity, it was only one step that should have shown how much more quality and better to manage these areas. I regret once again that this fact has not been used and that I must conclude that this law has absolutely no reform movement or solution, and I am afraid that protecting nature and managing protected areas of the law will not be a good solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68001	Thank you, Agent Dragonovich. The next debate on behalf of SDSS's Club of Representatives is from the esteemed representative Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68002	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. I will begin my presentation with a constitutional provision, i.e. Article 3. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore, which says that conservation of both nature and human environment are the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Thanks to the wide variety of habitats and species and especially the large number of plant species, Croatia is one of the three European countries with the highest plant and animal diversity. Among mammals are especially the lynx, wolf, bear, numerous reptiles, amphibians, more than 65% of all known species of fish in the Mediterranean and more than 230 species of birds, so almost half of all birds in Europe are located in our country and it certainly makes us particularly important in one natural sense and is therefore very important and welcome in the European puzzle of the ecological network. So in this law, in the real order of the Republic of Croatia, two EU directives are transposed which are without substance and debated because they oblige us as a full member of the EU and lay down the rules of conduct that we are obliged to adhere to. In my presentation, I will look back on protected areas which are certainly one of the most significant natural goods of the Republic of Croatia due to the specific geographical position in which they intertwine in the Pannonian, Dinar, Mediterranean and pre-Alpine regions, Croatia is extremely rich in terms of this diversity. The Nature Protection Act protected 420 areas, which account for 8.56% of the total territory of the Republic of Croatia. For the sake of graduation, I would like to point out that the protected areas of the surrounding countries have a clear and visible desire to better regulate the protected area, especially national parks. So in our environment, some of the countries have a special law on national parks, and some even go one step further, so every national park has its own law. So all this says clearly about their efforts to protect nature as best as possible. In the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, we have been seriously warned about the so-called so-called SDSS. The ecocid on Peter's mountain. In detail, the letter we received described Petrova Gora that it was no longer forest worse than the naked hills. According to the definition found in Wikipedia, Petrova Gora is known as an old geological formation, which means it is rich in water and specific forest vegetation. Petrova Gora represents a unique forest eco system whose main feature is great stability and sustainability. This mountain mass is an exceptional habitat for a large number of plant and animal species. The heavy forest vegetation consists of a belt of hills and beech forests of about 75%, and the second most important is the type of forest oak of Chinese and common prey. I'm saying all of this to illustrate the importance of protecting and preserving nature and natural balance in Peter's mountain. Mostly on Petrovo Gora as it stands further in the letter we received there are no more mountaineering restrictions, because the views as much as you want, and when you take the main route through Petrova from Muljava to the exit for the village of Presect near the Bosnian border, the views shoot everywhere. There's that on the side, too. And suddenly Peter’s mountain is shown in its nakedness, standing still in the letter. At the discretion of our party, almost a third of the forest has been removed. So let's not forget that Peter's mountain is actually a lot worse than 25 kilometers. Then you can imagine the exploitation of the forest. Furthermore, the particular problem is the illegal exploitation of forests in the area in which private owners are mostly members of the Serb national minority who had to leave the area after the Storm, or do not live near and steal reported in their forests, so with a certain time-out. The police make as many possibilities as possible, and the foresters of the Croatian Forests do not have as it is known to go into private forests except for the owner's call when the tree is being made, the issuing of shipments without which there should be no transport of wood mass or because of this illegal destruction, the reported illegal destruction of trees. Such cases and similar cases should be stopped and in a certain way protected by owners, i.e. unlawful alienation of property and stop the destruction of nature. How serious is the issue of proper and legal exploitation of the forest within the meaning of the Nature Protection Act, and the case in which the European Court of Justice has imposed a fine of 100,000 euros, or 100,000 euros a day, if the government continues to defy the ban on exploiting the protected so-called. the white forest which is normally protected by UNESCO. Unfortunately, this is not the only case in Europe, and it has been found that many natural areas are threatened in a similar way because of illegal activities, and that there is a serious risk that can cause major and irreparable damage. It is precisely because of the above, I believe that we should take these cases seriously and be very careful for the protection of forests, i.e. nature, and the possible sanctions that God could not give us. What is currently, therefore, the level of culture of understanding nature conservation, as it is disastrously speaking, and the case when it comes to the Kanovci forest park near Vinkovac. After the holiday work on the nearby Sopot resort every year, there is a regular devasion of information and educational labels on the educational trail and depositing a huge amount of different waste in the area of the park forest. Although it was intended primarily for the student population and for the training of young nature keepers was also socially good because it was used by recreationals, tourists, and participants of various events held at the nearby Pika apartment. Due to these and similar cases, the need to raise a culture of nature protection in this area has been taken seriously in Vukovar-Srijem County and for the fourth year in a row a programme of training of young nature keepers taking part in the fifth and sixth grade of primary school. Otherwise, it is part of the cross-border cooperation project Serbia and Croatia. The main objective of the programme is to highlight the importance of nature conservation and the environment, and actively involve young people in the education programme. This programme includes 10 elementary schools from our county, 4 of which are from the city of Vukovar, then from Ilock, Sarengrad, Čakovci, Negoslavac, Lovas and Borov. These are therefore, certainly positive cases and it is important to point out that these future young nature keepers are familiar with the basic concepts of nature protection, the rules of behavior in nature, protected areas and species in our county, meeting nature around them, getting to know the most common wooden species of the Spačvan forest, the kind of birds of the vertebrates of our county following trails, etc. The first national survey of the views and information of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia discusses the citizens' understanding of the importance of nature protection. According to the survey results, around 62% of respondents consider the highest value of the Republic of Croatia to be their preserved nature. The vast majority of respondents characterised almost 69% of nature protection as an opportunity for economic growth. For the NATURA ecological network, almost 5.5% of citizens of the Republic of Croatia know about one of the most important topics in nature protection. Since 6% of respondents in EU countries have said they know the problem, we can conclude that the Republic of Croatia is in line with European standards on information on this nature protection mechanism. However, the fact that most of the 77% of the respondents have never heard of this problem tells us that even in the future more significant efforts should be made to inform the public about this subject. It is important that we approach the Act on the Protection of Nature very seriously, responsibly and in the education of young people and not just young people. We get to know them, so we need to protect nature. On behalf of the SDSS Representatives' Club, we will support amendments and additions to the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68003	Thank you for representing Dragana Jeckov. And the last debate on behalf of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club is a debate from colleagues Branimir Bunjc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68004	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, state secretary, honored guests. The law of a beautiful name, the Nature Protection Act, is before us today, and one could hope that after the adoption of such a law of nature will be protected in Croatia, but unfortunately the practice shows us that nature protection is in an ever worse state or nature in general. As advocate Jeckov said, this is essentially about the transposition of two European directives. I would just briefly remind myself that the conclusions of the European directives cannot be discussed, in fact, they are actually passed on by automation, with some methods being developed as to how those objectives should be achieved which are predetermined. In Croatia, we have a situation that nature is being destroyed every day by all its segments, starting with land and water, air, flora and fauna at the end of the people themselves. A number of scandals marked the mandates of the previous two governments, and it is they who point us to the conclusion that nature will not be protected but will continue to be devastated in an ever greater and larger extent. I do not want to remind myself of the case of Slavonski Brod, the idea of drilling the Adriatic that was in the mandate of some previous governments, but I would like to remind you that the previous government led by the gentleman from Canada, Tim Oreshkovic, his key move was by which we remembered him most, the sale of Slavonia to oil companies, the foreign case from Canada, right from the country in which he has citizenship, which, consequently, could lead to it, that Slavonia in the future would be turned into an oil field and not more like a grain place in Croatia. In particular, I would like to warn of the danger of hydraulic fractures, shortened fracking, an oil and gas-seeking method that destroys not only groundwater but groundwater, flora, fauna and has serious consequences for human health because it contains a number of radioactive and carcinogenic substances. According to this method, about 20 million liters of water enriched by chemicals are being impressed in each well, and it is permanently left below the surface of the earth, somewhere about 3 kilometers deep, but studies show that about 40% of that toxic mud later comes out to the surface. I would just like to paint a warning that, say, a well can be 5 kilometers away from the Croatian Assembly, but drilling the ground can go directly beneath this building, that's what citizens would be aware of, and what I may now deliberately do, because it was just a matter of talking about the Law on Carbons, simply so that people understand what's going on on on their doorstep, under their feet and they don't have enough consciousness about it. I would also like to read here that according to the official statistics I received from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in Croatia currently 130 wells use the fracking method, specifically in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County of them 10, Koprivnica-Kryzevacka 25, Međimurje 1, Osijek-Baranja 6, Sisak-Moslavina 34, Virovička-Podravska 4 and Zagrebaska even 54. While other countries, these are the same ones that send us these European directives, so EU countries forbid hydraulic fractures or at least put it under the moratorium, in Croatia we haven't even discussed it at all, so I used these short few minutes to warn about the problem. However, this government, as we can see, has no concern about its environment and has changed the person who runs the government, but behavior is the same as what we saw best in the Plitvice Lakes case, a recent affair that has erupted over who will run the national park. And here we saw that basically the representatives of the ruling party had clashed with themselves to the point that the national presidency had to be called. What's this about? Of course, this is not about some director of the national park being he Kovacevic, Mrs Dujmovic or I don't know, someone third, Mr. Novosel, taking care of the preservation of the national park, but on the contrary, they are working on its destruction. In fact, they, like that gentleman from Canada who led the government and some before him, succumbed to naked greed. So it's about greed, greed, the acquisition of material goods, not about being managed justly or specifically in order to protect nature. The problem is that the National Park Plitvice Lakes have revenues of around 270 million kuna, which is about 50% higher than the budgets of those counties that are there and then it's better to have those political structures say so, paw on over the national park than on the county budget. The spatial plan was adopted for the 2014 Plitvice Lakes at local level by the HDZ, unfortunately confirmed by the majority of SDP and HNS. What's the problem over there? There is the first problem that today there is no sewer system, there is no plumbing, and not only is there no water, but 10,000 inhabitants are supplied directly from the lake. So they draw water from the lake to deliver to the people. The findings that we could see in December of last year at the Institute of Public Health show that among other things, the water of Plitvice Lakes and the corresponding stream of fecal waters, detergents, pesticides and many other chemicals that would have to be equal to zero according to established international standards. We have seen that in this area, instead of protecting the forest, sew water, animal protection is crucial to who will build the apartments. So there is a tycoon among which it stands out, say, Mr. Chulo or Mr. Kardum, or as we can see, we also have the Prevenders of Zagreb's Kaptol to build apartments, hotels, shops. We see in the Spacious Plan of Plitvice Lakes a thousand new car parking places are planned, 100 new bus parking places, so that's the point. Is parking and apartments a place on the coast of the island or on the coast of Plitvice Lakes? It's not because those Plitvice Lakes can't survive that way. Why can't I survive? Because they simply depend on the existence of a saddle, and only if it is created by microorganisms called sedars. These segregators can only survive and only in crystal clear water, and we have seen that such waters are no longer there. Therefore, we can expect that what Mother Nature has produced for thousands of years, and Plitvice Lakes have produced for a minimum of five thousand years that this government, or some previous governments, will succeed in destroying in less than 50 years, and Plitvice Lakes will eventually be turned into a swamp that some will not visit too much except possibly mosquitoes and frogs. It is a policy that is run in our national parks and it actually shows how the Croatian state functions as a whole. So this conflict that we could see in the ruling party itself shows that they generally rule Croatia. So they do not rule by looking at some medium-term or long-term interest, to see something that could be given to future generations, perhaps to those and of course to those who will be there when we are not there, but to be seen as soon as possible to fill their own pockets before the end of the term of office, whether it is a mandate in the Parliament of Government or at some local level. I would also like to point out that these national parks that are being talked about here today are doing a number of jobs that have nothing to do with their fundamental function. Here is specifically Plitvice Lakes National Park deals with municipal activities, food production, passenger transport, renting apartments, which is the worst of all they give donations, giving gifts, giving which benefits, and themselves do not solve what they should even exist for, and that is nature protection, above all, water itself. It is amazing that in a national park that makes 270 million kuna a year, the inhabitants of the poor are. So residents of Plitvice Lakes Municipality are among the poorer in the Republic of Croatia, and this also shows how badly the strategy of developing an area that until recently worked very well because all of these inhabitants were involved in sustainable development, and among other things they themselves benefited financially from the national park because they supplied food, food for tourists, etc. Today, food is bought from imports, and people are forced practically to leave the area. It's a special issue there to issue building permits. It's a hoax that has no end or end, it's thousands of particles that are sold, resell, and they all go through one man. A single man oversees the sale of all building particles on Plitvice Lakes, by chance it is the husband of Mrs. Dujmovic, a man who has 32 criminal charges, repeatedly sentenced to a prison he of course never went to because he was protected by his political powers who like to lift weights and the like. The shallows would need a detour, among other things. Why isn't it working, why is the road going towards the sea passing directly through the national park, why aren't they being built entering Plitvice Lakes? These are all the questions I would expect someone who comes to the Croatian Parliament and talks about national parks and says something, but as we can see, nothing is said. In Plitvice Lakes, among other things, we have one of the long-standing gathering sites of political elites, there comes to the celebrations of new years, there are lunches, dinners, receptions, weddings, starting with that of Serbian Prime Minister Pasic over I don't know Karadjordjevic, through Josip Broz Tito until new days where we see that in Plitvice Lakes, there are members of the current parliamentary parties taking advantage of their influence to appease their party appetites. From the whole of this collapsing of bad decisions and bad relationships the only thing that would be essentially right to do, and this law of course is to prohibit the presence of people in national parks more than international standards allow. I would like to warn you that some of the orderly countries we like to compare with are, for example, comparisons. France completely banned tourists from coming to the site of world heritage. No more tourists can come, none more. Let's try the Lascaux cave in France. No way. You can be the greatest scientist, academic, you won't get there, let alone you're an ordinary tourist with a camera and a camera. In Plitvice Lakes and other places, we do not measure how many tourists pass. On Plitvices, at least 50% more tourists than would be allowed optimally. There, literally, all the rocks are being swept away. That's where the caves collapse. You know how long it takes to form a cave. So it takes hundreds of thousands of years, and then that construction truck weighs 30 tons, and the whole cave just collapses from the shaking of the ground. And clearly there are signs that vehicles weighing 3 tonnes on Plitvice Lakes should not pass. III, who's responding? You think this law is gonna make a difference? Why don't you enforce those laws that already exist? Why not implement the Water Law and a number of other laws that could prevent this disaster? Just because you don't have responsibilities and because the only God you have is the only goal you respect materially well. Everything is subordinated to profit, so there's mother country, mother nature, and animals are better off not to mention it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68005	Thank you. ... Branimir Bunjc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We now move to individual debates, we have one application, it is the application of MP Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68006	Dear Vice President. I have to go through my individual debate to refer to a colleague of the Bundes. There are different categories of protected natural areas in Croatia, I was already saying, one of them is a strict reserve. In strict reservations, you really must not enter without special permission from the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection. And also such categorisation, similar to that, exists in the EU, and everywhere in the world it is allowed to visit national parks, as well as in Croatia. So that's where you made a little bit of a mistake. But I will agree with you that there really is a lot of space, that national parks and other protected natural areas are managed better. I'll mention one problem that's obvious, here it is, you actually offered me about what I'm talking about, the Krka National Park, he's in season, has meaning this point visit is in a short, short period, so here, a million visitors in almost, in just two months. So we have a case that there were 20,000 visitors in one day. And they all go over one little bridge, which is wide, all a meter and something. So in the end, you have one plug of people, like what's on Stradun in Dubrovnik, we have one in Krk National Park. Fortunately, there's still a limited maximum number at one point is 10,000, although I'll say it's too much. Here's a suggestion, meaning to the ministry, that the price of the map may be raised, and the number of visitors who can suddenly stay in a protected natural area. When we talk about this law, and it's not an opportunity, and I've already talked about it, I'm going to say again, it's about one thing, something that is very, very important and necessary to make as a prerequisite for managing natural areas, it's a revision of all decisions on protection. I already said, we have hundreds and hundreds of decisions, which were made in '70. Year, '80s. A year, possibly before. And it is important to make one revision of all these decisions, i.e. to make new professional bases. And that, here it is, has now been missed by this law, given some kind of dead end, some deadline to do it. But here it is, according to the announcements, I'm sure it will be in this term, that it will be done. Furthermore, I have already spoken, I will repeat only briefly, related to the natural areas, which are located next to the national park itself, or near it. They can be managed by a national park under this law. It doesn't say, it does, it can. Whoever decides whether or not they can, it's not clear from this law. I would also mention one problem, which I also spoke about last time, but it is very important, in particular, I will say from the position of Sibenik Knin County, in the town of Sibenik, again national park Krka and this decision, that is, an article of the law which determines that the surplus income is to be paid into the state budget. It's a symbolic level, but I'll say that national parks are national, but they belong to the area where they are. When you look from the Sibenik perspective, which is also the city of Sibenik, which, which has two national parks, I think that every withdrawal of money in the local community is bad, that is, if we talk about decentralisation, that right here we have centralised rather than decentralisation. Furthermore, I must commend the provision of the law, which is given to the speleological objects, the right to concession the speleological facilities and public institutions, the county. Although I will express one fear here, who will, whether these public institutions are sufficiently professional, will this ministry be in disposition, because it will allow someone to decide in their own way how they will, means one... Highly capacitated experts, to say how they will be given to a concession prior to the speleological facility. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here's one, possibly a good way, of income, especially in our dinar areas, here's the Sibenik Knin County has over 1,000 speleological objects in the catastro. There's also a catastre of the minister's speleological facility, and I'm not sure there's anything to do about it. Here, I'd like to know, for example. There is a speleo club in Sibenik that works its internal cadastre in collaboration with the county public institution, but I'm not sure if there is a national cadastre. I see my assistant's air conditioning, so it's a good thing she exists. Here, in that field a little bit work so we have one that's a better cadastre and that's as fast as possible. I also talked last time about a concession approval procedure, which is quite complicated, one correspondence that is long-term and angled. Encourages many potential concessionaries, so that it can also be done, to make it a little simpler. Here, a little work has been done on the list of banned actions in the protected natural area, I think that it should still be worked on and I don't think it's a well-defined way of declaring an institution that manages protected natural areas and refers to local self-government, i.e. under this existing law, the County Assembly has to give permission to some local unit of self-government to establish its own public institution. I think it should be the Ministry. I think that the ministry is what should actually be allowed, not the County Assembly, because you often have small local interests, recommendations so that the ministry should be competent of local self-government to give permission to eventually establish a county facility in the local self-government unit. Clear for those who do not know, for example the park forest Maksimir or park Marijan forest are public institutions founded by the city of Split, or the city of Zagreb, while there are county public institutions in these counties. Well, here's so much for now, and I hope that the recent proposal for a final one of the comprehensive Nature Protection Act. Here I look forward to participating in his work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68007	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. And now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the final word of MP Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68008	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are talking about the final law on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act in the final proposal. The fact is, today we had the Environmental Protection Act. Simply European directives are prescribed, however, to what the European Commission is calling on us to solve a problem such as the Black Hill case in Biljani, you must all see it as a tourist attraction when you go towards Zadar. It's in flat wheels, one huge hill of 200,000 kilos, 200 thousand tons of pardonous waste, industrial costs, toxic cost that threatens human lives with its particles, endangers drinking water. So one huge problem. The locals call me, three and a half thousand signatures have been collected by people, left behind, left to themselves, to smell, to that disease. People can no longer fight this, and the European Commission has warned Croatia for years that it will sue it for not qualified as waste, and we have no waste disposal for the cost. I repeat, it happened similarly in my place in Sinj, near the river Cetina, the tributary. That's when I was running those protests, we stopped it, no matter what, the police were taking me in. The same thing the long-war industrial cost here is done in Biljani from the Sibenik factory, about 200,000 tons. People live in difficult conditions forgotten by all Mr. Secretary. The European Commission, of which we receive directives from the European Union, which are regulated on a daily basis, implemented in laws. Today, we have introduced 4 directives into one law, into Croatian law, 4 EU directives into the Environmental Protection Act. But there's still a pile of that hill. It's a huge hill, a black hill of poison, industrial cost, toxic cost in a place where people live, people, an individual who's forgotten by everyone except maybe at the time of the election. Then it's neat and regular we're all down on the ground in the flats with these people. The same thing is happening, and I'm gonna do it again in Plitvices. Plitvice lakes are very important, they are a national symbol not only for profit, but for future generations from which we borrowed this nature. We didn't get the environment and nature in the amanet of our great-grandfathers to destroy it, but to protect it for our future generations and to base ourselves on sustainable development, not just that local sheriffs are counting profits and that these funds of course control it, to control who's going to hire them in Lika-Senj County, how to win elections, who's going to be the headmaster, etc. But I have this picture. I'm going to show it again, and I'm going to show it until this problem in person is solved. I've been there at least once a week for years, so go and look at what Croatian defenders have warned lately. So the entire sewer system is aimed at one point, at one pit. I'll take this to you secretaries, and you can go too. A set of Plitvice Lakes, a national park flows here, means sewerage. And around people, the surrounding residents deal with tourism, rent their apartments, and it's an intolerable smell, that simply people are forced to lie to tourists who visit, lie about working here to hold cattle or someone. Well this pit, you can't see now isn't in color. In summer, it spills over how much waste water it is. It's a disaster! A national park and so much for water protection, so much for the directives that we have on a daily basis. Today we brought 10, 15 neatly, we wrote it nicely. But they're just as valuable in reality as this piece of paper. We look to the real world to catch these problems as protection of Krk Park, as Kornati. A colleague in front of me spoke like that to Cetina, so to all other rivers, tributaries, water protection, not to prescribe directives and not to allow the Ministry of Environment, I will repeat once again that the people defend themselves against the Ministry of the Environment to nature and the environment. It is also a fact in Croatia of concreteization, apartmentization and everything bad that happens in these beautiful parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68009	Thank you, Agent Buljo. At his presentation, we have one replica, representative Mark Vučetić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68010	Comrade Bulj, since you mentioned the problem of the Black Hill and Biljana, and this is the direct problem of the county from which I come. I would warn the public that it is not only about the fact that something toxic has been left in one village, but also about the fact that it is something toxic that has gone into all the structures of the government, the ministry, in the structures of the society has shown its impotence, but also in the structure of the inability to develop an indigenous local community that lives in Biljani Donji, because this poison that is present in the Black Hill is the poison that when the wind blows is in the crops around, it is the poison that is carried in the goods that these inhabitants are drying and that it is something that has become not only the fact that the environment is threatened but that it has become one mobile evil and inability for us as a society to face and find effective mechanisms. Is the ministries responsible for solving these problems not being able to act in the way of appeal, to issue a solution to remove this poison without taking care of whether the poison has indeed been removed. We have truly live dynamics, unfortunately the dynamics of the Black Mountain that destroys the environment, but it also shows the power of the infirmities of our laws and our determination to face it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68011	Thank you. Replicate reply by Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68012	Well, he would agree, only from the European Commission since the letter came to the warning that it would sue the Republic of Croatia because it did not put that dangerous Black Mountain into waste, only that they were going to solve that hill. It has grown to such an extent that simply if you take the highway that it can be a truly tourist attraction, there is a black hill. So many structures have forgotten from local institutions, county institutions, and of course that's the key obviously people are fighting in the field. I've often talked to these people if I had the same problem, but here's the perseverance of myself protesting, but together with people I stopped it in Sinj. But obviously these people are forgotten, there are people living and even the most numerous people are national minorities, the Serb national minorities who warn me, so Mr. Horvat just doesn't matter who lives, but I'm telling you that these people to their cry are forgotten and that this problem is solved by the triba. These people, when they open the window, they can't open it because particles go into the room, on their underwear, on their sheets, into their lungs, what's worst, and these people are dying of an increased death rate of carcinogenic diseases in that area. I think that the triba is dealing with this problem, the real problem that only solves is that the Black Hill is only being restored, and people don't see the exits, and that's the commitment that the European Commission has made to which we are calling here and their directives are being attributed from day to day, and... it pays everything just to sign over the commissions. You, as executive authority, should react without delay to this problem and do everything in this area where people live that waste is dangerous where the ecocid is on people, nature, water resources endangering, and above all, that we are not ashamed to drive along that road, highway and watch, rather than react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68013	Thank you, Agent Buljo. And finally, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68014	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs, distinguished MPs. First of all, I will thank all of you for the discussions, the opinions expressed and the support for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws, because they are therefore not about copying the directives, but about the obligation called the implementation of the European Commission's directive in domestic legislation. I would especially like to thank the distinguished representative Mrak-Taritash for a very constructive debate and support for the adoption of this law. Let me look back on a few major problems, so it doesn't go unexplained. Plitvice lakes burning the problem, we are fully aware of the dimension of the problem as the ministry. We are taking all measures to reduce the pressure on Plitvice Lakes National Park and to remove first and foremost the objections of UNESCO. Instructions have been issued to administrative departments for issuing works on construction and by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and by the Ministry of Construction. The result is a significant reduction in the issued permits for the construction of tourist facilities. To remind you, 50 licences have been issued since the application of the new plan of 2014 and since the publication of the leaflet in June 2017 only two licences. The signing of the Agreement on the financing of amendments and the addition of a spatial plan of the national park has just been planned to formally initiate the procedure for the launch of an amendment and the addition of a spatial plan aimed at removing the gaps from the plan which is in place and tightening the measures and conditions for construction in areas that are sensitive. So we're going to finance it by making that plan. The control of the water legal conditions issued and the coordinated inspection controls of inspections, construction, water law, inspection of nature protection have been established. A number of dozen solutions have been issued to remove objects or parts of objects in space or to adapt to the conditions specified in the permits. The park is working intensively on a national park management plan within which a special management plan is being developed for visitors, which will be completed in the first half of this year. It moves to intensively edit the visitor's infrastructure, modernise the entrances, sell tickets on the internet, and in order to better manage visitors, relieve crowds and introduce certain restrictions in the number of visitors. A comprehensive water supply and disposal solution is also being prepared, the agglomeration of Plitvice Lakes, which will be financed from eu funds of around 250 million kuna, which systematically solves this problem from Korenica to Rakovica, is already undergoing significant recoverys on the water supply network on the stock where losses are over 90%, and before the season itself, a mobile purifier will be set up on a key discharge in Rastovaca. So before the tourist season this year. I must say that the current state of affairs is such that the inspection established the flow of fecal water in July 2017 in two irresponsible private persons. After inspection, it was removed from the Plitvice stream. Park has been running an analysis every month and since then, according to an official report from the park, there is no pollution. My colleagues, Bunjc, a respected colleague of Bunjc's, I'd say to the parliamentary representative about the bypass. So in 2003, there was a construction permit for a shallow bypass and it expired. In cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, we urgently returned to the plan of new designing and making documentation for the course. It's probably going to be the 22nd, 25th optimistic forecast, but we've started re-planning the Plitvice Lakes bypass. Mr. Zmajlović, the shared funds between those who earn surpluses and those who need financial support is precisely the transitional phase of the project that Mr. Zmajlović was talking about. The amendments could not cover such a reform because the initiation of these changes is exclusively the removal of possible pilots and sanctioning the Republic of Croatia because of the non-implementation of EU provisions. So, in some kind of complete procedure in the new Nature Protection Act, it is likely that this suggestion will be accepted. So, Petrova Gora, a very small part of Petrova Gora, is protected as a significant landscape, but economic activities are allowed there as well, and it is being cut down and it is being carried out on the basis of forest-economic bases, for which only the Ministry of Agriculture is competent, we respect this fear and suggestion of a possible ecocid, but it is therefore the competent Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, in particular the Croatian Forests and their section for the management of private forests. And finally, counterpart Zekanovic, the dispute procedure of granting concession approvals. So these amendments are more clearly defined by the concession authorisation procedure, according to our view of the matter, and in the preparation of the regulation that will define the activity for which concession authorisation can be granted in the unprotected area, will be defined by the Regulation and the way in which concession authorisation is granted and the way in which the cash compensation can be determined and thus the allocation process itself will be accelerated. So, let's wait for the departments to make the rulebook. Dear colleague Bulj, I ask you for the Black Hill allow me to give you a written answer, it would be unserious, it's a complex matter, it's also a private particle, so it's an obligation to get a written answer to this question of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68015	At Mr Horvat's State Secretary's presentation, we have two replicas, the first replica is from Bunjc's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68016	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Horvath, I'm pleased with your statement that the bypass will be built but I can't believe you told me until 2025. [[Intruder Hajdaš Doncic: Secretary of State Horvat.]] So why does it take seven years to build a detour? In a national park that has so many incomes and represents a world heritage. I'm particularly surprised by what you said about the construction license being issued back in 2003. So in Croatia it takes 22 years to issue a building permit to build a road. It's amazing to me. I don't know if you're familiar with a little history so remember the French marshal Mormon who literally built the road within 40 days, when France occupied Dalmatia, say the road from Skradin to Split, a 125km long road was finished within a year in those conditions when the technology was much simpler, when there were much less resources, much less capacity and possibilities of the road were built quickly and here we see that for one bypass it took 22 years. So obviously this government when it's willing, let's say when it comes to writing a law for one man, then the law is written from Friday to Monday, then it's over in 3 days, but when it comes to protecting nature or God forbid, write a law that's going to benefit the citizens, then we can wait 22 years. I believe it's not your responsibility, you're just a secretary who's passing us the information you received at the ministry but here, we have to express our dissatisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68017	Thank you very much. The next replica is a replica from fellow Bulls, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68018	Thank you very much. Secretary Horvat, you said that in case... You don't have enough information. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it should be the focus of the Ministry of Environmental Protection because the European Commission has sent a memo that it will simply sue Croatia for not meeting the criteria of waste disposal and that this waste is not qualified as it should be. It is a huge problem, mainly for people in the area, but also for the nature and surroundings of the Ravni kotars. And I think that Black Hill will be on the list as soon as possible. I expect as soon as possible, because these people expect an answer, yet three and a half thousand signatures, numerous protests, yet people deserve that question. And as far as the private particles are concerned, the land is private. It still has land near your house to delay nuclear waste. Well, I can't put off the nuclear waste by your house so I don't know who. So that logic can't go and it's not a good message from this place. I believe that we must protect our nature, and this is what the European Council is calling on you and the European Commission to do. And all we have to do is protect nature, protect nature both on land and at sea, declaring an economic belt, exclusively an economic belt to which it calls us, to which we have the right under the '82 Convention. the years of the United Nations. This is what the European Union invites us to do. This uncontrollably destroys at sea, beneath the sea everything about nature is destroyed. Therefore, we must be just braver, bolder. And if we don't respect ourselves, we won't be respected by others, especially in the protection of nature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68019	We also conclude the debate on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Nature Protection Act with the reply of the Bulj, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68020	We are now going to vote on the debated points, the first is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 171, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendment submitted, with us the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, dear Mile Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68021	I thank the President of the Croatian Parliament. The proposed amendment shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68022	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. So I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act, please vote. I find it unanimous, with 124 votes for, passed a law on amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68023	We are now moving to the next item of the agenda, which is - The final proposal of the law on preventing the introduction and spread of foreign and invasive foreign species and the management of them, the second reading, P.Z. No. 173. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Does the Proposer's representative, Secretary of State Mile Horvat, want to give an additional explanation? He does. Well, here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68024	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and distinguished MPs, this is the same as the previous two Final Bills on the Prevention of Introduction, Expansion of Foreign, and Invasive Foreign Species and Management, the Second Reading. The draft law was adopted in view of Regulation 1143 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the prevention and management, introduction and spread of invasive foreign species which entered into force on 1.1.2015. The implementation of this Regulation imposes new obligations on competent authorities, and hence additional administrative procedures, and introduces the obligation of official controls at EU borders to prevent the deliberate introduction of invasive foreign species that cause concerns in the Union. Invasive sides of the species represent one of the major threats to biodiversity and related ecosystem services, and can also have a significant adverse effect on human health and the economy. The total number of invasive foreign species in Europe has been constantly increasing over the last hundred years. There are more than 12,000 foreign species in Europe. About 10 to 15% of them are estimated to be invasive, and the figure is projected to rise with an increase in global trade, transport, tourism, climate change. The estimated cost of damage and control of invasive species is around 12 billion euros annually at EU level. The actual amount is probably much higher. As a result, in 2013, the Nature Protection Act prescribed restrictions on the introduction into nature, placing on the market and cultivation of foreign species. So there were supposed to be prior permits. However, after the entry into force of Regulation 1143 of 2014 because of the scope and specificity of the problem of foreign invasive species, it was necessary to separate the problem mentioned from the existing Nature Protection Act into a specific law. And that's actually why we're going with these amendments and additions, that is, with the bill's proposal and among other things why we went with the amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act. This law therefore allows the application of the EU Directive and the EU's related implementing regulations in the Republic of Croatia, as it prescribes the issue of authorisations for placing on the market, breeding under controlled conditions and the introduction into the nature of foreign species, which has so far been governed by the Nature Protection Act, so that traders, breeders and citizens will not be changed. An assessment of the risks of the invasion of foreign species produced by the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is being arranged. This is a change from the current rules, according to which a study of the influence of a foreign species on nature is produced by an authorised legal person on the burden of the applicant requires. So that's a solution that's existing. This law also requires the burden of making a study from applicants to a professional body which also achieves maximum transparency, and the objectivity of the results of an assessment of the risk of invasion of a foreign species. The adoption of the so-called so-called so-called procedure shall be prescribed. Blacklists, i.e. lists of invasive foreign species that cause concerns in the Republic of Croatia, which will be prescribed by the Regulation, and related prohibitions of restrictions and controls. The EU regulations have already adopted a list of invasive alien species that are causing concerns in the European Union, which currently has 49 invasive foreign species. These types cause injury to such extent that it is justified to take measures at Union level. The adoption of a white list, a list of foreign species which has been found not to pose an ecological risk in the Republic of Croatia, is not subject to prior dating, marketing authorisation, cultivation or introduction. When adding foreign species to this list, they are taken... the species for which there is a great interest in the market of the Republic of Croatia, which is based on the data currently available, estimated not to pose an ecological risk to our biodiversity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law further regulates a detailed system of management of invasive foreign species in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the adoption of plans for the management of invasive foreign species that are already widespread in the Republic of Croatia is arranged, the adoption of management plans for those non-invasive foreign species in... The Republic of Croatia but are present with us, and measures are needed to avoid their day-to-day entry, expansion or control measures, so as not to become invasive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It shall be arranged to establish an early detection and action system in the event of the discovery of a new foreign or invasive species, and the establishment of a protocol, rapid eradication in the early stage of the invasion. For the purpose of implementing all of the above mentioned legislation, the competent authorities, their tasks, including the competent supervisory services, and their conduct in official border and internal traffic controls shall be prescribed. Finally, the law prescribes adequate infringement provisions for the infringement of EU Regulation 11/43, and provisions of this law. The funds for the implementation of this law will provide partially redistributed existing resources within the framework of the state budget, intended for the protection and nature sector, and partly by withdrawing funds from the EU Structural Funds, as already foreseen by the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion, 2014-2020. On 14 September 2017, the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection signed a grant contract for a project to develop a system, manage and control invasive foreign species of the total value of 11 million kuna. And the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency is the 10.4.2017 grant contract for a project to establish a national system for the monitoring of invasive species whose total value is 15 million kuna. It's just, in the end, I'm going to tell you, a few examples of invasive species, which cause concerns in the Union, which are present in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Here we are talking about the bar interior, in the area of the Danube alloy and in Istria, which, by digging holes in the coast, causes collapse and erosion, causes damage to agricultural cultures. In Italy since '95-2000. from nature, about 220,000 such individuals, and that activity cost Italy 2.5 million euros. Similar damage is caused by a Byzantine rat spread along the Sava, Kupu, Mura and Drava rivers. Diversifications, where an invasive water plant recently recorded in the Neretva Delta, also found that foreign signal cancer present in the Drava and Koran rivers, barbeque cancer present in... They dig holes, like their hideouts along the waterways, causing coastal erosions and creating repeated losses in channel maintenance and water protection areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One of the 100 worst invasive species is certainly Mungos, which has been recorded in the EU alone in the EU, more specifically in Mljet, Peljesac and surrounding islands. So this problem, no matter how not media-exposed, can be a very serious problem, unless we regulate it by law. That's exactly why we made the concept of this law, from the 1st to the 2nd reading. It was attended by nomotechnical remarks, nomotechnical content, by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection and by the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, therefore it was nomotechnical, different terms accepted by the applicant and incorporated this bill in this second reading. We therefore propose to this Parliament, to adopt the final proposal of the Law on the prevention of the introduction and spread of foreign and invasive species and to manage them, in order to at the same time have a special law that regulates this problem, and also to implement Directive 11/43, 2014. The EU which particularly regulates this topic and obliges all EU members to domiciled them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68025	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have a guarantee from your ministry, that... It only contains plants and animals, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Okay. Mr. Bull has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68026	Thank you very much. Secretary, this law is very important, however, the fact is that even on the list, I don't know if there's any list of invasive species, i.e. those species that have been introduced into the Republic of Croatia. In the principle of 100 species introduced, 10 of them basically survive in this area. That's a serious problem. We can list one of the key problems, which appears, here, now in Slavonia he has gone to waste, such as. The impact of such a system, it's ambrosia. Now she's already in Dalmatia, and she's simply jeopardizing the entire eco system. I can give you an example in the river Cetina, there's a pike, how... The habitat, it is a predator and trout that is in Cetina, is simply in very small numbers, because the pike predator, which rapidly develops, has no enemies and simply in that river fish fund, such as the trout, it destroys other fish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these are very important topics and should be reacting without delay for the protection of indigenous species. It's not just a problem in the river Cetina, you have a problem when there was a Peru Lake in Cetina was, before Peru Lake was cancer and now we don't have it, river cancer. So these are huge problems where essentially the eco system is disrupted by external, so externally disrupting itself with new species. Therefore, we consider this a very serious law. Triba make a register of all invasive species, write down because we simply have to preserve the eco system, balance in the eco system. Because predators when they come to Rijeka or anywhere else, simply species that are weaker, more powerless in that area are extinct as in the case of trout in the river Cetina. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68027	Thank you, too. Would you like to answer that? No, I don't. Okay. We're going to, first of all, do the committee's rapporteurs? ... Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? [[You can't hear it.]] No, I don't. Then Mr. Damir Mateljan in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68028	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished State Secretary, Assistant Minister. So, before us is the final proposal of the law on preventing and spreading foreign species and invasive species and managing them. First of all, I would like to say that the SDP Club welcomes the fact that the promoter has excluded this segment of issues from the Nature Protection Act and put it in a special legal framework of the problem of introducing invasive foreign species it certainly deserves it. This problem, therefore, is not exclusively a problem for biodiversity, i.e. the environment, but for the economy and human health. We have witnessed that since the age of industrialization, the world has been changing hastily, that by developing traffic, roads, ways of transport migration are more common. Distances are actually less, and human transport and good by both animals and plants is multiplied daily and in this way the world not only becomes a digital village, but it becomes a real smaller village. And human activities no longer require natural circumstances for certain animals and plants to cross great distances. The impact of foreign invasive species is so great that today it is believed to be exactly, that exactly the sides of the invasive species after the direct destruction of the habitat are actually the greatest cause of the loss of biodiversity on our planet. The environmental impact of foreign invasive species is manifested in different ways, so the alien species occupy the space of the origin species, use water and nutrients, change the conditions of habitat, but also the structure and composition of the community, secrete substances that negatively affect the growth and development of other plants, cross with the native species, transfer various diseases to them, etc. This applies equally to plants and animals. Whether on purpose or not in the Republic of Croatia has been introduced and an entire series of invasive species that have had and still have a negative impact on both the environment, biodiversity and the economy, above all on agricultural areas and on human health. One of the most famous examples of the State Secretary, which is the introduction of an Indian mongoose on the island of Mljet, where the animal was introduced to solve the poison problem. After she ate the poisons, she ate the chickens. After she ate the chickens, she ate the birds. After eating the birds, she ate the vine. She's just not evaluating into some sea animal that she can eat and fish and spread to neighboring islands, but also to land. Besides Indian mongoose, a whole series of other plants and animals are also invasive species in the Republic of Croatia such as ambrosia, which is a huge problem, such as California trout, tiger mosquitoes and there are more and there will be more, unfortunately. And you have a very bizarre example right under your nose. Namely, from the Maximic forest, or zoo, the northern American squirrel that destroys these smaller, squirrel pitomines has spread. And let's say in the UK it took 15 years for North American squirrels to completely destroy their natives. And that's where it happened. I'm afraid that's what's going to happen to us if we don't do something and do it very, very quickly. This law also harmonizes with European practice and should, in fact, represent a common EU legal framework which would then and in nature be a prerequisite for the introduction, to prevent, above all, the introduction of foreign invasive species at the EU border, especially those which, therefore, are recognised on the blacklist as extremely dangerous for biodiversity, for human health and for the economy. The law provides, therefore, for this legislative proposal to allow all legal and natural persons intending to place on the market, grow or introduce into the nature of foreign species to be allowed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The SDP Club welcomes the novelty which, therefore, leads to the creation of a specific legal framework for this problem, which is that the financing of such an impact study from the applicant, i.e. from the applicant, is also required by the investor to be transferred to the professional body, i.e. to the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency. In fact, we consider this a much better solution because, above all, an unburdened professional body will decide on the impact of the introduction, the spread of breeding and the management of such species, and the final solution will, therefore, be much more transparent, be much more objective than to say bring it, or to finance it itself by the investor. It may be good to say, therefore, that this law does not apply to those species that are indigenous and that return to the environment again, as is the example of the lynx that has disappeared, has been extinct from Croatia since the 19th century, has been introduced from the area of Belarus and Poland at the beginning of the 20th century or so, that is, this law also does not apply to the spread of native species to that area from which human activities have long since passed, such as wolves, such as bears, such as wild pigs, or late-onset bricks. These latest examples are actually proof that any law that has been passed on to me, and that it refers to nature’s protection, or nature itself, cannot regulate nature itself because nature always finds its way, and it often does not correspond with human pathways. So the SDP club will support this... /The speaker off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68029	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vesna Pusic, in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68030	Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. The GLAS and HSU club will support this Law on the prevention and spread of foreign and invasive foreign species and their management, but I will repeat a few of the things that I said in my first reading and several new remarks that are not so that they can be formulated in the amendments. In fact, they refer to the fact that you, Mr Secretary of State, have mentioned, and this is because of the importance of this topic, regulation of this specific issue or this specific issue is set out in the Nature Protection Act and regulated by a special law. And there are certainly good reasons for that, but this creates another problem which is characteristic of Croatia, but it is also characteristic of the EU as a whole and EU legislation as a whole, whose component is the issue of harmonisation of different laws that regulate segments of one and the same problem or one and the same area and the fact that very often then something that is regulated in one law is one way, in another law which applies to the same area or the same topic regulates otherwise or does not regulate at all, or some of the issues that are really important are actually falling out of the legislation. The problem of increasing or increasing the number of laws regulating segments of one and the same area also increases the problem of the absence of coordination or harmonisation of those laws and regulatory between them. I'll illustrate it for a moment, to make one more principled remark. It seems to me that both in the law and in the debates, much more attention has been paid to punishing, preventing, destroying different potentially invasive species than this other section mentioned in the title, which is the management of them because with the destruction it is possible to manage. So possible breeding management, possible habitat management, in many different ways can limit the expansion and reproduction of a species that is harmful, invasive or in some way dangerous to the ecological balance or to climate or biological balance. I will mention only some segments for which it would be important for them to be harmonised or where it would be important for this law to be in line with the regulation in those areas. For example, we are talking and today there have been discussions about the LNG terminal, so whether floating, whether fixed etc., however, whatever LNG terminal is going to come to it, and as we know it is planning on the Krk so high in the Adriatic, it will be reached by tankers with ingested gas that will have to take but also drop ballast waters. It will certainly come not only from the Mediterranean but very likely from the Atlantic, but it can also come from the Pacific or the Indian Ocean depending on which countries we buy it from and on which routes it will sail. In these ballast waters there are mass organisms that have no natural enemies in the Adriatic and which are potentially very dangerous for the flora and fauna of the Adriatic, but today they appear because they simply bind to certain large ships that come to Croatia. That doesn't mean, I'm not going to say no to traffic and that I don't need to go into these projects, but I'm saying that it opens up a whole new space that this law or some law relating to this law should be dealt with while it's time, so until it prevents the negative consequences that can arise and prepare itself for this new situation. This new situation also causes, for example, an increased number of cruises coming from both the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean and the Atlantic, and certainly the Mediterranean that are coming to the Adriatic, there are a number of large tourist and private yachts, ships that can already come to the Adriatic Sea today, again does not mean that this should be banned or that this activity should not be implemented, but means that the laws that regulate it should be brought into line with these laws because it is one of the ways that invasive species and dangerous invasive species that are not seen at first sight, and they can destroy the flora and fauna of the Adriatic and once they are reproduced it is almost impossible to contain them if they are not taken in time. Let's say the tanker regulates that ballast water and shipwashing is done... and not for example. either in the Adriatic, long before, somewhere where then you take ballast waters that are not only the Aegean Sea but possibly some further sea. So a lot of those things that look small at first sight are de facto ways to prevent an ecological disaster whose law is one of the instruments so it must be consistent with these other measures in order to be effective and to actually achieve the effect that is expected of it. The second or third subject I want to mention here is the issue of smuggling or unauthorized transport, as it is called here, smuggling of rare animals. This topic is closely related not only to invasive species and dangers for us but also to animal threats, so it has a close link to the law that we have recently voted in this Animal Protection Assembly and should in some way coordinate these sanctions that are provided here and the measures provided for here on the other hand by the Animal Protection Act that cares and the welfare of these animals in order for the total legislation to make sense again. The fourth thing, this proposal also mentions species or animals imported or imported into the country as they say for the purpose of research and production of medical products. It's a very controversial topic, an animal experimentation issue, and it's also one topic to look at in the context of the Animal Protection Act and comply with the provisions of the Animal Protection Act. So this topic is defined in Article 10(2), point 4, and then I think very significantly in Article 22(3), the topic of removal of invasive species, and that is where I return to what I said at the outset. So when we start talking about this topic, we start showing a basic often observed fear of humans from animals and the reaction is to kill them. I don't know how many 1500 cormorants there were because they bother fishermen, it's not according to the Animal Protection Act, not by common sense, not by good, not by effective means. So surely management is instead of killing, management of these invasive species, certainly there is a situation in which there is no other way, but there are many situations in which the control of reproduction and control of habitats are, for example, much more effective ways than killing animals, it should also be brought into line with laws that are already in force in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I said that these are things that are difficult or impossible to formulate in the amendments because they relate to mutual harmonisation of five, six, maybe a dozen different laws that regulate segments of human and nature's relationship in Croatia and that could produce the desired result and that they would have to be effective in one another. So, while we will support, that GLAS and HSU will support this law, we propose to the ministry that, eventually, a review of the laws that regulates this topic that we are talking about, therefore, nature, animal protection, climate change, all these segments and elements of transport, agriculture that are touching these topics, so that we can have a clear picture of whether the laws produce the desired effect and the desired effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68031	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68032	Thank you very much. Representative Pusic, you've found one thing that's a fact, means insanity. The inequality of the law is mainly well indicated by this problem, as well as the example of tankers, ships that come to the Adriatic but which release ballast waters and threaten flora and fauna in the area. Most of the work is not done only in predators and you have guessed, it may be the least biological cells that can endanger the entire species on the Adriatic, and I think the legal framework should accurately specify how these ships enter, drop ballast waters, because they are doing it even now in a way that uncontrollably releases ballast waters at night and even appears stains in the Adriatic that are huge. We even have a photograph showing that the size of the city of Split is stained with ballast waters. I believe that it must be done exclusively because of prevention, mainly the impact on animals and what you said, those who "smuggling". Prevention of influence from numerous diseases of the domestic species because invasive species are more resistant or bring other diseases. So this is a serious problem that needs to be seriously approached and not over-normised, but a simple, unique law that needs to be urgently passed here because otherwise we will endanger all kinds of flora and fauna both in the Adriatic and on the mainland because it is simply the most obvious example of ambrosia. It simply tramples everything in front of it, all the biodiversity in the Republic, and where it comes, it just shuts it down. Therefore, it should be the ministry's obligation to have one whole law and not to be alarmed not to know, one law talks about the same subject and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68033	Thank you, too. Mr. Damir Felak in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. And I'm sorry, Mr. Felak, I'm sorry, she raised her hand, I'm sorry, I remembered, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68034	I mean, I don't have much to say, I agree with what my colleague Bulj said, but he mentioned something I didn't mention, I think it's important and it's a veterinary aspect that we rarely think about. So these organisms are invasive and dangerous among other things and disease. So that's another aspect of that problem that should probably be harmonised with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68035	Thank you very much. I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68036	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament. As has already been said many times today, this Law on the prevention of the introduction and spread of foreign and invasive foreign species and the management of them is one of the laws in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with EU legislation. This is the final proposal, it has already been pointed out that there have been some changes between the first and second readings but they are primarily of a new technical nature and concern some changes concerning the alignment of this law with the Nature Protection Act. At present, the issue of foreign species and the view of their invasive nature is partly regulated by the provisions of the Nature Protection Act, the separation of foreign species and the Act on Nature Protection in Private Law, the whole of which is regulated by the problems of foreign species, and the specific area of prevention of entry and enlargement, and the management of foreign species including the invasive sides of species. This law regulates the legal framework relating to the placing on the market of breeding under controlled conditions and the introduction of foreign species into nature, the question of assessing the risk of invasion of foreign species is identified by foreign species that cause concern in the Republic of Croatia and related restrictions and controls. A detailed system of management of invasive foreign species in the Republic of Croatia is also defined. The competent authorities and their tasks shall be established, including the competent inspection of the body. A legal framework for effective international cooperation is established and appropriate infringements are prescribed. The paper in this law is that the burdens of carrying out a study of the impact of a foreign species on nature are transferred from the applicant to a professional body, i.e. the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, thus achieving greater transparency and objectivity of the results of an invasion risk assessment of a foreign species, since the provisions so far which the study of the impact of a foreign species on nature can only be made by the authorising officer and which can only be used in the context of a related administrative case are rationalised because the results of once-made assessment of the risk of invasion of a foreign species will be applied to all other identical administrative procedures. The Regulation will lay down a white list of foreign species which do not pose an ecological risk in the Republic of Croatia and will not require authorisation to be placed on the market and reared under controlled conditions and introduction into nature. If the result of an assessment of the risk of invasion of the foreign species shows significant impact, the species will be included in the list of invasive species that cause concerns in the Republic of Croatia, etc. Blacklist. For the parties, you know what is found on the blacklist, the law prescribes the restriction of their intentional entry into the Republic of Croatia, the placing on the market, exchange, holding, breeding and introduction into nature except for the purpose of research and production of medical products, while commercial stocks of such species will have to be resolved within 2 years of their inclusion in the blacklist. Treatment with foreign species is currently governed by the Nature Protection Act. This law cannot, outside its power, lay down provisions of the Nature Protection Act. At the same time, it is necessary to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements on the Protection of Nature, and both laws should come into force at the same time. The law on preventing the introduction and spread of foreign species, and the invasive foreign species and the management of them over a more complete and quality way, legally determines the problems covered by this law, and will therefore support this law by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68037	Thank you, Mr. Felak. And finally, as an individual debate, Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68038	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Assistant Minister. Invasive species, it is something that, not only Croatia, but many countries of the world will soon meet to an ever greater, larger extent, given global communications, to transport, which allows any species, whether plant or animal, from any end of the world, to come to the other end of the world. Well, I wouldn't say, not even futuru, but we meet. So I'd like to set a few examples here, if I were to sensitize the ministry gentlemen a little bit, for a few species that are very much creating major problems and that, in due course, except through this law and some other regulations, find a solution to their removal from the environment. It would begin with that species that is very well known to all of us, especially the allergies, it is ambrosia, whose pollen is a very large allergen, which is spreading uncontrollably and here it is, lately, even in coastal Croatia, where it was not before, and in continental Croatia I believe that everyone knows very well about it. So it's a typical invasive species. Furthermore, amorphous, a plant, located along the streams of rivers, which creates very big problems and affects biodiversity. Furthermore, tiger mosquitoes. We all remember mosquitoes from our childhood, and most of us today, we have mosquitoes and in the cold part of the year, mosquitoes, which are in a much larger amount, are just an intruding species, a tropical species, where unfortunately, we haven't found any cure. Speaking of the sea, here we have... various plants that grow on the seabed and unfortunately suppress that original habitat of ours, that plant that's our main one on the sea floor... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The oceanic in which he rests, I would say all the diversity of the Adriatic, that is, Croatian submarines. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, I have to talk about a variety of rodents, like beavers. We recently had one example, unfortunate introductions, i.e. reintradiation, of a kind in Croatia, so this beaver now, that is today, creates problems. And then we have some species like the barnutrium, a very lovable animal, you will see as soon as you enter the zoo in Zagreb at the beginning, but unfortunately it is home to many places in Croatia as well. I will also mention the act of chili, which are small rodents, used once to produce clothing, and today we have them in nature. One very big problem is one disagreement between the resistors. Like that. Today, we have declared California trout, a species that is invasive, and on the other hand we introduce it ourselves every year in large quantities. She wasn't in nature. With us, this classic trout is a river, stream trout, I'm short of a word. ... It's Latin, buddy, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the fisherman, due to the lack of a stream trout, largely introduct California even though he said I categorize as an invasive species. Furthermore, I would like to mention the problem of the Aleppo pine, here today we have discussed briefly on the board for this broader audience. Aleppo pine is a species, it's about... For which the forest is disputed today, whether it's autochton or alochton, whether it's domestic or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I would say, given the way it spreads, that it represents an invasive species. I will especially mention the example of Kornati National Park, where that basic phenomenon, that's the contrast of stone and sea, is slowly lost. We already have several Kornati islands, 89 of them, which are completely covered in forest and slowly changing the landscape of this extremely valuable space. I'll keep mentioning the plant, too, pajamas. Pajasen is one problem especially in Primorje hrvatski and with him, and with other species, I will warn, here are my colleagues from the ministry that it is necessary to educate all those who work in the affairs of nature protection, to recognise these species. Because we see very often that this pajamas is being nursed, that it's being cleaned around it, because it looks nice, but it's actually an extremely invasive species that doesn't belong to our space. Also, I will mention a small bug, which has been very present in Croatia lately, especially since it is working on a big problem in Primorje Croatia, it is a red palm pipe. Thousands and thousands of palm trees, not only in Croatia, but more than 60 countries in the world, thousands in Croatia, are millions in the world, permanently destroyed, disappeared because of this bug. Unfortunately, local self-governments aren't educated on this issue, so we have one spot at a time, one place at a time, in our shores that have been painted with palm trees, losing that decoration, because of the needyness. And there's a way to treat palms against this bug that's harmful. I'll also mention the pike. Štuka is also an invasive species, which exists in the rivers of the Adriatic, pardon the Danube left, i.e. the Black Sea left, but is not in... The Adriatic left, it wasn't today, so at least today it does. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even in Krka, she appeared, and that's also the problem. We have a problem with all kinds of turtles. We have our turtle, our bar... which is autochton for Croatia, but in recent times we have tropical turtles, which come from racial aquariums into our ponds and streams and suppress this bar turtle that is indigenous to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The problem of the cormorants is mentioned by colleague Pusic, it is a very big problem for the continental ponds, where, behold, the fish growers in continental Croatia have a very big problem with this aggressive invasive bird species, in our coast it is a swan. We have hundreds and hundreds of swans in the bays of Sibenik, Proklan Lakes today, where the end is. A few years ago, we had zeroes. We've got hundreds of them today. They're not aggressive to other people, but you just know that if I'm sitting on this chair, someone else can't sit. So that kind simply suppresses other species. I'd say this is a very specific topic and there's a lot of problems. And I've tried to list these types to point out a little bit how wide this problem is. And I welcome this law, I welcome its implementation. And here it is, it would be good to find concrete instruments, concrete rules for each of these species and a number of other ones that I didn't, of course, say, because biodiversity, I would tell us our main brand or one of the main brands in our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68039	Thank you very much. Does the promoter, State Secretary Mr. Mile Horvatt, want to take the final word? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68040	I thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. So, I'm just going to thank you briefly to all of you who have shown great interest in this topic and you're giving support to the motionary, or to the ministry in passing this law. I'll just look around for a second, a sentence, two. So, the ballast water problem on board is solved by the Maritime Code and the special rule on ballast waters, and they are in line with this law that we have now proposed. I'll just remind you, so categories are native species, foreign species, invasive foreign species, and it's hard to make a clear distinction today when invasive sides of species are created. This law, however, deals with those alien species that have been introduced in recent times or there is a danger of their entry. To such species, our eco systems have not adapted, so they cause or can cause harmful consequences. Preventive, so let's go with the bill. So we ask you to accept this bill and adopt it. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68041	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68042	Final draft law on preventing the introduction and spread of foreign species and invasive alien species and their management, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 173. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the prevention and spread of foreign species and invasive foreign species and their management. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous with 122 votes to pass the Law on the prevention and spread of foreign and invasive foreign species and the management of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68043	Let's move on to the last law, to the last decision, to the last act today. - Proposal for a Decision on the Declaration on 1 March – "National Day of Educational Rehabilitators" – applicant: The Committee on Education, Science and Culture is the Carrier of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the basis of Article 59. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Does Mrs Vesna Bedekovic want to explain herself in front of the promoter, i.e. the Committee on Education, Science and Culture? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Do the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee want to take the floor? No, I don't. Because they're the same. No, it's legislation. The first is then Mrs. Maria Alfirev in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68044	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament and colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is a decision to declare a national day of profession that is actually extremely important, and I would say marginalized in some ways. Well, here's the thing I'm hoping by this act, we're actually going to give that one important confession. I'm extremely glad that we are and in fact in these two weeks, and here we are on behalf of the club now, but here I am personally talking about the topic which is, therefore, personal to me. Last week it was the Law on Psychotherapy, and this time it's also from our Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation, meaning the decision to declare the National Day of Educational Rehabilitation, Educational Rehabilitators. This is a confession to the profession that truly deserves it, to the profession which is both business and call. The educational rehabilitator, in fact, requires a high level of empathy, a high level of tolerance and a high level of patience and high, high expectations. The profession of the educational rehabilitator is closely related to social responsibility, social sensitivity and social cohesion. The Educational Rehabilitator directly acts on the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the life of the community. It affects acceptance and respect for diversity. They influence the promotion of the rights of disabled people through their work and strengthen, learn, support and develop all the potential of children with disabilities and adults with disabilities. Educational rehabilitators work in different systems, in the education, social, employment, human rights and health sectors. Educational rehabilitator is present in the family of a child with a difficulty from the earliest age through early intervention to adulthood working to improve the quality of life of the persons themselves, but also the person, therefore, their families. So today I would also like to highlight the role of an educational institution that educates this fit of educational rehabilitation, which is the Educational Rehabilitation Faculty. 55 years ago, Professor Špoljar founded the University of Defectology in Zagreb, which later became a university until today's school of education and rehabilitation. And then and now it is actually the only institution in Croatia and in Zagreb where educational rehabilitators and related professions can be educated. It is an exceptional institution that shows with its social responsibility and connection to the community one of the utmost importance for the development of the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the life of the community and systematically, so one incentive and respect for diversity. This has also been demonstrated by the establishment of the Rehabilitation Centre within their educational institution, which shows that experts, so teachers from that university, are intensively not only scientificly perfected, but also by their professional work contributes, strengthens and further educates themselves and contributes to this inclusiveness. This profession is what I also want to highlight, and it is about this, and I hope that this day will also contribute to some changes in this regard, that this profession is deficiting in Croatia especially for all those areas outside of Zagreb. And it's been going on for many years. I suppose this is the result of students from other parts of Croatia staying in Zagreb after their studies. But this is probably the result that the registration quotas haven't changed in a long time, so something should be done in that area. I therefore welcome the initiative to make serious, therefore serious, will, therefore, the existence of a serious will to set up an extraordinary study of dislocated study, so beyond Zagreb, what we assume will bring, contribute to the resolution of this problem, and that young people will also be able to educate not only in Zagreb but also elsewhere. I hope, warmly, it will be somewhere near Dalmatia, but also in another part of Croatia. This should certainly contribute to the staying of experts where they come from and covering this labour market deficit. The facts and indicators of the Croatian Employment Institute are also very clear about this, which stems from their recommendations for 2018, but this has been going on for many years. These are recommendations for the educational, enrolment policy of scholarship, and here I can personally say, coming from Sibenik-Knin County I am actually witnessing that this is how much of a deficiting interest it is and how much it really is the demand of all institutions, all providers of services that care, which provide social services to people, children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities, and they don't actually have professional staff and then that job must do some other related professions. And I believe that by actually allowing an extraordinary study, education and these people who want to work in this area would be possible. Finally, I am happy to see and personally participate in the adoption and declaration of this National Educational Rehabilitator Day and, in fact, congratulate all my colleagues and colleagues who have chosen this honorable job and this important profession and call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68045	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mr. Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68046	Dear colleagues, in your presentation, you were mostly talking about educational rehabilitators in terms of their employability, market needs and the way they acquire knowledge and how it is necessary to dislocate this institutional training, i.e. the production of experts. However, it seems very important to point out also when it comes to the institutional part of the education of educational rehabilitators, which is that there is one property, which is that it is a profession that represents the quality of public emotions in society. How do I think that? When you look at the program of this study, there is one concept that is different from everyone else, which is that candidates and future experts require the possibility of empathy. So, by calling, professions can't deal with people who aren't capable of empathy. And in order to be the empathy and empathy of those at the same time should be able and carry out a car reflection from the position of their own profession, so that we have the dare to say one noble circle. We have a profession that professionally observes itself, ennobles society and helps that endangered population, a population that needs our institutional and social assistance to build society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68047	The left front of the big brain after new research. A little shoot, and then I can get to work. Here's your answer. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68048	As I understand it, you also think that empathy is actually remarkable without empathy can't be done most of the work, so a lot of jobs can't be done, and especially when it comes to people who work with children with disabilities or with adults with disabilities, then it's almost imperative. So that's where I agree without empathy we can't talk about how hard it would be to talk about how this job could be done, that's how much I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68049	Thank you very much. And now Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, will now perform.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68050	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this initiative and I will only remind myself that this initiative for the declaration on 1 March came from the Association of Educational Rehabilitators of Croatia on the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators and, of course, this initiative and this proposal to discuss parliamentary working bodies, so the Committee for Science, Education and Culture and the Committee for Law unanimously supported this decision. And here's a colleague already mentioned that the date mentioned on March 3rd as the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators is related to the day of death of professors. Tomislav Špoljar, who in the early 20th century in Varazdin initiated the establishment and operation at the time of the first auxiliary departments for students with developmental difficulties, and later in 1963 he founded the University of Zagreb School of Defectology, which at the time of the 1960s was the first and only higher education institution when we talk about university study of defectologists in Croatia, but also in the entire former state and later on, that high school became a university and professor. Tomislav Spoljar and the first dean of that same college. Today, as has already been said, educational rehabilitators are educated at the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation of the University of Zagreb, which today is the only such species in the Republic of Croatia and of course plays an important role in the education of the staff of this specific profile, which can then work in various areas, for example in the field of education and education at different levels, in social care, in the health care system, and also in professional rehabilitation and employment. And through all these activities, some species that include the activities of educational rehabilitators primarily refer to education-rehabilitation evaluation, then early detection and intervention of children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, as well as promoting the rights and needs of children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, then a rather important segment of educational and educational work directly with children with disabilities and persons with disabilities, and then also later participation in professional orientation providing support for employment, and then all those educational activities aimed at professionals and the environment that surround children with disabilities and persons with disabilities. And of course, what I think is an important part of their activity is the educational-rehabilitation evaluation, and then professional and scientific research in this area. Of course, when we talk about the very act of declaring March 1st The National Day of Educational Rehabilitators will thus achieve additional and necessary emphasis, meaning and roles of educational rehabilitators both in institutions where they work professionally, but also in all local environments where they work and then in the wider social community when we talk about national level, especially because they are, with their knowledge and their competences, removing prejudices and children with developmental difficulties, but also towards people with disabilities at the level of the entire society, which I still personally feel in our society, that we still need to stress the importance of removing all possible prejudices in this area. What we find particularly important here is the fact that educational rehabilitators advocate and promote and rights of children with developmental difficulties, but also the rights of their parents because, unfortunately, we are witnessing the fact that in practice we have more and more different causes and different kinds of difficulties, different damages that our present-day students have. And it is this whole spectrum of difficulties that arises among the students, and here is the growing need for a special approach when it comes to working with such children in the immediate follow-up, so a differentiated approach that will then try to satisfy and satisfy the individual needs of each individual student. And, of course, the important role of educational rehabilitators is at the same time providing support to the students themselves with difficulties and their teachers who work with them and then their peers and their parents and community as a whole. And following all that I have stated, I repeat again that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the decision that the Croatian Parliament declares on 3 March the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68051	Thank you, too. Mr. Vucetic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68052	Well, I couldn't resist without taking the moment to speak to you on the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators, who are outside the political life of the pedagogal and Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, who is an outsider political life psychologist. This day of educational rehabilitators is due to an extremely complex and noble occupation that brings about diagnostics, certain treatments are being expressed, but also the evaluation process is being carried out, and many related occupations are taking part, from educators, social educators, psychologists, rehabilitators, other therapists, logos, so that on this day, by declaring the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators, we at the same time declare the importance of all those professions that care for our most noble citizens, and these are people who have certain difficulties and difficulties, since the holders of these difficulties are persons who represent value in this society, we must also treat them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68053	Thank you, Mr. Vuccitic. Mrs. Bedekovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68054	Just for a little while, of course, I agree with everything you said and I'm glad you listed all these profiles and all these professions that somehow said go hand in hand with educational rehabilitators when it comes to teamwork, so team approach to students with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities. I would just say that not only are they professions and professions that require apart from personality traits and a certain level of competence, therefore depending on the area in which it works, but I would say that these are actually calls, a man who works with students with disabilities, who works generally with children, with people with disabilities, what he does and has to experience as a call and experiences as an invitation, and on that basis he can be successful in the work he does.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68055	Thank you very much. Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, please, as an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I join the previous discussions that highlight the importance of marking this date, I would also like to share with my colleagues and the joy of the Association of Educational Rehabilitation Experts of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Ličko-Senjska County, Istria County, which are working at the Centre for Education and Education in Rijeka, as this initiative for the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators has started out of their ranks. What I would particularly like to emphasise, given that March 1st is very close and that all of our decisions that we normally make when certain dates are at issue remain not only declarative, that, here is Professor Bedekovic and the Committee on Education of Efforts and maintains in the Assembly at that time not only a lesson marking this date but that we try to determine in the Assembly what are the main problems for which we have already heard today about the work of educational rehabilitations. First of all, it's a deficit, it's small registration quotas where it's clear that we can't do much but we can appeal to the university that, of course, respecting their autonomy, find a little more money and increase registration quotas at the Faculty of Education and Rehabilitation, and of course all cities and municipalities like Rijeka that do this, see and in their resources, plan funding in budgets to scholarship these deficits to ensure that all children with development difficulties and people with disabilities can develop to the maximum of their remaining abilities and thus ensure that they have as much quality of life as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68057	Here you go, Mrs. Bedekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68058	My colleague Jovanovic, I am pleased that you have mentioned this now, of course I also support your proposal and initiative, and it seems to me that we might, along with the registration quotas and the scholarship of this profile of interest, both by local communities and at the state level. Another important situation that we have in practice should be mentioned. We have to admit I don't know what it's like right now, but at least that's how it used to be. Namely, teams working in primary schools with students, I mean professional associates, educators, psychologists, and educational rehabilitators, in all our schools are not adequately filled in the sense that teams in primary schools have at the same time all three of these profiles, but somewhere it comes down to a pedagogue alone, somewhere just a psychologist, somewhere in a combination of educators and psychologists. Unfortunately, somehow, it seems to me that it's pretty rare for those schools that have all these three experts on this team, so I think we should put that same problem on the table. And here I am using the opportunity and this opportunity to say that in Virovitica-Podravska County these days we are going with the construction of a center for education, which is precisely the center that our students are attending with developmental difficulties and we are proud because it is one of the major projects. Here's the thing about education and education in our county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68059	Thank you very much. And the building's individual debate, Mr. Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since everything is substancefully said. I'll take out a few of these culturally... The segment of importance of declaring this national day of the educational rehabilitator, because we, as we have seen from the previous debate, do not want to stress the importance of a profession in the way of emphasising the hermetism of the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For indeed, there would be no justification or sufficient development to single out educational rehabilitators and to declare the day of the educational rehabilitators, because we were kept only on their established knowledge, but because we are guided by the principle that the purpose of things is worthy of the very things. So, what makes us both a committee and a council, I hope unanimously we have decided to support the National Educational Rehabilitator Day, is that we have recognized the value and not the ideal one, but the real value of people with different difficulties and difficulties ranging from intellectual metal to sensual motorists. And from the earliest age to adulthood, and that way, as a society, we decided on both early interventions and so on. transition programmes in which we will help our adult citizens, who have certain problems, which for them become real, true, unconquered existential situations, which require an adequate response from society and this adequate response of society must be at the level, therefore, of established knowledge, at the level of professional response and at the level of integration of all citizens in society and the construction of society. If we did not accept this hodogram of activity and if we gave up on this idea base, then the Croatian society would develop at the level of the derivatives of evil metaphysics, not at the level of what this society should go to, which is that what we have until the 20th century was at the level of some kind of transandence, which is that by the beginning of the 20th century, whether you respond to the needs of people who have developmental difficulties, that today, when we know that we do not yet fully overcome this marginalization of these citizens and that we need to develop these public emotions, in order to get closer to the ideal, not only to make society succeed, in a knowing way, to share charity to help in the development of society, but to act in a liberating way, which is to root out all the elements that will lead to marginalization of any layer and any population, especially this population that has difficulties in the development. That is why I hold, I hope and expect that the Croatian Parliament will unanimously bring and declare the day of the educational rehabilitators, precisely because of that, which is the value of those experts in those whose profession and knowledge is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68061	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when the conditions are met, tomorrow morning we will continue at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. It means important law, but there are too few of you, to make propaganda to come to that law. Carry it, go and reproduce. Session adjourned at 6:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-01-24-0.u68062	Proposal for a decision to declare 1 March the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators. Supporter of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to declare 1 March the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators. Please, let's vote. I find that it is unanimous with 124 votes for the decision to declare on 1 March the National Day of Educational Rehabilitators in the text as proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. First item, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, First Reading, P.Z. Number 268. We have hands in the air of two hands, first colleague, and more, first fellow Glasovic. Here you go.
