ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81483	Dear MPs and MPs, I wish you a good day. We're continuing the plenary session. Before we begin today's work and agenda, one notice. Point 4 which is planned for discussion today Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 281, Proposer Siniša Varga, unfortunately we will not be able to discuss this because there are no business conditions yet to be discussed because the parent committee has not yet done so just so you know as well, so we will discuss the report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017, the applicant is the main state auditor. And now we move on to the agenda point: - Proposal for a Cybersecurity Act for operators of key services and providers of digital services, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 320 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Defence Committee. I would like to invite the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, Mr. Zarko Katic, the esteemed State Secretary of the MUP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81484	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The cybersecurity law of operators of key services and digital service providers will be transposed into the national legislation of the Directive on measures for a high common level of network and information systems 2016/1148. Thus, a series of directives have been developed in the context of the implementation of the EU Cybersecurity Strategy of 2013 and comprises part of the EU's broad digital initiative, which raises awareness of the need to create a digital economy through segments of modern society from the creation of the EU's single digital market through strengthening citizens' security awareness as a whole to foster the development of public private partnership and electronic services in the state administration and economy. The basic objective of the NIS Directive is to introduce common minimum requirements for capacity building and planning, information exchange, cooperation and common security requirements for entities providing or providing services that are essential for economic and social activities, and in particular for the functioning of the internal market. To that end, this Directive selects sectors which are relevant to society and the economy and defined digital services. These sectors are, for example, energy, energy, therefore electricity, oil, then transport, all modes of transport, banking, infrastructure, financial markets, the health sector, drinking water supply and the like. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, and all digital services that must be covered by these minimum requirements have been defined, the obligation to identify key services in the defined sectors that I mentioned as well as to determine the dependence of key services on information systems has been introduced. Therefore, the types of entities covered by the NIS Directive and thus the obligation to apply this law are grouped into two groups. First operators providing key services to society and the national economy, key services operators in the text and secondly, subjects providing digital services of primary importance to the EU's single digital market, so digital service providers. The development of obligations for operators of key services is fully responsible for Member States while the obligations of digital service providers are developed by an implementing EU regulation directly applicable to Member States whose implementation is to this end provided by coordination bodies at national level. The law provides for the implementation of the full regulatory process set out in the Directive for the purposes of the operator of key services. For the purposes of digital service providers, such as those based in the Republic of Croatia, which provide services in the EU area and which are not excluded as small or micro-enterprises, this law provides a system of competent authorities and treats the requirements of such providers in the Republic of Croatia or, where appropriate, coordination in the case of incidents which may include citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are users of digital service providers in the EU-wide area established in another Member State. The regulatory process set out in the proposal for this law begins with the identification of operators of key services under the law of certain criteria and thresholds for each sector and subsectors. The law transposes the obligation to implement appropriate security measures in accordance with the operator’s own risk assessment when the service provided on the market depends on the network and information systems or the digital service provider. Similarly, the obligation to notify incidents which have a significant impact on any provision of any service shall be transmitted. The supervision shall verify the correctness of the implementation of the prescribed measures and the implementation of the incident notification. The monitoring of the implementation of the prescribed measures shall be based on a conformity assessment given in the context of the process of reviewing the safety of network information systems, an identified operator or a digital service provider. The audit shall be carried out in the framework of the sectoral statutory audit and, where the audit obligation is not established sectorally, the Law provides for a procedure carried out by the technical body for the assessment of compliance established for certain sectors of this Act. Notification of incidents serves as a concerted and coordinated assistance in solving incidents as well as prevention of future incidents. The prevention and resolution of incidents shall be carried out within the framework of the system of national and European incident-finding bodies, as well as the unique national contact points of the Member States and the coordination bodies of the European Commission. For the full transposition of this Directive, the adoption of a sub-legislative act will be a Regulation on cybersecurity measures of key service operators and digital service providers, which will then lay down measures to achieve a high level of cybersecurity of key service operators, as well as how they are implemented, criteria for determining incidents that have a significant impact on the provision of key services, the content of incident notifications, the manner of delivery of information and other relevant issues for handling such notifications. What the Law introduces, on the very draft bill, was done by an inter-resor working group based on the conclusion of the National Cyber Security Council which began working on this Law in June last year. The organisation and activities of this inter-resor working group were the Office of the National Security Council, and members consisted of different ministries and bodies as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, State Protection and Rescue, Ministry of Information Systems Security, CARNET, HACOM, HNB, as well as sectoral competent institutions other than members of the Council, such as the Ministry of Science, Education, the Ministry of Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Finance, HANFA and others. Therefore, this Law is based on the cybersecurity strategy that was adopted in the Republic of 2015 on the NIS Directive and we believe that this Law is one logical sequence in order to introduce security for citizens, for economic operators and, of course, state institutions as a whole. Here, if there are any questions in the first reading, we will certainly consider and prepare them very soon because of the obligation to adopt this Law for a second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81485	I thank Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Katic. We have a few replicas. First came the honorary colleague Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Secretary of State, I find this to be a very important topic and I personally support this form of law which is actually a transposition of the directive. We've seen both recently and the public has actually been warned, which means certain cyber attacks, it seems to me that yesterday and HANFA also came out with a certain statement. However, my question to you is that certainly the state needs to be organised much better and that the state needs much more significant and more resources to deal with at all those involved in these attacks, and I see that here in the Law itself there is no indication of what the amount of funds is, and since it is significant means and I think that you have to fill out that pattern of fiscal impact and that this should provide these resources in 2019-2020, I am interested in your assessment of how much it would cost the state. I'm saying, I support that, so it's not that I'm criticizing, it's what I support. However, we need to know how much it costs and whether these are enough resources to actually fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81487	Thank you, colleague Lalovec. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow secretary of state, so I'm also interested, we're witnesses, so in the world it's a trend that more and more are available and the services they are hurting unfortunately, on the other side of the law, injure the rights and privacy and security and harm both individuals, companies and the state. I am interested in what is the situation in the Republic of Croatia, or whether this Regulation makes it a safer place for cybercrime than it has been to give us one image. It is good when we present such laws in the Assembly to get a picture of what is happening in Croatia and whether it is happening and how much is happening, that is, not only in the media about cases in the US and other countries. There's probably that in the Republic of Croatia, so we could get a little bit of information on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81489	I thank my esteemed colleague Gordan Maras. Answer, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Mr. Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81490	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, the fundamental intention of this law is to, of course, make it as safe as possible for our information and network systems, but it is not the only law that will help our society to be safe. It's about constantly updating and harmonising all our laws, as well as connecting all the bodies that care about security in our country. We think that the greatest contribution of this Act will be to connecting and preventing incidents for bodies that have public authority or companies that provide significant services on the market. This law has contributions, where all companies are listed, as I said in my opening statement, by carriers and operators, i.e. electricity suppliers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81491	Thank you, colleague Katic, for your time. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81492	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm glad this law came on the agenda. I would, through this replica, point to this problem that you were talking about almost half a year ago. No one's talking today, and it's about the unseen cider attacks, the unprecedented cyberwar against the Republic of Croatia, which coincided with General Praljko's suicide at the HAG. We haven't gotten the information today, who did it, and we have a constant, targeted effect on individuals, on groups, on social networks in the Republic of Croatia. You mentioned that these are listed in this law and the companies concerned by this law, I didn't see any foreign companies, I didn't, for example. saw Facebook. So these companies are not covered by this law, and they today cover 50% of the media space in the Republic of Croatia. I think they must be included in this law in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81493	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81494	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. I also think it's a good decision to pass this law, not to change all the other laws in which these elements were to be incorporated. However, you did not state before the end of your presentation one fact, which is that it is also necessary to adopt a sublegal act, which would regulate, content, notice, therefore, the way in which the public will be informed that something has happened, which is the obligation of all those who commit and this law. Since we have a lot of regulations that are correct, which are good, but are also looking for a series of sublegal acts, I'm curious, are these sublegal acts already in some phase of completeness and when you intend to bring it in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81495	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. Answer to the Honorable Secretary of State, Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81496	Dear Madam MPs, the regulation I was talking about has been made, e-consultation has been carried out and it will be addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as soon as this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81497	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81498	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Katic, State Secretary, with fellow State Secretary. Perhaps a few introductory words, to gain a little context of the importance of this law and this directive. We all know that today's most powerful industry is the one related to Internet and information communication technologies, i.e. the digital market and concepts, such as the digital market, information communication technologies and the Internet are actually inseparable from security. And in this sense, we are aware of the importance of informing and internalising and digitising, but at the same time with great advantages come huge risks, and one of these risks is certainly and it is not too stressed to say that a system can literally be torn down in several clicks, which has been the case lately, some cases have been in the EU and outside the EU, and it has also been about road or air traffic control or energy systems or certain institutions or institutions. And despite growing awareness and knowledge of cybersecurity, on the one hand, in certain professional circles on the other, in certain circles, covering the highest, let's say that citizenship remains insufficient. Thus, a survey at EU level shows that as many as 51% of European citizens do not have basic information on cyber threats, and 69% of companies do not have an elementary understanding of risk exposure to cybersecurity. And what we're aware of is that the preservation of cybersecurity is already now, and it's going to be another of the biggest challenges of every country, because it's known that this kind of attack actually knows no territorial borders and no classic weapons. And what we know and often read from newspapers and follow through pages, that certain criminal groups or individuals, therefore, use the Internet in various ways, in order to achieve their goals, but not only target state institutions, corporations, companies, systems, targets are often and influential individuals. And to achieve goals in one country, they are usually physically located in another country, to make it harder for them to get into the area. And they're often countries where control of the Internet system is weaker. It's on one side when it comes to terrorism, but on the other hand, when it comes to so-called terrorism. With hacker attacks, that's not the case, because there's actually no difference. I recently believe that we have read, that an individual from Great Britain has hacked into US institutions, some will remember this case, and all of these opening words I have actually said about a better illustration of the importance of this topic. Otherwise, European institutions took a strong step in strengthening their cooperation in the fight against cyber attacks on 20.12.2017, and I would say that this may be the biggest step ever. There was one interinstitutional so we'll say agreement, where a permanent team for computer interventions, etc. was established. EU CERT. The agreement also covers all EU institutions, bodies and agencies, we see the importance of the agreement. It should co-ordinate the EU's response and all its members to cyber attacks aimed at institutions. A colleague here, I think Maras, asked the question of the situation in Croatia, so I will also allow myself, on behalf of the promoter, to say two words. So you have a SOA report for the past year where you are told that at least seven major hacker attacks have been carried out on the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, of course it's not said for the purpose of data protection. And as far as the budget is concerned, of course you should, a colleague of Lalovac asked the same question about the budget. The budget is quite large, but as far as I'm aware, funds from two CEF and GrowCERT funds have been made available this year because there is no money to implement these actions. The Telecommunications Council also agreed at its meeting on 24 October 2017 on the establishment of an Action Plan for the reform of cybersecurity throughout the EU, and then the ministers stressed the importance of this issue. But what is very important is that last year has been a turning point, let's say so in this area in the EU because during that year, the EU has started preparing a new law in order for EU members to face these threats together. And as far as I know, it's going as planned. For example, we saw that in 2016 more than 4,000 attacks on European institutions by certain Ransomware programmes were recorded in the EU every day, which violated citizens' confidence and left certain uncertainty. And we often hear about the single digital market as one of the EU's most important objectives, but there is no digital economy or stable public administration without a reliable security system, these are simply links in the chain. And this concept of the Digital Single Market is comprehensive and it does not only concern investment in companies to technological modernisation, information, robotics, etc., concerns all of us citizens in all EU Member States, concerns the achievement of equality in accessing the Internet and services where we know that Croatia is still catching up with developed countries, but what is particularly important here and is linked to this law that the single digital market will not fully live until all EU member states are at least at a close level in all these security parameters, which is also today's draft law implementing this directive in our legislation. And we know that the digital area in its definition is already just antagonistic. Why? Well, there's currently no area in the world like this that's so complex that it's literally in every pores of private and business, and at the same time it's the most vulnerable area in the world because it's literally possible for a bar person to hack into the national system of a state or institution. And that is why the text of this directive, which we are incorporating into our national legislation, is even harmonised and regulated for three years between the councils, committees and parliaments and at the end of all Member States, in order to reach one consensus on all relevant issues on the one hand, and to allow satisfactory European co-operation and common security on the other. Therefore, I think that the reference to this proposal for today's law is one significant step forward for a better level of cybersecurity in Croatia as an EU member because this law fully relies on best practice and on this mentioned NIS directive. And what we should remind ourselves is that the Member States had until May of this year to transpose the Cyber Security Strategy into national law, and by December of this year to determine the so-called cyber security strategy. The key services operator, mentioned by counterpart Katić State Secretary on behalf of the applicant also rules on cybersecurity at EU level, was informed by the Council in May 2016 and entered into force in August 2016. So the transposition of this NIS directive into our legislation is important for many reasons, but now I do not list them all individually because it is quite extensive and the law essentially means the following, common network of protection measures in all EU Member States and better co-ordination between these countries in the area of cybersecurity. In this respect, Croatia will also have to introduce measures for high levels of cybersecurity, for example, the following sectors, the energy sector or the area regulated by electricity supply, oil, gas supply, so all these parameters, water, road, air transport, health sector infrastructure, etc., etc. And I will stress that in the past year and a half, Croatia has been in this area, and this area of cybersecurity has been covered by the defences, the MUP resolutions and the National Security Council Office, because in accordance with Article 30 and 31 of this proposal, we see that the National Security Council Office is also a single national contact point for the implementation of this. So we see from this that these threats and threats are being taken into consideration and we see that these resolutions have been working very hard over the past year and that the workers who have done this demanding job have actually entered these processes and understood their essence both at global and regional level. And what's important to say to one extent is to strengthen the financial position here, the financial resources have been strengthened over the last year and a half for those portfolios, but what's particularly important is that the operational capabilities have been strengthened. And I am sure that all of us aim to make Croatia a country that will be high-quality in this security regard and on its own but also within the EU and of course there is no such achievement without money in all these measures. And that is why it is important to say that, apart from the budget on which State Secretary Katić will probably say something more, the use of funds from two funds, as I said from the CEF and... And it may also end up saying that not only will there be a better common policy for both Member States and at EU level, we must also objectively say that we will get a lot of obligations for resolution bodies, a lot of new demanding jobs, a lot of the need for coordination, mutual cooperation and our resolution bodies as well as resolution bodies in the EU, but still all with a view to bringing these complex procedures of public private and competent state bodies to a simpler and more efficient cyber security system in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81499	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic for this debate. We move on to the next debate on behalf of SDP's Representatives Club, respected colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81500	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State, representatives of the government. This adoption of the law stems, of course, from the obligations of the Republic of Croatia on the harmonisation and transposition of the Directive on measures for a high common level of network and information systems security over a period of 3 years to which this has been agreed. I participated directly and in very serious debates that were taking place on this serious issue. In fact, it is true that the area is digital and the economy is actually without digital today. This is what is very important to me, it has been about all parts of the economic sector, as well as initiatives related to the digital economy, the European Union and the EU, taking into account this danger and the area where we are truly vulnerable, threatened and which can cause serious needs both in the economy and in security, has met the conditions and directives and equally the obligations of Member States to address the issue of cyber attacks protection strategies. The NIS directive itself, which has been passed for three years and represents a broad, digital initiative of the EU and extends awareness of the necessity of development just as well as of the digital world, as well as of the protection against attacks on this very vulnerable space, because there is a very serious situation in this cyberspace where there are really good examples that a young man who doesn't have finished school and even comes from our country, registers a company in Austria and makes serious hacker attacks and for the sake of money that is probably hard to collect for life. What I want to point out here is, of course, that the implementation of the directive itself is also about harmonising with the protection legislation against personal data. What is really important to point out and this is the previous attacks that have been, it is true that 9 of the public report by the Security Intelligence Agency, however, should be noted that this was only relevant to state institutions. What this law solves is that key service providers are not only in the state sector, this is now starting to apply to all others in the areas of energy, electricity, oil, gas, transport, air, rail, water, road, banking, infrastructure, the financial market. But equally health sector, water supply, distribution, digital infrastructure, Internet traffic exchange, services, domain and control,... national domains. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these are all areas that are listed here in the law, and they were certainly exposed to highly hacker attacks that are not recorded here, and that is what they want to mention, which is that they can actually conclude that at this point we do not know who these carriers are, or who they are, by the 12th month of this year, should be located as key carriers next to state institutions. The National Cyber Security Strategy itself represents a framework for Croatian society as a whole and specifically sets a set of objectives, measures towards the public academic and economic sectors and the citizenship sector as a whole. I would like to point out that a very important part with quality data that we have just heard about how much EU citizens know at all about the dangers, the opportunities that are happening. Such a thing is relative and of course to the Republic of Croatia. And in this sense we fully support this part, which is education and preventive action on the prevention of cyber crime, as well as the dangers that come in this digital area. In this first part of the requirements of the NIS Directive, these are operators providing key services for society or national economy, they are identified in 7 sectors and the second group is precisely those that are providers of digital services. Now that's where I see a partial problem, and that's if we don't know them right now and if we have to list them, I think that deadline that's really fast approaching us and needs to be defined as soon as possible. Regulation of the system of competent authorities at national level, their integration with EU competent authorities will certainly help the Republic of Croatia. We must not agree to always be those who in some way will service their data to comply with certain EU obligations, but we must benefit ourselves. Croatia is not isolated, we are an integral part of a large community and therefore, this very demanding task for me can certainly be achieved in the good coordination of not only our carriers but also in the situation that a single national contact point will be the one that will very much receive data and be of great benefit to all those who are exposed or are at risk of being exposed to attacks in this digital world. What I wanted to stress again is the question that the national cybersecurity strategy in this highly digitalised world, very sensitive, because of the accumulation of large different data funds, etc., requires preventive action, is very important from the education system to all the key ones that exist in the need to expand awareness of it, it is an area where really one click can collapse everything. For this reason, I would like to stress that the accelerated process of digitisation of various industrial sectors such as today's variants in which we have an E-Citizen, a system which, if collapsed, causes serious disturbance for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and if this is not followed by appropriate security measures, implementation of the NIS Directive itself will actually create a beautiful story on paper and, in this case, we will not provide a more secure information society. That is why the SDP club will support the adoption of this law, we believe that the long-term debate that was in the EU and the talks that were in the Republic of Croatia and in all the discussions that were conducted with the Information Security Office, the neat National Security Council were both contentive, constructive, but I will look back at the end that at this moment the existing capacity of the competent authorities does not know, that the number of applicants implementing the requirements of this law still do not know, the implementation of the plan for the use of European funds provided for the implementation of this Directive is still unknown. I'm not saying this for the reason that any message would be sent in terms of opposition, but the intention that these are the last three things, and these are the means with which this very demanding, very complicated, one serious protection mechanism, the protection of this country in an area where the Republic of Croatia may not have been so exposed in incidents, but that can happen to us, too. For this reason, it is very important that these last points, which is just the state, are those bonds, which are their obligations and the resources for which it is not enough to stress that they exist in potential European funds, but at such implementation and implementation we must have accurate figures and then will be clearly visible in what extent it is actually necessary for this country to meet exactly the basic criteria required by the directive and that the capacities of this country are really prepared for the prevention, prevention and defence of possible incidents in the cyber world. Once again, the SDP Representatives' Club will support the adoption of this law in the first reading along with these remarks we make to the applicant, we believe that this can be further improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81501	Thank you. Let's go to... And, says counterpart Bukarica to welcome the students who are here with us, and then welcome the students of the Electrical Engineering School from Zagreb, welcome. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And after that, the SDSS Representatives Club and Honored colleague Milorad Pupovac, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81502	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, State Secretary, students, colleagues and colleagues. An extremely important and important legislative initiative when not only is the creation of a single, market and economic space within the EU, but also because of national security associated with network and information systems that are becoming increasingly widespread, increasingly present and in fact more dominant spaces, forms, ways of communication and in our society, although we are seriously lagging behind other countries in this respect in different areas. So this law regulates the vertical system, does not regulate a horizontal system that is also extremely important, someone mentioned here, it's a question of relations with individuals, it's a matter of relationships with values, it's a matter of views expressed on individual networks or information systems, it's actually a matter of vertical control and vertical surveillance and vertical communication that depends on both operators and those providers that enable them to function and enable users to provide communication necessary for their business or for their work. So seven sectors or seven areas are covered by this vertical system. From energy, through transport, banking, infrastructure, financial market, health sector, supply of drinking water and its distribution, digital infrastructure, exchange of internet transport services and domains and control of several national domains, therefore, eight, not only seven, as I said, extremely important and significant for the quality of the performance of the job, the quality of the services being done, and for their general security, and, at the same time, for competitiveness to a large extent when individual sectors and individual businesses are affected. It's so surprising, but at the same time it illustrates. When we talked about the Istanbul Convention, we couldn't live here, not in public, not in Parliament, not anywhere. Now that we're talking about something that's the future, something that will depend on the maturity of our economy, the maturity of our society, the maturity of our consciousness that we're thinking about what the future is, not our grandchildren, not our children, but these young and older ones that were at this gallery. Now, that's where we actually fail and show that we're victims of consciousness, victims of a view far from the future, and it's very important to devote ourselves to this theme, similar to the subject, in an adequate way, by the fact that this Law doesn't bring any particular paper. It actually contains lists, on the one hand terms, of the scope and scope of the affairs that individual bodies will carry out and, of course, what may be most important, is that it actually recognizes which areas are within which they will be carried out and which are the bodies that will be in charge of it and that is actually the most relevant thing when it comes to this Law. So, what and what areas, which sectors are covered here and what is important, are those bodies which, in accordance with this Law or in accordance with the EU Directive, will carry out what is the task of this Law. So, in this respect, for me and for the SDSS Representatives Club, the key question is, Mr. Secretary of State, how much are we actually qualified? We have some bodies that are already working, but how much are we qualified for this new kind of work culture and the new kind of professionality and the new kind of ethics that requires it? Because most of these bodies, from the National Security Council offices to various bodies that cover individual sectors, will actually require exceptional professionalism, a new type of professionalism, a new type of ethics because in many things there will not be those who will monitor them, but many will be able to monitor them. They'll be able to protect a lot of things, but they'll be able to miss a lot of things if there's no proper professionalism, if there's no proper ethics. So it would be extremely important for us to know how these people will prepare professionally for doing these jobs, how they will be chosen to do these jobs, how and how they will meet the criteria they need to meet, for example. both judges and state lawyers and similar important actors in our society, which we know from different practices so far that they have not always met the highest professional or highest ethical criteria. So what we are doing today is a minimum infrastructure legislative step, but in order for this minimum infrastructure legislative step to be in the right sense of the word to be fulfilled, it is necessary that we have this professional, that we have this ethical dimension. So, in this case, this is particularly true because in this case there will be communication not only to entities within individual sectors such as energy or banking, but there will be communication to the competent authorities of similar species in other countries and within the EU, which in itself assumes the highest degree of professionality and the highest possible degree of ethics in this respect. And on this side, of course, it is a great opportunity for us to make at least certain parts of our state bodies as professional and business and professionally ethical as they have been, and at the same time it is an opportunity, of course, to create and strengthen those institutions that need to be made possible, which are schools and universities that we unfortunately and in our budgetary policy and in our budgetary policies do not treat in such a way, we do not recognize as necessary sources for providing such personnel and human resources as are necessary for jobs such as those that will eventually become more and more, which will eventually change the classical types of what we call bureaucracy, what we call supervisory and control instruments or actors within our country. And lastly, I'm going to say two things that, in this respect, this is an opportunity to remind ourselves of what we should do when it comes to the planning of our budgets for the needs imposed by these legal solutions and what comes from them. That's why I'm not surprised that when you say what means are necessary to secure themselves under this law, you say it will only be known, more or less. You know about what sanctions will look like for someone who doesn't follow any recommendations or who doesn't follow the law, but when it comes to the cost of this, of course we don't have a certain estimate. We don't have an estimate because it would actually require a deep analysis, which is all we need to do, in full and in the right sense of that word, as the country prepares for this job. And not to say, what is and how much it takes to take in a global world, dominated by individual operators, dominated by the owners of individual communication channels, we take up some kind of position, which will guarantee us such security. Such security. Which, of course, we can't make up for, that we're going to compete with big, American or Chinese or I don't know which potential candidates, to build big lines, big highways, communication roads, but we can compete in the construction of other forms, we can personnel and we can program, we can make different means available in this respect. And we can of course, the security mechanisms and the security culture. If we were to compete, I think we would really take advantage of the opportunity to be a more efficient, more professional state-led country than we are. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this bill and will take part in a further discussion of the proposal which is... To study. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81503	Thank you. We are now going to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81504	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. In fact, an important law, an important proposal, more to start as advocates, to bring awareness of the new circumstances that have arisen, and I think that this bill, too, says if you look at when it occurred and how much it is negotiated within European institutions and when we ratify it, it says something about changed circumstances and changed speeds, i.e., urgency, which we will need here. So, what is the purpose of this series of directives, therefore, of the EU Directive, is to introduce appropriate protection measures and to make sure that there are safety incidents that occur in individual systems, i.e. in certain countries. What I find illustrative and necessary to repeat here, so to speak, are the sectors to which this directive applies, and then this law applies. Energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructure, health sector, drinking water supply and its distribution, digital infrastructure. In order to understand why there is no, not why there is what there is, but why there is no what we think it should be, enough to conclude, to see from this proposal, that this directive, which was adopted in 2013, has been harmonised for 3 years. Today, in 2018, in the cybernetic sphere and in the cybersecurity sphere, such things happened that were neither on the horizon, nor were they allowed to deduct from the situation as it looked from 2010 and 2013. And these sectors that are mentioned here are of course very important for security and in every respect, but in the meantime it has proved to be a key problem, political use of personal data. So, people are on internet networks, these data are collected and used for various purposes, in the meantime, since this directive was adopted, they have been used in the ISIS war against the whole world, therefore, for terrorist purposes, but also used for political purposes. Yesterday, a court decision was taken prohibiting Cambridge's analysis of the institution, which is now widely said to have had an important impact on the results of the US elections. Of course, who paid for it and in what way, that's another topic, but with their work, using Facebook and various other data, according to official data for 80 million Americans, and according to the exposure that Nix so the head of the agency recently presented at a conference in New York City, 200 million people. So they've collected data for 200 million people, with the thesis, that with over 60 posts, lakes and heits as it's called on these networks, they can predict 80% of how someone will vote, with 150 they can fully predict, so with minimal deviations and then, of course, target and plan the campaign. So what we don't have here is the use of cyber data from the cyber sphere for political influence and political corruption. It has no reason not to be if it is so obvious once someone tells you and gives you an apparition, I would place a bet in Croatia as well. What we are asked here as a question, are institutions that are as slow as European institutions that have to coordinate 28 and soon 27 Member States through time, can they in this area at all? There are areas in which, of course, they are clear and obvious that they can, but in this area that is changing at such a terrible speed and where what was true in 2015 is no longer even close to the truth today, let alone 2013, let alone in 2010, when this whole directive entered the procedure, but let's just say that we are counting with 2013. It's some early childhood situation we're facing today. And that's why I think it would be useful, and we at the GLAS and HSU club talked about the possibility of having and combining always in such an area that is so sensitive and that so quickly changes two levels of regulation. One is European standards which are okay, agreed, assumed and which are some general context. We cannot treat them precisely for these reasons that I have cited here, and which if you look at the very case of Cambridge analysts but of course they are not even close to the only ones they are only the most famous at this time, so in this area we need to de facto come up with a regulation that will be much more up-to-date, much faster and much more modern, so to answer to a much more emerging situation than can ever be the case with European legislation. I repeat, the European Regulation must go through this process of harmonisation of Member States, long-term consultation and it cannot react at that speed to such a dynamic and potentially and as dangerous, and certainly such an immeasurably influential instrument such as cybernetic communication, such as these networks, such as data that exist today and freely circulate around. A small example that we must surely face in some way. You, when someone reports an intervention or a post as a negative hate speech anything on the Internet he automatically strips himself without checking. This may not be particularly important in such outsmarting or political bickering. But what happens to serious data? What happens to the data that tells us about us, let's say what I know about some profile that can be downloaded from the communication that we have on the Internet or add to that profile that comes from many other conjectures, including what kind of risk you are in life insurance or when you take credit, so some serious things not only affect life, not just these things, let's just say the words are not pleasant but are not necessarily so important. So we need it here with this European framework, we need some plan or some list or some methodology to which we will react as Croatia, with what is a general place to which we will react much faster and much more adequately to the emerging circumstances, more up-to-date, simply to the changes that are happening in the cyber world. Because with everything that's regulated here, there are also sanctions for institutions that violate some of these rules. Now the problem is most often that in these institutions you don't have enough education and cybernetics let's say sophisticated people that they can track it all, and those who attack them will certainly be first-class. So those who attack these institutions from the cyber sphere will certainly be first-class in their abilities, very creative as we have seen all over the world and not necessarily from the most developed countries or only the most developed countries in the world. For example, US elections were seen as being held by one of the main groups in Macedonia. So a group of cybernetically very creative and written, if I may say so, children, young, young people who, to whom most of the officials in the institutions you mention here are not up to it. And for that reason, the question that I am also asking here is, if sanctions are provided for for these institutions and for these individuals, then it will be very important to define how they will be educated, that they will come into one situation at all, to be able to permanently educate themselves and to mate with those attackers and the attacks we have seen in the meantime. So on behalf of the GLAS and HSU club, let me suggest two specific things to supplement or a little stronger in the next reading. One thing is the relationship between European regulation and domestic regulation which seems to me to be much more dynamic and much more up-to-date than it can be theoretically European. And the second is how to equate abilities, whether through education, whether through new groups that form and employ there or become some kind of teams that follow these institutions. So how much to balance those who need to ensure this prevention of theft, assault, the implantation of these data and other and security risks, their cybernetic sophistication and those who commit and carry out these attacks. In other words, if it's an education, if it's special teams, but I think here you should be aware that middle-aged officials won't be able to mate to kids to say so. So people, older teenagers, and people in the early 20s who stand mostly on the other side. We will support it as a proposal but please consider how these two things could be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81505	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate now. First up, Comrade Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81506	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, tell me these questions that the predecessors have told me whether, as far as yours is concerned, you have information and you should have it for safety, that the current situation in the Republic of Croatia is in cybersecurity because simply at this point Croatian citizens must know that they are not protected, that the safety of individuals, institutions is compromised, because we have no information at all when we see that much larger systems and as my colleague has said in front of me and influences democratic processes in a strong state like the United States. So we're basically late, like the whole of Europe, and especially me because if we have people who aren't trained for this, who aren't written for this digital time, for cyber-time, I think at this point we have to have a suggestion of how much it costs, how much it comes in the budget, where they're going to be trained to fight this. Otherwise this story is just and this law is just a form that we're going to support, of course, everyone but it's just a form. Because at this point, the fact that each of us, an individual in the Republic, can download any data without any protection, any digital communication. That's a fact. Therefore, at this point, we are more interested in, who is going to do this, who is going to do it except that you wrote about how much it costs, how much funding is provided for in the budget and how to fight it. We do not have that answer, we are doing this purely for the sake of the EU directive and the security of citizens is compromised, citizens are not safe, individuals, institutions, their data are not protected, because if I repeat in the democratic procedure, the elections have an impact on the US elections, then you know how it works, it's one social network, and in what way it works in all other data. So it's clear and loud to say that we live in an uncertain time, a time where data collapses however they want, it's a fact. And from that fact, when we admit it, then from that fact, cybersecurity must be built. At this point, if we have in offices where they still write on the printer's machine clerks doing their job, then we're talking about the time where we have to invest, in people who will know how to do it, who will be well paid, who will be professionals. Do we have the money, are we going to spend it, or are we just going to pass this law of pure pro-forms to bring it in? So it's missing here, I agree with my colleagues and this influence on political, of that data impact on political processes within society. I'd just like so many questions if you could answer my safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81507	Thank you. Before the replica, just to welcome the second group of students of the Electrical Engineering School from Zagreb, I welcome you. Now it's up to the dear fellow Falcon. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81508	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, fellow Bull, you mentioned the leak and you mentioned it as a negative one thing and I agree. When especially not good when the official data of a girl from certain state institutions. But then I want to know what you think is good when you're using data from a girl and you're using some political options and some groups for your political interests? I know they've had such cases in the past, so I'm just curious about your principled position, is it good that some political stakeholders use data from state institutions for some of their political interests to get votes, get some points in public, etc? Do you think it's a good thing or should we have one clear criterion for everyone and say that the data cannot leak, that these data must be kept in accordance with the law?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81509	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81510	Thank you very much. Of course they have to be the same criteria for everything. So you have that, I mean, personal question, what is the protection of any data and is there any protection of any data? Of course, protecting any data. We're not talking about banking, I mean, it's funny to talk about banking. So I know in the Homeland War they paid, in the Homeland War... Croatian army foreign bank. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they had an exact list of soldiers, water, dozens of water to the commander of the brigade, how much pay, how many soldiers there are, therefore, those data are public. But I am talking about individual personal security and the impact on political processes is possible and proven. I mean, we see what happens to social networks. So here we're saying whether this law we're bringing in pro forms or we have the means to provide education for those who will be professionals, who will be well paid and how they will fight because otherwise this will be just a letter on paper, if we don't have money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81511	Thank you. The second debate is a respected colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81512	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We've heard a few open questions that my colleague Bulj has compiled. Professionals are always educated in colleges, so they'll probably continue to be, and what's an open budget issue. So, it would be good if by the second reading this indicative cost that has lagged behind in some way, since it is obviously not visible here, although I said that money can be withdrawn from two funds, so obviously it will be helpful, but it might not be bad because a few colleagues have warned about it, and we know that the protection of information systems costs a lot, and we know that therefore the European countries, so maybe this is the answer to these questions that are raised here, in this area of cybersecurity and the protection of information systems, are turning to a public-private partnership and the cooperation of security intelligence, so to speak, miles with the scientific-academic community to seek the best solutions to protect the system. For example. We have cooperation with the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing or with the universities of Electrical Engineering and Computing and Specialist Studies, on the one hand, in technological terms, and on the other hand we have cooperation with IT companies, inter-resorship cooperation between ministries, between resistors, so to speak defenses, internal affairs and intelligence communities and cooperation with the real sector in all of these segments from energy to other segments covered by this series of directives. And then, in the whole package, we need to have cooperation with a resolution body or resolution bodies in the EU, and under Articles 30 and 31 of this proposal, this will be the responsibility of the National Security Council office as a national contact point that will actually monitor the implementation of these provisions. This law is very demanding although it integrates a series of directives in itself, but it brings a really great need for coordination, new jobs, complex procedures, and opens up some opportunities for public-private partnerships, what is now in the EU, in fact, where more and more is being done. When we talk about this area, then we know that the basic postulate is the so-called postulate. Internet stuff and basics to say so, so I don't know, agida maybe, that anything that can be connected will be connected. And that, on the one hand, is a great advantage most banal, and on the other hand, the consequences of course, if the system, any system or national or energy or any other system or institutional system is not protected, the consequences can be terrible. Because at the same time, we have billions of connected devices and thousands of potential dangers. And not only the danger of personal data or company data, but the possibility of coloquially saying what I mentioned that literally someone via a laptop falls into a national system, for example, an electro-infection, or does damage that is immeasurable both in material and in any other sense. The world economy is estimated to cost literally 400 billion euros per year at the moment. 400 billion euros a year. That's a lot, and it's expected that in 2020 there will actually be tens of billions of connected digital devices, which means tens of billions of potential risks to cybersecurity. We can imagine what it means for a company if such an attack happens. But what is important, an incident in one country can have an impact on other countries, but at the same time it can have a significant impact on the whole of the EU. And so I would remind very briefly of this connection and that is the basic postulate of this internet space and cybernetic area, that what is changing in that internet area affects this entire space, that is, all connected devices. And in order to understand this area, we are practically literally on a daily basis and on a weekly basis, we need to monitor the news that is happening in this area, and that is what is actually, almost an hour by hour, new advances occur in this area. And always keep in mind the parallel between the Croatian national security strategy and the global national security strategy because it is two parts. The security of an individual is always, of course, first of all, but it is also important to have an integrated approach to that security, and on the other hand we have a networked common response to the threats the global community is dealing with and that is the meaning of this Law and there is the meaning of this series of directives. Because as I said, for cybercrime and cybersecurity, the state borders, they absolutely mean nothing and we know it well, and the EU is very aware of all these problems, and that is why it is aware that, let's say, its mechanisms and its enigma, that is, the agency dealing with this, which is the EU Agency for Network Information Security, and it literally has no capacity at this point, which can cover all these kinds of threats and worses and have decided to restructure the agency and in a way that this new agency would have new powers and have new tasks. And these new tasks, new agencies, to put it this way, would be to assist Member States and EU institutions as well as all businesses that are in EU member states. And that is precisely what this directive means, therefore, to strengthen cooperation on cybersecurity, between Member States, is the meaning of this Directive. At the same time, the isolation of Member States in the area of cybersecurity, on the one hand national security, and on the other hand this national security, integrated into European security. And what is more important, in the end, to say that this bill fully regulates the system of competent authorities at national level and what I mentioned in the debate on behalf of the club is its connection with the competent authorities of the EU and the Member States. And all Member States must have at least the same criteria, i.e. the same parameters, and that is very good. For example, a single national contact point, which is in Croatia, we said under Articles 30 and 31, is the Office of the National Security Council. And this law, therefore, provides for another good thing, and I hope that what can be harmonised will be arranged between the two readings, and some things we mentioned will be delivered. Therefore, those entities which do not comply with the requirements of this Directive shall also be subject to infringement provisions. And these crimes themselves are grouped into three levels, so to speak, according to the seriousness of the offense. And I consider it personal, that's my opinion, personally, that's good. Because without the threat of sanctioning, unfortunately, sometimes there's no quality work, no matter how rough it sounds. Because these Articles of 42-45 prescribe those fines of up to 500,000 kuna, which are actually necessary, given that we look at the earnings of those entities that can be punished and their potential responsibility if they do not comply with the law. That's why I think it's one of the better provisions, plus these positive ones that I've listed before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81513	Thank you. Next individual debate, distinguished colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81514	Honorable President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistants. A key question, which we must ask, when we talk about this law, is Croatia a modern state? I believe that a large part of our sovereignty with this law has been passed on to some other bodies, which are not in Croatia's jurisdiction. We all know when we entered the EU, that we transferred one of our large parts of sovereignty to EU bodies. However, this is one law that, I'll say, here, perhaps at least we'll say suspect. What's this about? We have listed here all digital services and competent authorities in the Republic of Croatia concerning this law, and we have not listed any competent body, not one service of all those providers, all those service providers, which are not located in the Republic of Croatia. Or in other words, anyone, anyone, can open, anywhere in the world, any social network, provide any service to this guy, not to the laws of the Republic of Croatia. Not to answer this law and it's about the Cybersecurity Act. The best example we had last year, about half a year ago, when that unfortunate incident happened, that is, a tragedy with our General Praljko, when we had, and haven't stopped yet, I have to say, the thing about ruthless strokes on social networks, on all those who didn't even mention the name of General Praljko. These blows did not come from Croatia, but came from some other countries, we know very well today, but the Croatian institutions have not shown themselves to this day. I sent a letter to SOA, to the Ministry of the Interior and to the National Security Council, except for that conversation, which was given to me by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, we have no information about these cyber attacks, the unprecedented intensity in the Republic of Croatia, or, we do not know who started them, we do not know who was the employer, and the damage is enormous. And then we pass a law regarding exclusively the service provider, which is registered at the order of the Republic of Croatia. And we don't say a word about it, here, I'm going to pick a specific Facebook and Mr. Zuckerberg whose headquarters isn't in the Republic of Croatia. He can still do whatever he wants and doesn't answer to anyone. A colleague of Petrijevcanin spoke of the damage that is happening, so she said, she said 400 billion euros at the annual level, I agree, this law will partially compensate for that damage, i.e. prevent damage. However, as for taxes, all these providers, precisely these services, do not pay a dime in the Croatian state budget. Not a single lip. And they're just the dominants, they're the main ones, they're not Croatian providers, they're the ones outside Croatia. And now here we are passing a law on service providers, from the territory of Croatia, which actually does not exist, because we know that all social networks, which today are a channel from which 60% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia receive information, located, registered in some foreign countries, and these do not concern this. I'll repeat, 60% of the people of the Republic of Croatia, today they're getting information from social networks, it's no longer working, it's not television anymore, it's not press, and we've forgotten them mentioned in this law. And then I wonder why this law in the first place? Who are we doing this for? To control ourselves. And then if we saw any irregularities that I pointed to, I say half a year ago, then your procedure is next, we address the European Commission, the European Commission to the country where the provider is located, and then eventually we solve this problem or we don't solve it. I'll say we don't solve it because we have an obvious example all these months that the problem hasn't been solved. And today Facebook pages, Instagram profiles and numerous other social networks are under constant attacks of well-organised groups that are mainly located I will say with certainty great, outside of Croatia. And our institutions, unfortunately I'm going to say don't react in an adequate way. I will also refer to the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which cites cybernetic and hybrid action as an exceptional danger. And when we talk about national security, we must not ignore the threats that are coming out of the country, we cannot speak and control only what is happening within our borders because the attacks do not come from our country. I will not vote for this law personally, for these very reasons, even though there are good provisions in it. It goes on to say in this term, which is stated here, "The national cybersecurity strategy is a framework that provides strategic objectives and priorities for cyber security at national level," but protecting national levels is not only protection within borders because these actions come and you know it can come from anywhere. Someone from Hawaii or Siberia right now could be a cybernetic threat to the Republic of Croatia, and we don't define that by this law. So I will repeat, the law, although there are good provisions in it, the law does not solve key problems, and the key problem is protecting the cyberspace of the Republic of Croatia, and it is not threatened, I will repeat, by those who provide services in the Republic of Croatia but by those who provide these services outside the Republic of Croatia. And we cannot have any effect on solving this problem with this law. And I'm going to repeat that thing from a little while ago, I'm terribly bothered that after half a year of the institution, I'm going to repeat which SOA, the MUP and the National Security Council have not answered my parliamentary question, half a year, half a year, and it's hundreds of thousands of cyber attacks on the hybrid action of unprecedented proportions, and everyone is silent. That's inadmissible, that's inadmissible. And it is only a matter of the moment when those who are currently operating in Croatia will hit the institutions of the Croatian state. It will not be some representative of some small party HRAST, perhaps not so small anymore, but it may be the president of the parliament, may be the prime minister, may be a minister, may be Minister Bozinovic, then whether institutions will start doing their job when we, for example. Is HRT threatened or are we going to pass laws that don't solve the problem?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81515	We've got three replicas, the first one's a respected colleague of Kirin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81516	Dear President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. Dear Representative Zekanovic. I listened carefully, and I partially understood what you said or what you wanted to say. The information system is our reality, modern economic, scientific, security, etc. The system could not function without a well-implemented information system. My question is what do you think of hackerry, the notion of white hat hackers and black hat hackers? Do you know that black hat hackers are the ones who are either black hat hackers who steal information, sell it to them or organisations on the black market, industrial shaionage, etc.? White hat hackers are the ones who do perfectly legal work, they try to fix and secure the system. Tell me the latest event The young man from Zapresic. [[The incursion of the president: colleague Kirin has expired.]] Is he a hacker or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81517	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81518	Dear colleague Kirin, I fully agree with you. There are levels of forms of cybernetic activity, but what I wanted to point out through my debate is that we are no longer a modern state, that if we want to take care of our sovereignty, protect our space adequately that we must send a letter or ask our friends from the commission to help us. So we're not able to pass a law that will protect cyberspace. But this isn't a big deal, people are just meeting up with this terminology. It's about the key things because you've just been on the phone, here's a colleague on the computer, and this signal from this session is being transmitted that way, and we're not protecting this institution or you or us as individuals with this law because cyber attacks don't come from Croatia, they come from outside Croatia, and that's why there's evidence, but here's the institution still haven't responded.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81519	Second replica, dear colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81520	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Zekanovic. Of course, I understand your fear, but I don't understand a few terms. You mention sovereignty that we give up one part of sovereignty which is a little bit contradictory to what you're saying if I understood correctly, you would control what's happening in other countries and we would prescribe it by law. It is clear that if someone provides services in other countries that it is not the subject of the Republic of Croatia, and if someone in the Republic of Croatia even if they say so in the virtual world, then it is and then we solve it by this law. So the termology of sovereignty, and if we look at general security, I think it's quite contradictory of what you're saying because, under the auspices of the EU, the European Commission is just getting more security, more protection from such attacks on a wider scale than being singled out, then we wouldn't be part of any family, Europol or anything else. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81521	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81522	My dear colleague, you've asked me a very nice question, thank you for that. First of all, as far as these attacks are concerned, they're escalating, so this topic is only today current because before these attacks there were no. Another thing, as far as company registration is concerned, it is a key thing, we could pass this legislation to social networks operating in Croatia that must be registered in the Republic of Croatia. And we solved the problem. And then Facebook or any social network wouldn't be able to do what it does, and that's what some countries did. That's what some countries did. For example. There is no Facebook in Russia. I am not to ban Facebook to understand, to understand, Mrs. Pusic please be a little quieter, I am not for that, but I am to protect our space in this way, that the companies that work in the Republic of Croatia are registered. And at the end of the day, colleagues, of course we're losing our sovereignty. The moment we transfer power with national legislation to international institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81523	Let's go, fellow Sokol, you're 3. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81524	Thank you very much. Well, actually, I was on to what was said. So if you have some kind of multinational company based in America or who knows where, how are you going to sanction it for some behavior that you consider contrary to Croatian law only from the perspective of Croatia? So you must have some kind of multilateral and bilateral at least cooperation. So the European legal framework and beyond, means contracts with the United States and with other countries. And the alternative, I say, to do something like China, that means blocking servers, etc., I don't know how real this is in this situation. So if you've shown something to this debate it's precisely that we need more multilateral bargaining means at the world level to get everyone into that one system. And that is one of the reasons why some of the countries we mentioned do not want to conclude bilateral agreements with the EU on the subject. And the other thing about the attacks and those where they came from, etc., on this particular subject of General Praljko, so I think the whole thing started, which some of Croatia reported some jobs and piled up and sent it to Facebook, and then there were blockades, etc. So I don't think it's just an answer to what's on the outside, but it's also that inner factor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81525	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81526	An esteemed colleague, of course, is that I am in favour of co-operation with all international institutions and European and those who work at the level of the whole world. Of course it is, and I'm not up for a ban like you mentioned. in China or Russia. However, if we are speaking and we are Croatian representatives and we are talking about the security of our country and there is no excuse, we cannot say that we must cooperate. So our imperative is the only thing that we, as agents in this House, have to run is national security. Well, there's no excuse to say, so we need to talk to the world, we need to be with the European Commission in good relations because it's our job and we've been elected to this House to be the guardians of our country's sovereignty. And that's where the story stops. And as for the attacks you mentioned, there were, of course, within the state and you didn't, and we don't know who did them and there were many more out there, I know for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81527	Thank you. Let's move on with the individual debate. Dear colleague Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81528	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. It is therefore in front of us in the first reading of the proposal for a cybersecurity law for key services operators and digital service providers. It is, therefore, a framework that is absolutely necessary in the Republic and it seems to me that and we are a little late here, that we should have done it before. And we need that frame. A decade ago, I had a chance to read a book, an Australian architect who spoke about the city of the future, about how the cities of the 21st century would be planned. And then she actually said that there would be no more trade in these cities, that there would be no more, that all services would actually be different, certain. And then as the book went on, there was danger... That. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I, after reading a book that was quite interesting, started just because of city planning, sort of concluded and said, so in my lifetime it won't be, so maybe it'll develop and something else. But 10 years later, I have to say that what I read in that book was reality. Look at it at all, so we're all on certain networks, we all use certain services, you can come, here we have even enough colleagues, looking for a service, now it's a nice time, a cosmetologist, someone in Zagreb. The second day you open your Google again something and you will at least 10, 15 images go out where you are offered these services. So someone saw exactly what you're doing, how you're doing, and now they're offering you all kinds of services. And it's the world of reality that we live in. We can't close our eyes on that fact, and we can't close our eyes on the world where actually that unreal world that we, through all the possible networks and all the fine nets that are intertwined with, is our world of reality where we live, is as public as we put it and which can be used not only because someone is going to offer us these cosmetic services that I've been telling us what was a good example but also some other things. What happened with cambridge analysis, my people, so it happens in the Republic of Croatia, just in some other measure and in some small measure. So, equally, very simple and skillful data can be found about all of us who use HEP service, for and through HEP we actually get electricity, that is what we use. Only someone who will take all our data from HEP where the name and last name, where the OIB is, can use it in connection with the general definition of one political scene in Croatia, defining who to vote for in the next election. So it's reality and it's reality. To return to what is the subject, the subject is this law and we need this law and it is good that we should, I have asked the Secretary of State in the sense of a regulation which, i.e. a sublegal act directly attached to this law and it is good that it has not chosen that methodology to amend all other laws. But you should know it, you should absolutely know everything about them, and then the topic is implementation. So we have a lot of good laws that are well-defined and then where do we kick? We're getting high on implementation because when we bring it in, we put it in a drawer and forget about it until certain situations. I must admit that in my professional life I met with a number of things, very early in the design process they started using different computer programs. Today, children who start writing architecture draw only on the 1st semester. To get the context of how the world changes. I was the last generation that, or the first generation that didn't use... When I say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't even know what it is, that's what it was before the calculator. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know about him because I didn't have to use him, so that's something before the calculator went. I finished my entire college drawing. Today, children have only the art of drawing and drawing the 1st semester, behind it do all the computer programs. The first hack I met, or first theft, was stealing computer programs. So on the Croatian market came computer design programs, started designing in these programs, and then the theft started, and that's stealing your project. So that's when I first met at all what it means and saw the danger, so on the one hand, and you really need to get information, you need to read all the information, you need to really use everything that is but on the other hand, the danger, and in that sense this law is important. However, people who will work and implement and make sure that this law, so to protect themselves, should be around me, I would say the same type or the same educated or the same ones who are hackers because they are the only ones who understand each other and understand languages. You, if you have on the other hand, we have all the time examples, some young boys, today children before the first grade of primary school are computer-educated, not only are they educated in a way but they are taught and done by certain programs. It's a reality. So we need the law, we need the law because you have to have some legal framework, within that legal framework you have to move. Now, the point is, it's always the implementation, who's going to spend it, to be very flexible, to be here very fast. During the time, we have this law in the first reading, so he'll come into the second reading after the addition, so if we're very fast, we'll do it before summer, if we're a little slower, we'll have it in the fall, for that time in the world we live in at all, in the world of these changes will happen at least a series of changes and after Cambridge analysts that broke at the world level, some other analysts and another story will crack. So, let's go back to maybe the world of politics. There are still discussions as to how much the Russians really affected the election in America. How did they influence it? Of course not in those movies that we saw, the James Bond movies where there are some sleepers or some other movies and they sleep in America for 20 years, so suddenly they're doing something. By one world of cybernetics because it became a real world. Look at the way we live in this world. More and more people buy the line, more and more of their people don't know at all, the food orders home delivery, so more and more sits at home and actually works the way you rationally can't imagine, so one world of cybernetics, but there you actually open all your data. From that someone can see not only the data you can see from the OIB, you can see what kind of family you have, how many members there are, how you feed, how much money you're willing to spend, so, a series of things. So, we will really and through the debates, you see that we support it, and I think it's really the time of one law like this, but it's time in our heads and everything else we meet with the reality of the world we live in, to try to hire people who are going to implement it or who are going to lead it, to be the same kind of people that are skilled and turn it around because this law actually makes us think and to be faster in some real world because the real world goes past us. What we're not, that's why I was deliberately saying, a man when he talks about his experiences, then he can absolutely put himself in that context. So when I started studying, for us was range calculator. And the photocopier that helped you. Today at that same university, children are exclusively working on computers, and therefore absolutely projected differently, it's done differently, and that's why I purposely mentioned this book that was interesting to me in the way I think about developing cities without malls, that different ways, services are provided differently, but this shows the world in which we live and we show that this is our reality and that reality we need in an adequate way to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81529	Thank you. We only have one replica, respected colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81530	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you said this very likablely in order to say so, setting up the results on the search engine, so it asked me to come forward and I didn't want to report for a previous debate that confused pears and apples in this complex topic. But she also said the cobwebs she put out a series of inaccuracies. What you've noticed and brought out, in the cosmetic salon, is why, among other things, there was an open investigation in 2015 by the European Commission against Google for four things, and as I recall, one thing was sabotaging links to the shopping site of competitors, two things were proven to them, two things were not. Both Google and their company Alphabet had to pay 2.42 billion euros to the European Commission. So companies based in the United States must respect the business regulated by European law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81531	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81532	Thank you very much. Well, you know that siren call is always dangerous for you. And when before you someone discusses the way in which, then they always pull you back, to continue the debate, where the previous ones stopped, I decided to return the debate, right where the topic is, to return the debate, to the world in which we live. In a world where I, too, dare say, when I look at the difference, between me and my son, he absolutely lives in that other world, and for that you need to give an answer. So we in a peaceful world, we know how to answer, what we understand, what we recognize. But in this one world of cybernetics, in the world of all these events, there's something different. And indeed, when you enter reality, companies pay and damages and they will pay compensation and there is a lot, a lot more problems, than we are at this point and more ready and we can look at them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81533	Let's move on, now it's time for the final debate, the individual, the esteemed colleague Angelko Strick, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81534	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the secretary of state with their associates. The adoption of the law in question stems from the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, as members of the EU, for the adoption of the measure directive, for the high common safety of network and information systems, which was adopted on 6 July 2016 in national legislation. The Directive lays down the obligation of Member States to the same measures for high levels of cybersecurity, in the following sector, energy, electricity, oil, gas, transport, air, rail, water, road, banking, health sector, supply of drinking water and its distribution, digital infrastructure, exchange of Internet transport, domain services and control of the top national domain. The Directive, subject to the obligation to introduce technical and organisational risk management measures and measures to prevent the introduction into the minimum possible impact of incidents on the safety of network and information systems, introduces and undertakes information, on incidents which may have a significant impact on the provision of services. Although risks are focused, primarily on network and information systems, which support key services in selected sectors, i.e. digital services, incidents according to the definition contained in the Directive, cover the general scope of all categories of possible incidents, failures, accidents and attacks, which may have a negative impact on the safety of network information systems. Criteria for determining incidents that have a significant impact on delivery... the service, containing information on incidents with key service operators and digital service providers, the manner of delivery of information and other relevant issues for handling such notifications, is proposed to be regulated by sublegal regulations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the draft law, in order to fully transpose the directive into national legislation, provides for the adoption of a sublegal act, a regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The bill introduces the requirements set out as measures to achieve a high level of cybersecurity, key service operators and aimed at ensuring the continuity of the key services defined by the sector-specific directive in the Republic of Croatia. To this end, the draft law covers technical and organisational risk management measures as well as prevention measures, respecting the effects of incidents and also the obligation of systematic notification of incidents, their coordinated resolution at sectoral national and EU level. Subject measures and the development of an incident reporting obligation will be made closer to the aforementioned regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. by the implementing regulation of the Commission. In order to meet the fundamental purpose of the directive, i.e. to establish systematic coordination of all relevant stakeholders, as well as to develop awareness of possible threats in cyberspace, and to adequately manage risks and proportionate risks, protection measures are necessary under the Directive to provide for appropriate infringement provisions covering those entities which do not comply with the requirements of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81535	We do not have a replica, so we are now going to the closing statement, on behalf of the promoter, Honorable Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81536	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ma'am and gentlemen. I thank you all for this debate, for your comments and suggestions. We see that you are all together aware that there should be a synergy of action between the physical and virtual components of society's security. So this virtual, like you said, is getting more and more important. And be assured that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with all the authorities, is paying proper attention to that. The security of our citizens, our companies and our societies is, of course, the first priority of this government and we believe all other institutions that operate in the country. There's been a lot of talk about the protection and data and the fear of unauthorized use of this data, you'd have to say, just that this law, primarily, speaks about infrastructure, not content, so, and key emphasis, is given exactly on, infrastructure and its protection. I will repeat that since the adoption of cybersecurity strategies and the 2015-2016 Action Plan, a whole series of measures have been envisaged to raise awareness of the dangers and education of citizens, businesses and state bodies. Even here are some programmes, for example, of the Judicial Academy that are now being audited, that have a primary emphasis on education and awareness of the dangers in this new cyber world. All your remarks will be carefully considered, and because of these obligations that I highlighted as early as possible and then subsequently and in the regulation, our goal is to make sure that the final bill before you is still in this reading before the summer. Thank you very much for your participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81537	One is a replica of a respected colleague, Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81538	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates. I don't consider social networks cybernetics or information systems. It's just for me a more modern, more direct form of communication, they used to be messengers, so they were letters, so phones, etc. But I'm curious what you're doing about white hat and black hat hackers?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81539	Try something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81540	Same question again only to another person in this room. Any unauthorized entry into someone's system I don't consider desirable, it's punishable, and we know that there can be extremely great damage and I don't support hacking into anyone's data or breaking into someone's information systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81541	Thank you. This led us to the end of the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a cybersecurity law of operators of key services and digital service providers, first reading, P.Z. Number 320, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: ‘1. The proposal for a cybersecurity law for operators of key services and providers of digital services is hereby adopted and 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law." Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 76 votes, it was concluded that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81544	Your Honor, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. The entry, stay and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the 2011 Foreign Act with novels from 2013 and 2017. The proposed Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law is aligned with EU Directive 2016/801 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of researching studies, training, volunteering, exchange of students or educational projects and the conduct of OPR operations. This Directive should promote the Union as an attractive place for research and innovation and should improve its position in a global competition for gifted persons and thus lead to an increase in the overall competitiveness and growth rate of the Union while creating jobs that contribute to the growth of gross national income. All that is true for the EU, of course, is also true for the Republic of Croatia and the aim is that this implementation of this directive in our legislation will also have such effects that will lead to development, research, bring new young people into our country. So far in the Republic of Croatia we have a relatively small number of students and students, especially a small number of researchers who would see Croatia as a desirable destination. For example. Last 2017, 633 persons were registered in our country's education and study, and all 16 regulated their stay in Croatia for research purposes. This directive, which I have said, has replaced until then the current Directives of 2004 and 2005, which regulated the issue of the approval of students and researchers. This proposed law will improve the legislative framework for the regulation of residence and work for these categories of researchers, volunteers and trainees and the stay of students and students. The changes will allow for simpler regulation of their stay in Croatia and we hope to make Croatia a more desirable destination for these categories of persons. The amendments to the law will facilitate the mobility of researchers and students within the European Economic Area as well as the possibility of researchers and students working, at least partially during their stay in the Republic of Croatia. In order for the Republic of Croatia to be more attractive to third-country nationals who would like to carry out research activities with us, members of their families should be able to join them and benefit from mobility provisions within the EU. Therefore, these amendments to the Law stipulate that mobility is also used by members of the research family who have been authorised to stay in another Member State of the European Economic Area and who has come to the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of conducting research. Furthermore, the Law allows the researcher to regulate the stay for the purpose of seeking employment, i.e. for the establishment of a company or for the registration of crafts, after completion of the research and student after completion of the study. The adoption of the proposed text of the Law will allow researchers and students the same rights as Croatian citizens in relation to working conditions, including pay and termination of work contracts, as well as safety requirements in the place of work, freedom of trade union organisation and membership in the union or any professional organisation, the right to collective bargaining and collective bargaining, the right to general and vocational education, as well as recognition of educational and professional qualifications. Similarly, the proposed Law provides volunteers and students with the right to equal treatment in relation to access to goods and services, as well as the recognition of foreign educational and professional qualifications. Proposal for a Law in accordance with the Directive for the first time regulates the stay and work of trainees who have acquired qualifications in the level of higher education or who are studying in a third country, with the aim of obtaining a qualification of higher education that will participate in the training programme in the Republic of Croatia for the purpose of acquiring knowledge, practice, experience in the professional environment. The trainee will be able to regulate his status through a certificate of application for work up to 90 days or a residence permit and work outside the annual quota with a period of validity of up to 6 months, which will be able to extend the maximum of 6 months if necessary to complete the traineeship. In addition to these provisions resulting from the implementation of the Directive, more permanent amendments and additions have been introduced into the law. One of them refers to the fact that as a state, we are increasingly faced with the lack of workers, especially in some economic sectors, and this Law also allows for permits to stay and work outside the annual quota to be issued to third-country nationals by means of an agreement concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a country. These provisions will allow the application of the announced agreements with the BiH, Ukraine or other countries for which the need is indicated and which are a potential source of labour for our economy. The law also prescribes regulation of work outside the annual quota for third-country nationals who are specialised in Croatian health activities, in accordance with specific regulations. The law further redefines circumstances that may indicate the risk of avoiding the obligation to leave the European economic area for illegal migrants. Namely, a new definition of the risk of avoidance provides more ground for accommodation in the reception centre. Namely, the European Commission adopted a recommendation on 7 March 2017, which detailed the criteria for determining the risk of avoidance of the Return Directive, so that these provisions are implemented in our law, therefore, in line with the recommendation and the European Commission's manual. Dear MPs and MPs, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure, as it is the deadline for the notification of that Directive on 23 May 2018. So we still have relatively little time. After the adoption of the Law, it is also necessary to amend the 3 sublaws already in the high stage of production and will be adopted as soon as possible after the entry into force of this Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81545	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Katic, for the explanation of this proposal for the final law. We have a few replicas. The first replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81546	... The Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Law on Foreigners and obtaining permanent residence or citizenship, there is a clear law. [[The speaker didn't turn on the microphone, you can't hear it.]] [[/Intruder Brkić: Please get involved, my colleague. Dear colleague Kirin, please engage. Thank you.]] Especially the proposed new law. We can think about foreigners in the light of the great emigration of Croats, so that against the necrotics closer to the majority people and significantly not leading to major earthquakes in the involvement of co-existence in the community, they should be less restrictive, perhaps more tolerated. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81547	Thank you, dear colleague Kirina. You want to answer? Answer, Secretary of State Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81548	Mr. Chairman-in-Office, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, each country makes its own immigration policy and decides what needs its labour market. Most of the countries when deciding which work is needed, which workforce attracts, include knowledge of the language of the country concerned and some civilizational closeness, of course, along with professional and labour qualifications, are primarily about employees. Therefore, our country can conclude such an immigration policy, but it can also conclude agreements, bilateral agreements with targeted countries, and this is the government of the Republic of Croatia and preparation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81549	I thank Mr. Katic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81550	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, so I come from a higher education system so I know it's a procedure if you want to bring a student from outside to exchange from a third country or a researcher or a guest... I'm telling you this openly, it's very complicated and there's a lot of discrepancies and there's a lot of problems so I'm glad that this law is passed, it's certainly going to help simplify the procedure for third-country nationals like the United States, China, India, etc., that's very good, I'm going to talk about it in an individual debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would ask you, given the specificities of the system of higher education, the specificities of researchers' working relationships, PhDs, etc., what is your cooperation with the Ministry of Science and Education in defining some normative solutions and also with institutions from higher education, universities, higher schools, etc., because I think that if you hear their perspective that you may be able to simplify some of these procedures and adapt them to more real life than they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81551	I thank my colleague Sokol. The answer to your honorary secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81552	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Representative, certainly cooperation between the MUP, which approves residence and work permits and the Ministry of Science and Education, is crucial and we have worked together in these changes. Knowing the rules would make it much easier to regulate the presence and work of researchers so far, and therefore any scientific or higher school institution would do well to, and we will inform when this law is passed, to prepare and to explain to researchers and students to whom to address and how it can regulate the stay in the Republic. And these categories that this law speaks of are essential for every society that wants to develop, and we will favour this group in addition to the implementation of this directive in the Foreign Law, and in the case of amendments and additions to the Law on Croatian Citizenship, which are also being prepared, in one provision we will favour this group that, if he wishes, after completing his studies in the Republic of Croatia, he can obtain Croatian citizenship under more favourable conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81553	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. The next replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81554	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. My question, since you mentioned earlier, when will the migration policy of the Republic of Croatia be adopted and the second question is why did you not say a word in your opening statement about the public consultation in which all the proposals of NGOs were rejected from the beginning to the end, precisely regarding human rights violations?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81555	I thank my colleague Ostojić. Secretary of State Katic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81556	Dear Mr. Representative, there is currently no obligation under the applicable law to adopt a migration policy, although migration policy is certainly something that gives guidance and facilitates the arrival of people and facilitates the economy to gain the necessary workforce. As regards e-consultation, as you know, certain comments may be accepted, certain objections are not accepted, in this case the comments are not accepted because they were, in general, not subject to the amendment and amendment proposal but rather to the current text of the Foreigning Act which has not been amended. Just to point out that the government's legislative plan for the Republic of Croatia provides that the entire Foreigning Law will be passed or proposed to this Visko home in the last quarter of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81557	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81558	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. Discussing this subject is impossible, not touching migrants and crisis with migrants. It was the biggest crisis since the Homeland War when more than 660,000 migrants passed over Croatia, we must stress here that the Croatian police are the so-called police. The MUP did a great job on this whole crisis situation. However, today we learn from newspapers that little or no police have come across migrant smugglers, so does this issue still presently mean whether or not the threat of RS migrants is current? I think we're all aware that there are between 3.5 million and 4 million Turkish migrant refugees in Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81559	Thank you, fellow Striker. Secretary of State Katic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81560	Dear Mr. Representative, illegal migration is certainly a threat to the security of each country, in this case since the Republic of Croatia is on immigration routes and, of course, to the overall security of the EU. The Ministry of Police shall monitor the situation closely and implement all measures provided for in European and national legislation. The number of migrants has been growing slightly but has not grown significantly compared to last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81561	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply. Before continuing, the gallery was joined by students and students of the Antun Gustav-Matoš High School from Zabok and the Private Sports Language School Franjo Bučar from Zagreb, as well as their professors and professors, and I warmly welcome them and welcome them. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? [[Applause]] No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81562	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with his associates. We are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners coming from the Department of the Interior, and it is also about the work of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Economy. We are passing the foreign law by an urgent procedure, as we heard from the secretary of state, in order to comply with EU directives and the deadline that binds us. However, if it were not for the up-to-date of this issue and the Foreign Law, it would be necessary in the Republic of Croatia in view of the migration crisis, but also in view of the chronic lack of the workforce of young, educated and qualified people for certain jobs that we are particularly facing as a highly tourist country. The necessary changes are this law and will allow for the regulation of the stay and work of researchers, students, trainees, volunteers, students, as prescribed by the European directives, and for the sake of the growing needs of these foreign citizens' stays, as well as the fact of the accession of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to European agreements, institutions. The amendments and additions of this law will facilitate the regulation of not only their stay but also their work in the Republic of Croatia. The government has already specifically amended the status of Croats without Croatian citizenship that are not considered foreigners within the meaning of this Act and their rights are established in accordance with the law on the relationship of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. As the Secretary of State said in 2017, 633 people regulated a temporary stay for the purpose of schooling but only 16 of them for the purpose of their research work. Croatia becomes attractive to all researchers, volunteers, students, and opens the possibility of the same to work during its stay in the Republic of Croatia. So far, the directives that we have had and in the provisions of our 2011 Law have seen shortcomings that particularly concern the acceptance of the right to access safeguard measures, the access of students to the labour market during their studies and the provisions on EU mobility. So, of course, improvements are also considered necessary for categories, third-country nationals. We ourselves are witnesses and that almost a week in the Assembly we bring certain agreements, agreements, conventions that oblige us to co-operate with third countries. It should be pointed out that these amendments and additions facilitate and regulate the status of students arriving in Croatia for secondary education and who, in accordance with the law, can then participate in a recognised, state or regional, educational programme in the context of a student exchange programme or in an educational project run by an educational institution in accordance with a specific regulation, not only in a recognised exchange programme approved by the competent ministry. This bill also reminds us of the fact and therefore also concerns the Ministry of Education and all this data that we read daily that in Croatia today only a little more than 17% of the population of 19 years of age is highly educated. And of course the intensity of this law is that Croatia attracts as many highly educated people as possible who are interested, of course, to work here in their research projects and, of course, the new Law on Citizenship will regulate the Ministry of Interior and their status. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law by emergency procedure, especially because Croatia faces a chronic lack of workers, especially in certain sectors of the economy, as I said earlier, and therefore allows for permits to stay and work outside the annual quota to be issued to third-country nationals and based on an agreement concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia with third countries. In particular, it also refers to the application of the agreement with BiH and Ukraine, other countries of course seen in Croatia as potential labour markets and qualified people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81563	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanja Putici for this debate. The next debate is on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81564	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State with your associates and associate. The Act on Foreigners which regulates the area of entry, stay and work of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia was adopted on 1 January 2012, amended in 2013, 2017. I'm mentioning this for the reason that already and then was an opportunity not to get into this situation to actually intervene at the last minute in... nor risk the EU's punishment and not having a formal infringement of EU law or good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that perhaps much more important than regulation of working legal status is the issue of secondary education, encouragement, attractiveness for foreign students, students etc. To say that there are certain provisions here that absolutely affect human rights. And I will first of all focus on that part and it will be explained and these are the reasons why we will not support the laws, amendments and additions of the Foreign Law. I speak for the SDP club. Before long, I asked about migration policy, a very important question, but to help you, Secretary of State, since you were either not informed or not told, the Government of the Republic of Croatia refused to adopt a new migration policy, we had it properly written from 2013 to 2015 that it would not be adopted. So much for how worried we are about how to solve the issue. I would just remind myself that this migration policy right now regulates the burning issues that we have at the moment, which is how to stay young in Croatia, how to encourage it to be attractive for our fellow citizens, our students and students, and not that we are now trying to make up for all those jobs for which our people are leaving. And that's why from the former 394, 395, 398 thousand if you remember those numerators that were on the number of unemployed, today it could be somewhere at 200,000 because so many in the meantime went looking for a job elsewhere, they found attractiveness in Ireland and in other positions, and the reason is very simple. They're underpaid here, they don't have quality conditions, and that's why these people are leaving or why there are no incentive measures that would be taken through such a migration policy. I would say one more thing, and that is the question of our diaspora or people living outside, encouraging the descendants of the diaspora that were regulated to encourage their arrival in the Republic and that is the Government of the Republic of Croatia by refusing migration policy. I mention this in the context that this law on foreigners that contains part of the positive provisions about how it regulates the status of students hides one far more important thing, and that is another thing that you mentioned earlier and you did not inform us exactly. It is not true that NGOs in public consultation have made objections to the existing law, so I will read exactly what it means for amendments to apply to Article 3 of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on Foreigners which regulates their amendments, which is to amend, amend and delete the word without reasoning. They explained this for reasons why the inability of a stranger to learn the reasons why the Republic of Croatia declares him a security threat puts that person in an unequal position to defend against the charges brought. It opens the possibility of arbitration in assessing whether or not it poses a threat to national security. In 1996, the Constitutional Court abolished some of the provisions of Article 209. The law on administrative proceedings in the part which prescribed the possibility that the reasons should not be stated in a solution when it is explicitly provided for in the law or regulation in the public interest. According to the Constitutional Court's assessment, the reasoning of a particular solution strengthens the principle of legality and acts against possible arbitraryness. It is best to determine whether the body has just been governed by the principle of legality and acted in the same way during the conduct of the procedure. The Constitutional Court also repealed the provisions of Article 26. The law on Croatian citizenship since 1993, which prescribed that the rationale of the solution to the refusal of the application for citizenship should not state the reasons for the refusal of the application. Already in that decision, the Constitutional Court found that by implementing constitutional guarantees, noting constitutional guarantees of appeal and controlling the legality of individual acts, administrative authorities, the Administrative Court is unable to carry out its duties during the administrative dispute unless the solution contains a valid argument. That you avoided answering, that's not good. The truth is next, and that is to just hurt what may be most important in the basic act written, and that is that everyone has the right to an explanation and, of course, to a second degree appeal for that solution. The fact that it challenges the right to an effective legal remedy. What I believe, and it is clear that European law, European practice, and certainly all those judgments that come to us from the European Court of Justice prove that this amendment has been fully correct. I believe it will be found at the remarks of this law. In Article 4 of the Law amending and supplementing the Foreign Law, it is also proposed to amend it in a way that adds a word to the word for reasons of refusal, and to add words to the wording, and to delete the wording, without hearing the stranger. The very fact that someone is not taking part in the process of refusing entry of third-country nationals should be brought into line with the Schengen Borders Act because Article 14. The Schengen Borders Act provides that the application of the provisions for refusal to enter must not prejudice the application of specific provisions... name and international protection and the issue of long-term visas. Therefore, this is what we avoid and respect for the existing law which, of course, are our obligation. A sentence in which a solution is made without a stranger’s hearing speaks only about himself in the way we treat it. So I repeat, all of this attractively is actually a cover in which these articles refuse the ability to change and fix things. Also, members of the family of persons who have achieved international protection do not often have travel documents on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, some of them staying in refugee camps outside the country of origin in their own countries of origin cannot be addressed because of the danger of persecution. In these cases, temporary stay was also to be approved for the purpose of family integration and subsequently issued a travel document for the purpose of arriving and entering the Republic of Croatia. In Article 27, which proposes an amendment in such a way that the person who does not have sufficient financial resources and does not have the necessary accommodation to delete and to ensure that this lack of financial resources and accommodation by nature of things cannot represent a circumstance that indicates the existence of a risk of leaving the country. The confiscation of freedom should always be the last measure, and the question of justification, necessity and proportionality of those mentioned in the law is raised. As for other endangered groups, such as victims of human trafficking, who often have to give false information about their own identity or use forged documents, all to protect their identity or also flee from countries where there is a risk of persecution and protect themselves from persons who abuse and exploit it, must not be threatened in a civilized, democratic country that has reached high EU standards, so it would be unjust to deprive such persons of freedom. This, in my opinion, is very important and the fact is that we don't need to defend ourselves with these bureaucratic systems. It is important to me that just as we are making amendments to the Law, take advantage of the opportunity and these things to be repaired because we are risking additional situations which, of course, will be protected from European institutions and unfortunately, we will again be in a position to witness that and what is not acceptable under our Constitution must also be ensured by these legal solutions. For this reason, I suggest you accept the amendments that will be proposed to you, so that we can come to a situation if that is done, of course we will support it. If not, we will be against passing such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81565	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ranka Ostojić. Next debate, on behalf of GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. These are amendments and additions to the Law on Foreigners relating to a very specific category of foreigners, let's say that people who are not citizens of either the Republic of Croatia, any of the EU members, and here it is stressed that they also refer to citizens, so Norway and Switzerland, right? Therefore, countries that are members of the European Economic Area but are not members of the EU. It's also Iceland, and it's probably going to be, I don't know if it's going to be Britain, we'll see how BREXIT talks end. But, of course, the bigger question is so-called. a citizen, namely a citizen of the so-called third countries, therefore, which are entirely outside these categories, either the European economic space of either the EU or the Republic of Croatia. The first question to be asked is compliance with the Schengen rules. So let me just say it again. The law does not apply to all foreigners, but to those who come to do research, students, students, trainees and volunteers, if I counted exactly all categories. So, the people we are basically interested in coming to them as much as possible, at the end of our education as possible and staying in the Republic of Croatia and not only because these people and this profile of people need us, but because it is known that depending on the number of people who deal with this type of activity, so, science, education, some very professional jobs, depending on how critical the mass is, then you develop the conditions in which our people are more likely to stay. So, in which our young people who are engaged in one of these activities will have larger research teams, more people who deal with these specific jobs, through this will be a larger profile and potentially qualify for better funding and through this, of course, create a positive atmosphere for staying and our own, primarily young scientists, or people who want to be educated in that direction. So it is double Croatian interest to stimulate this type of people's arrival in Croatia, precisely this profile, and this type of interest. The first question, of course, is compliance with the Schengen rules, and in the first place the rules relating to asylum regulation. So, people looking for asylum, we've had the opportunity to see right in Syrian refugees, especially in that first wave where there were a large number of people that we might actually want to stay here, so people with higher education, people who would really welcome in every aspect of our economy and in society, given the profile and education, but they didn't meet the whole series of these conditions that are mentioned here because they were simply refugees. Therefore, this very fact is de facto for people who will and can potentially engage in research or education in the Republic of Croatia, but such conflict and extreme situations as refugees are coming as being excluded from the possibility that, according to these rules here, they begin to work either in scientific work or are being educated in the Republic of Croatia. I think that part really needs to be reconsidered. In those criteria that are mentioned, therefore, the second problem that we see in GLAS and HSU with this Act is the criteria that are mentioned as valid for the rejection of someone's request for stay in the Republic of Croatia, whether temporary or in the longer term, depending on the type of activity it is the last indent in that article that says, that's what I mean. 3. which says, if they pose a threat to national security, health etc. Since there are no clearly defined criteria there, it kind of cancels all of those clearly defined criteria in the first, I mean four points that are mentioned, because it puts a space of arbitration. So, does anyone represent, does not define what it means, does it mean that he's known to the police, that he's wanted by the police? Therefore, there are no clear criteria, which means that it poses a danger and through this de facto leaves room for a competent official to determine by some own determination who represents and who does not pose a danger to national security. Here I agree with my colleague Ostojic, who said in his presentation that there is an additional difficulty not asking for an explanation. Therefore, a person who has been refused a request for stay for this particular purpose, therefore, research, study, school, traineeship, volunteering, does not get an explanation of why it is or has been denied a stay, thus neither is it spoken to. Therefore, this further introduces the element of arbitration, i.e. the accidental judgment of the individual concerned, and in some ways undoes the good changes and the good qualities that this legislative proposal carries and which publicly states that it represents, which is to increase mobility and attract people who, for precisely these 5 reasons, want to come to the Republic of Croatia for the reasons mentioned in the Law. The mobility is usually, I would say the main one, and it seemed to me, and then when it was discussed, so, I don't know, in the early 2000s, it always seemed to me that the main advantages of the Bologna model were studied with all the difficulties, all the disadvantages that this model has. The fact that it increases or opens up mobility space for both students and professors or teachers at higher education institutions is because plus. Science and higher education are subject-free. So it is very, very important that people have insight into this type of activity as widely as possible, as far as possible in a number of scientific institutions and that fact that it opened up as a possibility was the main advantage of this model of study. Unfortunately, it wasn't used too much. Especially not used in that possibility for foreign professors and foreign students to come to us. So that they teach or listen to classes at our higher education institutions, and this law should contribute to that. There is an additional problem that also makes it difficult to mobilise or stimulate people, foreigners to come to the Republic of Croatia on these very activities that are regulated by this law, which is that this increases parallel to the arrival of foreign companies. So with a decision by foreign companies to establish their headquarters exactly in the Republic of Croatia. With this comes experts, comes people from professions that are interesting to us and that we want to develop ourselves, but in order to make it possible, we need to come very intensively into this procedure to avoid double taxation. As long as we have a lack of contracts to avoid double taxation, especially with us interesting countries, developed countries, countries with strong institutions of higher education, countries with companies dealing with IT and high technology, so far these companies will not find interest in coming to the Republic of Croatia. It's a lot of governments have worked on these topics. Let's say, I remember that one of the countries with which we achieved it is India which is very interesting in this respect and in the meantime some, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, some investments from India to the Republic of Croatia, but there are a whole series of countries with which we don't have such contracts, third countries to say so, and that's something that would have to follow a law like this in order for it to be implemented at all. This kind of amendment of the Law is not only about attracting foreigners, but also about opening jobs for which high qualifications and modern education are needed and for our people. They always co-operate with high-tech companies, always working with universities because they need young people from these universities, and on the other hand they need very specific education profiles, modernising education at our higher universities, therefore, universities, and that's especially interesting because the profit that we can make from that. So, the GLAS and HSU Club will, in that sense, take these elements that I have listed as problematic, some of which we can't solve with amendments, we simply have to solve by teasing other laws, which I think would be important. But what we could possibly fix with the amendments we're going to propose these amendments and hopefully they'll be accepted, in which case we'll support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81567	Thank you, dear colleague Vesni Pusic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81568	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So as far as the law is concerned, the proposal to amend and supplement the Foreign Law will support the proposed amendments. In fact, what we heard earlier in the debates, above all, the focus of these changes is precisely the mobility of people, so also the person when we speak generally to foreigners and persons from third countries and persons from the European economic before the belt, now space. Namely, when we talk about education, about studying, about scientific work, about research, about mobility. And there's one and these changes, so that actually enables it, improves that mobility and makes it more accessible, the market, let's market for work on the scientific contribution itself, but certainly this education. And in fact, in one way, it has its own economic aspect. In fact, we know that the potential of this and the arrival of highly educated, qualified people here can certainly contribute to our economy, development, above all, research. Of course, through certain economic cooperation with the countries of origin around them would return to their countries of origin, of course, and economic diplomacy, there can certainly be much better exploited and in a much better way present both our country and the people who worked here, but above all and all their knowledge and experience from these countries bring here. So this is what we can certainly use and in this direction certainly this law gives an additional incentive. What we can all still compare is and here's the other day CERN's Commission, the world's largest research laboratory, is here to consider Croatia as an associate member who should become this next year, surely and these changes will go in this direction to enable us to open up a research and development fund, that our companies can co-operate with CERN, so I think that this European Nuclear Research Centre, I think it's the same good link in which the provisions of this law can be directly applied, which means both for our people and our economy. Of course, even here, there is little distinction between the concept of third-country nationals and foreigners, i.e. citizens of the European Economic Area. It's absolutely the same thing that needs to be clarified. And I think my colleague Pusic has actually quite well defined before me who that applies to. And that we here must certainly watch out for what is a great bogeyman and probably in public are the parts of this law which are mildly touched by the possibility of allowing to stay and work to be issued to third-country nationals on the basis of an agreement that the Government of the Republic of Croatia concludes with those third countries, so here we are no longer talking about mobility in terms of education, study, scientific research, etc., but generally workers under certain conditions. We know that precisely because under the agreement that this is a good fence, however, I think the best migration policy is actually a smart economic policy. We are aware of the departure of our people outside Croatia, which opens up the natural need for labour. We're also aware that these people wouldn't go if we had a well-paid job here. Of course, it's always something that needs to be well balanced because we can't impose our high-paying economies on the law, because most of them would stop, not find economic profitability and stop working, so we would lose an additional portion of the funds. Of course, we can't and can't be unaware of our environment and the possibility of being poor and inadequate and migratory and, above all, economic policy comes to the shift of the population, that people who have higher abilities and greater opportunities and creation of added value come to us and that people who are willing to work for less money, I think we must always be open to and the labour market but also have a smart, natural migration policy that all those who give added value and that with this law also opens up the possibility because when we talk about mobility, especially in higher education, in general, in education, studies and research, then these are people who can certainly mean added value, so this part certainly can't be looked at separately and watched without a single economic ad let us say so. Because we must be aware that both mobility and the labour market and EU entry have dramatically changed to what we have been used to and what we have been doing for years. Of course, we too must be prepared and accept these challenges, both when we leave and, above all, at the arrival of our workers or other workers. So there is also a good balance, protecting the economy, enabling labour, and at the same time adequately, means the economy... can adequately pay our workers because we now see that this is regulated by the labour market, that workers can not be found and that is now auctioned with wages for working in tourism. Here what has been prescribed and which has thus been touched that for a longer 90-day stay, a permit can be obtained, which I welcome, but based on the government's treaty, based on reciprocity, therefore not on itself. So there is still the right to conduct a smart and systematic migration policy. I say smart because we must not be excluded on either side, and we must always keep the balance between maintaining economic operators and the economy itself and the need for labour, of course, and that this workforce is adequately paid, that our people stay here and work honestly and contribute to development. So, in conclusion, I think that most of what this law refers to will contribute precisely to the development of the economy itself and mobility, and we will certainly have to look for further solutions in migration policy, but first of all put emphasis on the smart economic policy that will give rise to this migration framework. And lastly, I repeat once again that the HNS Club will support this amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81569	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81570	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my only one, so I promise I won't be too long. However, I am very pleased that we have these amendments and additions to the Foreign Law here before us, especially as their basic focus is, and their fundamental purpose is to facilitate mobility in the higher education system. And here I disagree with my colleague Ostojić that this part of the law is less important than he said, I think that part is crucial and I just think that here in the Croatian Parliament we should talk more about education, put more emphasis on education, give it more importance all together. Anyway, why is education important? So it is the key to development, we all know, it is also mentioned in our strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia, and for the development of this same education for a small open economy and for a country like Croatia, two things are key, meaning investment in research and development and mobility. So that's where I even agree with my colleague Pusic, amazing but true, which is that really our education system can't function without this inflow of quality knowledge, quality people, researchers, students from other countries and, in fact, if quality teachers, researchers, teachers from other countries come to Croatia to teach, conduct projects, etc., it is very possible that many of our students who would otherwise listen to them in other countries might stay in Croatia for that very reason. And that's why I think these amendments to the law are good, that they should not be looked at contrary to this story by Croatian citizens abroad. This is certainly a problem, but I think these amendments and amendments to the law, harmonising with the directive, also in a way indirectly contribute to reducing this drain. Here are particularly important third countries, so this law concerns third countries but third countries are not negligible, specifically the country that has the most higher education institutions on all these lists in the first 10 are the United States which are one of those third countries. And facilitating scientific and educational exchange with the United States and not only with them, but with China, India and the like. are something that can only enrich our higher education system. But I would concentrate on several articles of the law that I think will make a great contribution to this whole mobility story that I mentioned. This is Article 8, so Article 8 allows students to spend up to 360 days, meaning they are on a stay for up to a year studying in the Republic of Croatia, allowing a stay without having to pass the entire application procedure of a temporary stay. I think it's a good provision, I think it's life, because most of the students who come and come are either six months or a year. And just by allowing them to stay for a year without having to pass all these possible procedures and formalities and what will make their stay very easier and stimulate them to arrive in the Republic of Croatia. He would also mention Article 9 concerning researchers. So for researchers, this law allows up to 180 days, so up to 6 months they can stay in Croatia without having to report a temporary stay. I think that provision is also good, it's also living because most of the projects and guest stays of foreign teachers and scientists are currently up to six months old. So if you need to do a joint project with our scientific institutions in the Republic of Croatia such as the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, the Medical Faculty or the like, it is usually the 6 months that they do their part of the work they have to do in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why I think that by allowing them to stay in Croatia for six months without having to go through that full procedure, it will stimulate them and facilitate their arrival and stay in the Republic of Croatia. It is also a good provision that they are allowed to teach. So researchers who come to the Republic of Croatia especially at the university share their knowledge, participate in research, very often have a lot to pass on to our students, it is clear to everyone, it is logical and of course they should be allowed to teach in the Republic of Croatia without having to enter the working relationship, pass formalities, applications etc. So I think it's the same provision that will certainly contribute to our higher education system. It would also mention article 10, which is the remaining researchers to seek employment. I think he's very important because it has been known that some foreign researchers who come to the Republic of Croatia create certain links at universities, institutes, etc. and want to report for a job in a public tender and stay in the Republic of Croatia permanently cannot do so, but must return to their country, re-register the stay, ask for the approval of a temporary stay in order to even report to the tender and then get a stay in the Republic of Croatia. So I think that just because we allow them to keep this continuity right after they stay in the Republic of Croatia, they get an extension, and then they can report to the competition, get into a working relationship is something that will also make it easier for many and give them motive to stay in the Republic of Croatia. It would also mention Article 11 concerning going to another Member State of the European Economic Area. So that's a provision that says that if one of them temporarily goes to do maybe part of the job, part of the project in another Member State of the European Economic Area, that it won't lead to the end of the temporary stay or that it won't lead to re-application, etc., I think it's also very good, especially because most of the projects that are being done today, scientific projects, are multinational. So very often you have research groups from several universities, from different countries, and then it's logical that someone who implements the project in the Republic of Croatia, for example at the Medical Faculty, must also spend part of that time in Germany or France and such people who come from a third country. So I think that it also needs to be flexible there, it needs to enable these people to carry out their activities, implement projects, enrich the education systems of our Member States, and I think that this provision also makes it easier and I think that this is something that needs to be welcomed. So that's what this is about. I would also refer to another matter mentioned earlier in another section, which concerns reasons for refusing to grant temporary stay. So, counterpart Pusic, who is unfortunately not here, mentioned that a provision that says that it can be rejected for reasons of national security, public health, etc., that it is too wide and that it is arbitral. I would like to mention this way that this provision, which means calling for national security and public health, is a legal standard in the EU. The same provision is therefore explicitly stated in Article 7. Directive 2016/801 is being implemented here, so we just copied it into our legislation. I would also point out that Directive 2004/38, Article 27, which regulates the stay and freedom of movement of EU citizens in Member States, contains the same provision. So even other EU citizens can limit their stay in the Republic of Croatia if they pose a threat to public security, i.e. national security. So this is about one legal standard that knows EU rules and if the European legislator does not consider it insufficiently precise and leads to arbitration, I do not know why Croatia would think so. So I think that provision is perfectly fine, I think it's something that's quite common, and I don't think there's any problem. So I ultimately support this law, the implementation of this directive, I think it is very positive, that it will enable, facilitate this exchange of knowledge between our education system and the educated systems of third countries, the best universities in the world. And also this way, I note that this law is not the only one that needs it. So if we really want to enable foreigners and the best researchers from other countries to come work in the Republic, to come work with our scientists and our universities, that it is also necessary to make major legal changes in the basic law regulated by this system, meaning the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, I know that the Ministry of Science and Education is working on a new law, so at least they announced. And I believe that this law will just contain provisions that will enable that mobility and that will facilitate this exchange of knowledge, and then perhaps our students, our young researchers will stay in Croatia and will not go outside, listen to the best foreign scientists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81571	Thank you, fellow Sokol. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ranko Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81572	Dear fellow Sokol, I had no idea that at any point I would not support the question of mobility, strengthening the attractiveness, the arrival of foreign students, the exchange, so obviously you misunderstood me. I'm just saying that what we support in that law is a cover to avoid some other things that aren't solved by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81573	Thank you. Answer me, fellow Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81574	Thank you very much. So I think your colleague said that, in style this is important, so you implied that this second part is important, but well, I wouldn't get into it right now, I think we have a stenogram of who wants to check it out. But to say it's a cover, I don't think it's right. So this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law is here to implement the directive. What you're talking about, what we can discuss and the question of reasoning, etc., is not the subject of that directive or this law at all. So it's something that exists in the existing Foreign Law but it's not at all the subject of these changes and additions. And that's why I think to say that the implementation of a directive that we have to implement in our legal system is a cover for something, I don't think it's just standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81575	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81576	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Sokol, you are in your debate, you have quite touched on the topics of education and science. And what absolutely needs to be pointed out is that it will take a series of laws to change all conditions, not only of the parent ministry, but also of importance for this law to change mobility. Croatia's openness, Croatia's development is not just up to us, and we are reading the possibility that young people are going out. We need to be interesting to have someone come, we need to be interesting to come to our universities and our colleges to study some others, to stay there, to deal with science, to deal with some things. This can be interesting in a way to show that Croatia's openness. And I read this amendment and the addition of the law in that part in a way that is truly what is important to the EU, which is mobility, especially mobility in the world of science.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81577	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Taritash. Come in, mate Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81578	Thank you very much. Well, fellow, here I agree with you. So we tried while I was at the ministry, if I may point out, to make one limited amendment and addition of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education which had just contained provisions that should have been made quite easier and simplified and the return of Croatian scientists from the diaspora and the arrival of foreign researchers in the Republic. Unfortunately, those amendments and the additions to the law were then... some... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That didn't have much to do with the truth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was a lot of media harangus that caused any particular interests, so unfortunately there was nothing. But I hope this new law announced will be on the same track. As far as we need to be interesting, I agree, so also we in the ministry have launched some projects just to stimulate the most qualitative scientists and report projects and from Horizons from future EU framework programmes which are the top of scientific productivity which should then attract foreign scientists to the Republic of Croatia. And here's what I'm hoping the current department furniture will continue along the same path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81579	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81580	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Sokol, you spoke of facilitating the mobility of higher education, especially in small economies, which is very important, mentioning third countries as well as America. And I just want to remind... that it is in fact necessary to keep an eye on those persons who have established Croatian status without citizenship and should not at all be, they should not be considered as foreigners within the meaning of this law and should actually exercise their status, i.e. the right in accordance with a special regulation in relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I refer to one of the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since June 2017, with which nothing has actually happened to date, i.e. it is not as such operationalised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81581	I thank my colleague Babic. Hey, buddy Falcon's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81582	Thank you. My colleague Babić, I completely agree, I think that we are quite unfortunately, whether for higher interests or for some other reason we have ignored the scientific potential that Croats have outside the Republic of Croatia, both Croatian citizens and those without citizenship, so I think that they should be enabled, as much as possible, to return and work in Croatia, but also through the rules of citizenship, to enable them to acquire that citizenship. I think even in the existing law, citizenship exists provisions that Croats outside Croatia can acquire members of the Croatian people, outside Croatia, can gain citizenship, and of course it must be facilitated and made possible as much. Because the purpose of the whole process and the whole legal framework is not to make it difficult for them, but to make it easier for them. And on that trail, I support you, and also, this way and note, that we have also launched in the Ministry from the European Social Fund, funded some projects that have just been related to this diaspora exchange, or, with ours, with Croats outside Croatia, I hope that they too... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81583	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol for his reply. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the final word, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81584	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Believe it or not, I will now state the position that has changed in relation to the previous one, which I said, which is that the SDP Club will not support this law. Namely, let that miracle happen, and that is, that following the reasoned corrections that you said, Mr. Sokol, and also an apology to the secretary of state, you are right to say that neither the business nor the amendment can be put on the amendments to the laws that were. And it's fair to say for that reason, that story is out. And evidence, so preparedness, to just support what's important, the mobility of students, etc. These connections, we will change this attitude and we will support the Foreigners Act in this part, of course, by believing in that part of the promise you said, which is that a serious Act on Foreigners, which is in preparation, will soon be adopted, therefore, we will be able to supplement and resolve those things that are really affecting human rights and the question of the Constitution of the prescribed right of appeal, reasoning, etc. There's only one sentence, a directive, exactly that they've been transferred inside, but there's no way they can and there's no way it can be without an explanation in EU countries. So I'm not going to go into the subject that's obviously not the subject of today's debate, but here I think it's very important to say in this situation what's right and washed away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81585	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Ranko Ostojić, on behalf of the promoter, final word, the Honorable State Secretary, Zarko Katic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81586	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Thank you very much for this exhaustive and thorough debate. I think the purpose of these changes is recognised and I believe and the benefit it will have for our academic community and ultimately for our economy. More of you, and especially Mr. Sokol, in his debate pointed out the key benefits that our academic community, our research sector and our economy will benefit when these amendments and amendments to the law come into force. I'm glad that Mr. Ostojić, accepted the arguments, then I didn't elaborate them, I was ready to elaborate now and further, but I think in this context, then it doesn't make sense. I will only repeat that the existence of meeting the conditions of public security, public health is standard and that all EU directives are being called upon, and then our law. In addition to explicitly in Art. 5. The law states that the security check is carried out, that the SOA conducts it almost identically has the Security Verification Act in its Article 41. I would, however, say just a few words about this issue of refusing to enter, which is repeatedly repeated. First of all, in 2016, a total of 9136 foreigners were rejected at our border crossings, so their entry was rejected and in 2017. 10602. So there was a 16% increase. The most common reasons for refusing to enter because the person does not have the appropriate documentation to justify the purpose and terms of his stay, or does not have a valid visa or residence permit or has a restraining order or, for example, does not have a valid travel document. Article 38. which is now changing Article 4. It is prescribed that a third-country national, who does not meet the conditions for entry, will be refused entry into the Republic of Croatia and that a solution will be issued. There was a question of appeal, therefore, the complaint can be declared as entering, refusing entry, and refusing to refuse a visa in the DKP but such a solution, therefore, is not delayed, such a complaint does not delay the execution of the solution, because it is not possible to carry out the appeal procedure since the person is outside. The total number of prevented entrys suggests that it would be impossible to carry out a valid procedure with the translator, with a lawyer and that it meets all the conditions laid down by this law, the General Administrative Procedure Act and other regulations. Therefore, this practice is also valid in all other EU countries. Thank you very much again for your discussion and I believe this law will enrich our academic research community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81587	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Zarko Katic, for this final debate. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81588	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 328, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like a representative of the motion of the Secretary of State at the MUP of Honored Zarko Katic to be shown about the amendments submitted. State Secretary Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81589	Your Honor, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted. He just nomotechnically... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81590	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81591	Amendment number 2 of the Committee on Legislatives is accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81592	It also becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81593	Amendment number 3 The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81594	And that amendment becomes an integral part of the law, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 14 abstentions and 1 vote against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81595	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences of terrorism and other serious criminal offences, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 294. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to this item of the agenda. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate by virtue of Art. 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for legislation, the committee responsible for internal policy and national security. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I propose, i.e. I call on the representative of the proposer, the respected Secretary of State, Zarko Katic, to give us an additional explanation of this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81596	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The final proposal of the Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting a criminal procedure for acts of terrorism and other serious criminal offences in Croatian legislation shall transpose the provisions of Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of data from passenger records for the purpose of the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious criminal offences. The aim of that Directive is to strengthen and improve international cooperation with a view to increasing efficiency in countering international crime. Given that the use of data from passenger records is a key tool in the fight against new forms of terrorism and other serious criminal offences, it enables identification and persons who have not been suspected of taking part in such offences, the effective use of such data further strengthens the activities of preventing detection, research and the conduct of criminal proceedings for these most serious offences. The draft law in the first reading was discussed at the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament held on 16 March 2018, after which the comments and proposals were carefully considered. In relation to the draft law, the final draft law has no major amendments, contains certain minor, primarily no-technical amendments, and those proposed and presented by the Committee on Legislatives to Art. 3., 28. and 30. and they have been fully accepted and properly incorporated into the provisions of the final proposal for a law. Also, changes have been made to Art. 12. In order to comply with the Directive, nomotechnical and explicit adjustments have been made in the other text of the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81597	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for the explanation of the final draft law. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Željko Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81598	Dear colleagues, air traffic is known to reach a lot of passengers from Arab countries at Sarajevo airport. There doesn't need a visa. This may be a rhetorical question, I know you're monitoring this flow of who goes through the year,... who remains unauthorized, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the first question, like, tracking that traffic in the neighborhood because some come from religious schools, I've seen them on a flight and it can be a litter of something. The second question, if we are asked visas to some country's outside Croats, is on visa issues, for example. that you have seen or committed war crimes. Why don't we do the same? For example. People who participated in colonial campaigns in France, England, etc. There may still be diplomats. We don't have to take our underpants off to third-rate clerks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81599	I thank my colleague Glasnović. Answer, Secretary of State Katic. Oh, no? Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81600	Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you a question. The media reported today that MOSAD's killer was arrested in the Republic of Croatia who killed a Tunisian citizen and allegedly Croatia does not want to extradite him. So I'd like to say i.e. ask when he intends to hand him over to Tunisia to answer for the crime he committed or perhaps simply Croatia hides and protects murderers if they are from the country where we get military planes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81601	Dear colleague Pernar, you've replicated the Secretary of State to the Final Proposal of the Law, that is, the argument. This inquiry of yours has nothing to do with the Final Bill, so I would ask you to stay away from abuses in the future. Mr. Pernar, please behave yourself. [[You can't hear it.]] So, I ask you to stay away from such abuses of the Rules of Procedure in the future because this is not a replica of the State Secretary's exposure. ... Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? [[Pernar: You can't hear it.]] No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There is a SDP representative club, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81602	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the respected secretary of state with a co-worker. Discussing terrorism and criminal offences, of course, requires special activity in various areas since 2004, when the first obligation of the carrier to provide data on passengers transferred to Croatian legislation in the provisions of the State Border Control Act is now strengthened by the implementation of the directive that has been discussed for years, which is... or precisely a directive relating to the use of data from passenger records in order to prevent the detection of investigations and prosecution of criminal offences, serious terrorism, serious criminal offences. It is clear that the efficient use of these data on air passengers, for example by comparing these data with all those records that exist in various databases on wanted persons and cases, is necessary to prevent the detection of investigations and prosecution. As new forms of terrorist action are growing, which pose a security challenge for the entire international community, demands national engagement, it was necessary to strengthen and improve international co-operation and ensure effective exchange. Now I'm going to give an example, namely this is about the next one, which is that specifically in Dover port which was the entrance before the La Manche tunnel within an hour of their service were after a filled memo on which the carrier of 1500 trucks entered the UK in an hour they had a choice which actually trucks would eventually examine. In the end, they examined only five to eight trucks of those 1500, and in two thirds they did indeed find or confirm the reasons why they chose them. The use of such data, of course, that the use of modern technology in the fight against terrorism leads to a necessary impact and in private life, personal data of individuals, and therefore it is very important to find this very balance between the legitimate interest of preserving public security and the need to protect personal data. For this reason, by respecting these regulations of European legislation that regulate the collection, processing and retention of personal data, which is secured by an independent body, which means our AZOP, I think it is above all necessary to ensure that personal data protection, banning the processing of data that reveal any racial, ethnic origin, political views, religious, belief, trade union membership, health or sex life of respondents. As far as I'm aware of the law, such data is prescribed, if received, to be deleted without delay. Therefore, in this part of this law of implementation, it is clear that with all steps, terrorist threats will soon be in a situation where such data will have to be sought for travellers in international coastal transport, it is likely that the situation will have to be shared as much data as possible. What I must say on my part is that by choosing between protecting public security, a situation in which we are ready to share information with others on who they may be, and thus ensuring the right protection of persons and people and on a journey that should not at that time be subject to treatment or control or specific examination. I think that this would be primarily necessary to stress and again mentioning the issue of surveillance is extremely important that it does not happen when processing or data processing occurs or the results of human rights violations or abuse of them. For this reason, I must say that we will support this final proposal of the Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers with this purpose of preventing, detecting, researching, carrying out criminal proceedings for terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81603	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ostojić. Next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81604	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. As we know at the world level taste international prevalence of organised crime, international travel is often part of organised crime and terrorist activities. The prevention of terrorism and criminal offences requires activities in various areas, and one of these areas is the collection and processing of certain data. In that sense, what would first point out is that fighting terrorism is one of the topics, similar to cybersecurity that we discussed where the state has no choice but to cooperate with one another, to exchange information and information and things to solve multilaterally, especially about things that are necessarily cross-border like air transport. Of course, without some common framework that will address this at the European and international level, the Member States themselves and their actions cannot be nearly effective. So a similar situation as in the debate we had on cybersecurity, means the unilateral measures of some countries wanted them not to simply not be effective enough without a common legal framework. In this sense, the EU, which has been dealing primarily with the economic issues of freedom of movement, goods, services and so on since 1992 since the Maastricht treaty, has extended its competence to these areas of criminal law and cooperation and the fight against crime and terrorism. And that's what's extremely important, and that's the legal basis and that legal basis that I'm allowing a series of laws and a series of regulations on this area, and one of them is this law that we're discussing today. Therefore, as already mentioned in Council Directive 2004/82/EC on the obligation of the carrier to supply passenger data, the obligation to supply certain data to certain competent authorities has already been established. So this directive has been transposed into Croatian legislation, as stated by the provisions of the State Border Control Act, and is bound by air carriers to supply the data listed in the travel document as well as by the transport data available to air carriers. So that's something we already have in our legislation, in our current, positive legal legislation. However, air carriers for commercial purposes collect other information on air passengers. These data are collected from passengers themselves, and the processing of these data is an additional tool to combat cross-border crime, given that international travel is sometimes part of organised crime and terrorist activities. In this respect, it is necessary to prescribe the obligation of air carriers to provide such data to competent authorities, which deal with the prevention of terrorism and criminal offences, as well as to establish the handling of competent authorities with such data, and for the purpose of preventing, detecting investigation and prosecution, criminal acts of terrorism and serious criminal offences already mentioned here and which are counted by this law. Therefore, with a view to increasing efficiency with the prevention of criminality with international features, Directive 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of data from passenger records, on the purpose of preventing the detection of criminal prosecution, criminal part of terrorism and serious criminal offences. This Directive aims to regulate the transmission of air passenger data, which is available to air carriers on international flights, as well as the processing of those data, for the purpose of preventing and detecting, researching and conducting criminal proceedings for terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. So the legal basis for this directive is art. In the 82nd and 87th contracts on the functioning of the EU, which are just intended to regulate this area, means judicial cooperation, surveillance and the fight against crime. As an EU Member State, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to transpose the provisions of that Directive national legislation. Since the transposition of the provisions of the directive into applicable regulations would require amendments to several legal regulations already in place, this Final Proposal for the Law on the Transfer and Processing of Air Passenger Data has been drawn up, that I am not now reading the entire remainder, which is intended to edit those substances in a unique manner. I think that's good, so that's one system of arrangements, where all the relevant provisions are in one place, which certainly contributes, clarity, legal certainty, to all those who address this law. Following the above, the final draft law seeks to prescribe the obligations and procedures for the transmission of air passenger data collected by air carriers and the processing of such data by the competent authorities. Depersonalisation of passenger data and sanctions for non-compliance with the obligations laid down in this law shall be established by the competent authorities for the search and receipt of data on passengers, processing and storage, time limits for the storage of passenger data, the identification of the body responsible for depersonalisation of passenger data. The use of modern technology in the fight against terrorism and other serious criminal acts inevitably leads to certain intrusion into the private life and personal data of individuals. It's something that's also mentioned here, and something that's extremely important. So we here actually have a few principles, i.e. two principles that are in conflict with each other, which are constitutionally character and which are in relevant international documents and constitutions related to the protection of human rights. So one of these principles is the principle of security, so protection of public security, especially from terrorism, which has been particularly intense since the 9/11 terrorist attack, but from the second century, we have the right to privacy. So we have protection of the rights of privacy, which is also mentioned in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and is found in our Constitution and in all relevant international documents for the protection of human rights. So we here actually need some balance between these principles and those rights. On the one hand, none of them can be absolute, can be completely protected, but must be said through some kind of a test of proportionality find the right balance in their practical application. In that sense, this law is one part of that legal framework, but it is not the only one. So we have a well-known JDPR regulation, meaning a regulation on the protection of personal data at EU level, and a whole series of other relevant regulations, which serve to protect personal data and when individual situations will be addressed, of course this law and this directive should be seen in combination with that, within this complete legal framework of the EU and the Republic of Croatia. Thus, at international level, it has been accepted that passenger data are a necessary tool to combat terrorism and other serious criminal acts for the following reasons, international tourism, as well as other criminalities, pose a serious threat to society and it is necessary to provide access to data on air passengers and their analysis. So this is something that is absolutely necessary, especially as today is terrorism, has this international character, we know that suspects of serious crime, not only for terrorism but also, very often, change borders and, of course, that it is necessary to exchange data and monitor their activity, in order to be able to react in time and in the right way. Furthermore, the development of technology allows for access to the above data and analysis of these data, which was considered unimaginable several years ago. So there's really one advance in technology that, with light steps, goes on every day. And given the rapid increase in international travel and passenger numbers, which is particularly relevant for Croatia, given tourism and growth, a huge increase in traffic... airports in recent years, with age, which makes this law and this directive relevant to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Electronic data processing, prior to the arrival of passengers, greatly facilitates and speeds up security border checks since the risk assessment is carried out prior to arrival. So, he says, this is for a tourist country like Croatia, particularly important, and especially in the context, where our applications for entering Schengen space, where one of the most important things, is precisely this control of Croatia's borders, as the EU's external border and, of course, these air elements, airports and air transport are very important. The effective use of air passenger data aims to further strengthen prevention, detection and prosecution of criminal offences for terrorist offences and certain other serious criminal offences, which are numbered by law, with the aim of strengthening internal security, and the protection of life and security of citizens, which is the fundamental objective and purpose of the adoption of this law. In doing so, full respect of the right to the protection of personal data and the right to non-discrimination shall be ensured, given that this final transport of the law, each passenger whose data are processed ensures the rights laid down in specific rules governing the protection of personal data, as I have already mentioned. Data shall be processed to reveal race or ethical origin, political views, religious or other beliefs, trade union membership, health or sex life of respondents, and, if such data are received, deleted without delay. The same thing that has already been mentioned, and what is certainly important to highlight, thus preventing the use and misuse of such data for some purposes that simply do not comply with the fundamental purpose of this law, that is to protect the security of citizens. Therefore, the HDZ Club believes that this law is positive, so the funds are secured in the Republic of Croatia's budget, i.e. in the MUP's position, and in this sense we believe there is no reason why the law is not supported and in this sense we certainly support the adoption of this law as another step in protecting the security of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia and the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81605	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. We're continuing with the agenda. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81607	I would like to thank the Vice President, once again, the Honorable Secretary of State. Very briefly, in this second reading, I think we've heard basic things here in the first reading, so this law regulates the transmission of data on air passengers who collect air carriers, and data processing, meaning everything that depends. We've already heard this before, I've said it in my first reading, so I'm not going to repeat myself, so there's always this kind of thing where there's one obstacle between protection of security and protection of privacy, and we usually always give it to us more important privacy until we're at risk of security. So every man feels that way, no one has the need to let any law enforcement authorities into his house, the premises, and until he asks for it until he gets to safety. So here I think it's not too much or pleasant for anyone to talk to, work, so we have to be careful about this kind of data, especially when we see what was on our latest affair about the use of unauthorized data that is... users of a particular social network. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I pointed out in my first reading, as far as article 10 is concerned, I got a partial answer here and I see, so let's just say let's elaborate a little bit more than I thought. So when I asked about the protection of that data, we listed a series here, there are 19 items that are meant to be delivered. It doesn't say anywhere that they're optional, it just says they have to be delivered. So apparently, air carriers will already have to collect that data from anyone operating with passengers and flights. One of these things is, say, item 8. The data on value programs. Now, what I'm asking is what if some data comes out and starts to be used, I believe that today all airlines are already using data, programs... in such a way as to give them to certain specialised companies, marketing companies which therefore make their propaganda, i.e. promotions, contacts, e-mails, programs, systems, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this part of it we would actually get the thing that something that is intended to be given to a special encryption is used. Because that information was used before, it's nothing new. Only in this way did I actually want to draw attention to that in general some of these data will be used and what, I suppose will still be able to use for those purposes they used for their promotion, rewarding loyalty, etc., but these same data will then be delivered to the competent unit at the Ministry of Interior. Now, the question I had was, if those data came to you, they were delivered to third parties that it wasn't actually deregulated, they'd be de facto delivering one piece of data to third parties. I guess, or he won't. So that's where my debate was going. So here you have put it, that the provisions of the specific rules on the protection of personal data are applied, so I guess that's when these data don't go into that data, and that there's an indication that the data of the Ministry of the Interior are subject to the provisions and regulations on the confidentiality of data. So it's not at all a matter of going towards that unit of ours, it's that we don't go into collapsing this law to prescribe that certain data is classified and actually they're already used today for their normal economic purposes for those carriers that are already doing it. What I did, and then last time I emphasized, is the same thing when we talk about data security that these data are kept for 5 years and then they're so-called. Depersonalize, so then delete all the personal data that can connect with a particular person, so let's continue to support it. Of course, Article 21 of the data exchange, why this is important, not only will we send but what we get, we are a tourist country, a lot of people come by plane, especially when we look at Dubrovnik and everything and as aircraft destinations we are extremely interesting, I think that there, too, we must surely have hearing that this is going in both directions and that we will be getting data from Europol and other institutions. So it's not just what we give someone something and some issues of sovereignty that someone used to say before, but we use a lot of it. And what I've only mentioned as well, the last thing about paragraph 12. General remarks, let's still have that definition of underage passengers without an escort under 18. The minors are under 18 but we have to say in the world and minors who are up to 21, so let's still figure out why it says it, but that they have to deliver the language, or the languages they speak, just so that there's a fence, so we can't ask that someone is now determining with a child of 7, 8 years or 5 or I don't know 10, whether or not they're going to resort to it, to determine which language that traveller speaks because we know when we come to check, when we're on those security checks that actually there's very little conversation or the person who teaches the cards and checks out, so not all three, four in the family, etc. So just implementing it, I'm curious about how it's going to be. So here's how much, so finally, of course, the HNS club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81608	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Churay, for this debate on behalf of the club. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Zark Katic, for the reasons of this bill and his co-worker, Mrs. Daria Drakulic. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I will now determine, i.e. setting a break by 3:00 p.m. when we will continue with the agenda, report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017 STANTA At 13.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81609	The final proposal of the Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences of terrorism and other serious criminal offences, second reading, P.Z.E. No 294, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is concluded. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee, so I would again like to ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of State in the Ministry of State-respected Zarko Katic to be shown about the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81610	Mr President, the Government of the Republic of Croatia agrees with the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 11, paragraph 3 and accepts it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81611	Thank you. So that amendment becomes an integral part of the law, and then I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous, with 76 votes to pass the Law on the transfer and processing of data on air passengers for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating and conducting criminal offences of terrorism and other serious criminal offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81612	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government has delivered an opinion and now the applicant's representative will give an additional explanation, please. Mr. Ivan Klesic, Chief State Auditor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81613	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office, a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017 was submitted to the Croatian Assembly. As you know, offices, types of audit, entities, audit items are determined by the annual programme and the work plan. The 2017 programme and the work plan covered all entities for which the Law of the State Office for Audit, the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotion are prescribed to carry out the audit each year, which are the Annual Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 and political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of local units. Other audits are planned solely on the basis of the established criteria. What have we done during this reporting period? We have completed all planned audits other than an audit of the efficiency of capital investments in primary and secondary schools that are under way. Reports on audits carried out have been submitted to the Croatian Assembly and, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information, are also published on the Office's website. So during 2017, we carried out 291 audits, of which 268 financial audits and 23 efficiency audits. The financial audits cover the state budget and 27 of its users, 82 of the budget of local units, 89 of the fire departments, 20 of the county road administrations, 3 of the other entities, 35 of the political parties, 8 of the independent representatives and 3 members of the representative bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. For them, 111 unconditional, 149 conditional, 6 unfavourable and 2 abstentions were expressed. The annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2016 has been given a conditional opinion and on the financial reports and business of the beneficiaries of the state budget, 7 unconditional, 18 conditional and 2 unfavourable opinions. The most frequently identified irregularities are identified in planning, accounting and financial reporting, use of assets, achievement of income and claims, expenditure, obligations and public procurement procedures. For the budgets, local units have 24 unconditional opinions, 56 conditional and 2 unfavourable. The audit identified irregularities in almost the same areas as the users of the state budget. Furthermore, last year's audit included 89 fire departments, 20 county road administrations, 3 other entities. Their financial statements and business are expressed in 48 unconditional, 61 conditional, 1 unfavourable and 2 abstentions. Let me remind you, over the past year, this House has debated and accepted reports on the financial audit of fire departments and reports of the county road administrations. As pointed out earlier, the Office also carried out 23 performance audits covering 196 entities during this reporting period. For the management of agricultural land owned by the State in the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agricultural Land Agency and in the area of Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, Brod-Posavina, Koprivnica-križevci, Osijek-Baranja, Varazdinska and Virovička-Podravska County, it was estimated to have been partially effective. What I would like to emphasise here and what we consider a major contribution from the Office is that our remarks and proposals the Ministry of Agriculture have installed in the Agricultural Land Act adopted in February of this year in this House of the High. For public procurement, the Office estimated that in 2 societies, the lottery and Split Airport were effective in Croatia. Public procurement in Croatia air navigation control was effective in which certain improvements were needed and in 3 societies, significant improvements were needed, in Croatia Airlines, in Croatian forests and in the Adriatic. The implementation of the Energy Reconstruction Programme of Public Sector Buildings at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and at the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation has been assessed as partially effective. The management of maritime goods in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, as well as in the Istrian and Split-Dalmatia County, was partially effective while improvements were needed in the areas of Dubrovnik-Neretvaska, Lika-Senjska, Primorje-Gorski, Sibenik-Kninska and Zadar County. In its indication of our report, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure stated that it is actively working on the creation of a new Law on Maritime Good and Maritime Ports, whose adoption is planned to carry out the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office. For the impact of the programme initiative... on projects submitted by the Republic of Croatia for co-financing from EU funds, the Office has assessed that it is partially effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also had a debate here in this high house with a representative from the European Court of Auditors. This report was also discussed and was adopted in 2017 in March of this year at a joint session of the three committees – the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament, the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. A joint report on the co-ordinated audit of joint assistance to support projects in European regions drawn up jointly by the European Court of Auditors, the state audit offices of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland has been presented. In addition to those audits, the Office also carried out 31 verifications of the implementation of the recommendations made in audits, the effectiveness of the prevention and detection of fraud in companies owned by local units of economic justification for differences in public service prices, and audits of public procurement efficiency in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. The procedures for verifying the implementation of the tasks and recommendations have also been carried out in the context of financial audits. Of the 2746 orders and recommendations given, checks have shown that 879 orders and recommendations or 31.8% have not been carried out. Furthermore, we have also made 96 insights into the financial reports for 51 extraparliamentary political parties and 45 members of local unit representative bodies. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs, as well as earlier years and during 2017, the Office worked together before, in progress and after an audit with the judicial and other state bodies. Documents and reports have been exchanged for 69 cases with the State's Attorney's Office, the MUP and the courts. For the purpose of carrying out the audit, the Office also collaborated with the National Election Commission. It is also a significant international cooperation between our Office which... through exchange of views, experiences and professional literature with the aim of equating the methodology of work, and monitoring the modern course of development of the audit profession in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would especially like to highlight cooperation with the European Court of Auditors and the European countries' top audit institutions with a long tradition and great experience in the work that we are doing. From 2014 to 2016, with the top audit institution of Israel, we were re-elected to be the auditor of EUROSAI, the European branch of the international organisation of the Supreme Audit Institutions, and at the latest EUROSAI congress in Istanbul, we were re-elected to be in the post for a period of 3 years with our colleagues from Bulgaria, which is undoubtedly a great recognition if I told you that of the 39 countries present in Istanbul, 37 by a secret vote voted for us. So, one big trust that we got from our fellow auditors from across the EU. The Office was also elected to host the annual meeting of the EU Contact Committee in 2018, which will be held in October as the heads of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU member states and the European Court of Auditors. The very important meeting, which will be attended by representatives of the highest European institutions such as the European Parliament and the European Commission, will take place in Dubrovnik this October. A number of activities related to the Twinning project and strengthening our external audit capacity have been carried out in the Republic of Albania since May 2016 with the Supreme Audit Institution of Poland. In addition, at the end of the last year, the Office, with the Supreme Audit Institution of Bulgaria, launched a Twinnig project to strengthen the capacity of the Supreme Audit Institution of the Republic of Macedonia to carry out all the tasks in our office in a few words made up of the central office and 20 district offices located in the headquarters of our counties. 343 jobs have been systematised, and in late April 2018 we have 288 jobs filled, of the number of 238 employees performing audit tasks, which is extremely important to us because a large number of people have retired. Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81614	Thank you to the chief state auditor, Mr. Ivan Klesic. We have four replicas on his display. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81615	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Director of the State Audit Office, thank you for your presentation. Allow me very briefly. You stated in the report that you had 268 audit reports for 2017. The largest number of conditional assessments you've given, that's something that's been repeated over and over again for years, is the number of conditional assessments, a very small number of unfavourable ones. So the question is what does this mean when, in fact, it's obvious to me over the years that you've actually seen the same unquality work, the management of public money, the public procurement and everything else that's your object of supervision. We don't see any shifts in quality, we actually see the same bad results that have been going through all these years of reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81616	Thank you. Answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81617	Your Honor, Mr. Podolnjak, you're absolutely right. There can be added only something we will be able to do in the future, and that is precisely these days is the Government of the Republic of Croatia... On April 26th, at a meeting of the government, it adopted a national reform programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic national reform programme, to be implemented, will include amendments and additions to the Law on the State Office for the Review of the Republic of Croatia. In the amendments and additions to the Law on the State Audit Office, one of the segments of importance requested by the European Commission, the Council, the Commission will be exactly sanctioning those who do not carry out the tasks and recommendations of the State Audit Office. There's a solution to what you said. Because, really, you're absolutely right, it doesn't make sense, it's been going through for years and we're determining the same irregularities. There are even entities that have not responded at all to what... The implementation, therefore, of a warrant and recommendation is to remove irregularities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81618	Thank you. Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81619	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Klesic, for many years you've been with your team doing this job, and we see here in the report that it's not covered by MISVI, JLS, or all the entities you control. I'm only interested in your personal opinion based on experience and a long number of years of audits, whether trends in improvement or stagnation are. In fact, when the reasoning of conditional opinions and unconditional and others is considered, it is simply difficult, without the impression, that there is no shift in a positive sense. Well, here I am, quite familiar with your official opinion, whether in the area where you're doing your review, if you see whether there are positive trends or if we're standing in place, let's put it in a simple dictionary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81620	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81621	Dear Mr. Batinic, I personally believe that the State Audit Office is much done to improve the situation. And I think it's getting better from year to year. The implementation, when the National Reform Programme is implemented, when the State Audit Act is amended, I am sure that this will improve to an absolute minimum of 50%, as sanctioning will be introduced for those who will not implement it, but sanctioning in a material sense will be paid large fines. And then you know how it usually happens. Our irresponsibleness is our irresponsibleness, but when you touch your pocket a little, it's something different. Here, I hope you're satisfied with my answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81622	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Vlaovic's, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81623	Thank you, colleague Klesic, Mr Klesic, this report should not have come suddenly on the agenda today and in this way is your work and your activities, which means that you are the government's tool in the control of public spending, that you should not have gone this way. Is, you control whether public money, whether all activities are carried out in accordance with the law, in those institutions that you control. I congratulate you on that and on your comprehensive report. Last time I said, in order to be even more successful, you have to have equipment, personnel and money, I hope that something has changed in a positive one, and I have volunteered for the replica, because you mentioned partially effective, the control was at the Ministry of Agriculture, the Agricultural Land Agency, about the billing and concession of agricultural land, where about 500 million kuna was owed to the state, the state institutions,... agriculture and this will now be spilling over to municipalities and cities, since it is not decisive in this ministry either. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we expect these great problems, and I expect that you too will have understanding that comes to the burden of the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81624	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81625	Your Honor, if I may correct a little bit, we are the State Audit Office, is a cultural mechanism but the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, not the Government. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Executive Authority that we are reviewing and their business. So, as far as we're concerned, I'm sure in this part, given that we're getting a little bit stronger from our ranks, in the sense that 29 people have retired, experienced auditors, that's almost irreparable. Whoever works in this business knows, it's an extremely complex and difficult job and professional. So the young people we hired are extremely good quality, but it takes time for them to do their own audit work. So I believe that the days that are coming, and I am here in 2011 after this pay phone, I have told you which direction the office will go and we are going that way and I think it is very successful for both our office and for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81626	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81627	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Klesic, my replica is at the end of this thought that you just said. So on the page. 73. is the state of your office and the average age of employees is 48.4 years. And I read that problem. So I'm interested in how to proceed? So there should always be somehow a schedule for more experienced people, I won't tell the elderly because that would be offensive to anyone, but more experienced and young. And the question is, how do I proceed? How to become, in a way that makes young people interesting, to gather experiences, only so, all these questions of predecessors who have asked you will be able to answer. One day they won't have anyone to do the job. So my question is how do you keep track of this and what you colleagues have answered before me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81628	Thank you, colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81629	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative Dark Taritash, you always follow our work and we see it as you follow it and you are all right to say it. That's the problem that the office has, that I've been pointing to here, but unfortunately, we haven't come across, I'd say, one positive answer, that we're being provided with the funds that we can hire new people. Only when the European Commission asked for a national reform programme in 2015 did it seek to strengthen the State Audit Office in order to strengthen the control of the expenditure side of the state budget, but in a way that employs new staff. We've been doing it for the last three years, and I'm happy with it, we're happy with it, because the young people we've got are amazing. They speak foreign languages, they're worth it, they're honest, they're great, but it takes time. We didn't leave that part. And the other thing that's very important, that's our budget. We have to say, I have to say as chief state auditor at this High House, 92% of the budget of the State Audit Office goes to pay. I'm asking you who knows a little bit about the finances, the material and directing costs of the office, we have 20 district offices in county centers, we don't have the money to educate people. How do we educate people? Well, I'd like you to come and see that my assistants are processing certain subjects and then educate our chiefs and the headmasters and the headmasters... and you have to admit it's hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81630	Thank you. Would the committee reporter like to take the floor? A colleague of Grozdana Perić, president of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81631	... Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected state auditors with associates. So here you have pointed out which coverage was in the last year of your work, I will just point out once again that this coverage included 268 only financial audits, and this was related to the state budget and users, local units, the fire department, the ZUC, other entities and political parties. That the efficiency review was 23, which is very important to note that these are very high-quality comparative data that can then be read and compared from all parts of Croatia. So it is also very important what we have been saying together with colleagues from Macedonia where they are. sublimated your audits give a truly high-quality business cut, but you also see some progress in those entities that really respect your recommendations and that's more than obvious. What would be important in the revision of efficiency itself during this previous period is important public procurement in companies whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Also, what colleagues have mentioned, the management of agricultural land that is very important, and what is taken into account in the procedures of the collection itself. But what should certainly be mentioned is the management of maritime goods, which is the same important resource that needs to be taken into account in particular. On the committee itself, we have concluded that the scope of the work and the importance of this service is very important and very high quality, and after the debate has unanimously proposed that such a report be supported in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81632	Thank you, too. Now we're opening a debate. On behalf of the club of representatives is first colleague Miro Bulj from the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81633	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs, respected Director General State Auditor Mr. Kresic and his associates. The fact is that today we suddenly received this report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017, it was not in the agenda. the reasons we can state whether the report lists a number of irregularities, the report is excellent, but every year the same number of irregularities, then it is possible that the ruling decision to pass this point under the radar as well as regularly as what they do because your work and the effort that has been made is much more important not to show the public in reality as it is. So an example from your good audit reports, i.e. Your work is, for example, a question of shipbuilding because the Split shipyards where you have warned before this report for years that non-intentional means for shipbuilding are being spent. You have warned the ministries, all institutions, but no one has done anything, and of course that vote is better not to be heard. Is this your hard work, your work, your pawnage that we're going to discuss from year to year what's less heard about the government better because here you're talking about how it works with public,...with public money, with public property. When we talk about public property, we talk about good things like maritime good, agricultural land, and it's known that it's done, and in the report you say that year after year it's a disaster. Here's whether or not this week's report was planned, which is a very important report on the work of the State Audit Office, doing a huge job, warns. We Parliamentarians are ultimately discussing your efforts and informing the judiciary of all those bodies that are tribune, but your work is being thrown under the table. We're going to talk here about all these irregularities, how many parolees you have, how many unfavourable and unconditional opinions you have, we can list and I can shed, I've read everything, but year by year when we talk about state users, these budget users, local units, parties, ZUCs, and last year I spoke, you always warn about the same problems. Of course, county roads are very important and countyal otherwise institutions are very important for party infrastructure so that these mistakes are no longer to be spoken of publicly and transparently, but you say so. You have the meaning of other entities, here's the management of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia, you're stating that no analytical investment of lease claims has been set up. You keep saying that year after year, but there is no result. And that's why colleagues and colleagues, it's not a coincidence today, a surprise agenda point. No, this is a deliberate surprise point is your report which is excellently visible as to how the state of property management and the spending of public money is. And we, as MPs against, should be loud because we are always discussing the same things, about reports where the Office has done a huge job and basically the results are none, but I don't blame the offices, I won't blame them or us as Parliament because we see that even a monologue has become a change of Rules of Procedure, you fruit can replicate to me, so we can listen to each other and even lullaby but I have a little stronger voice so that someone doesn't fall asleep, I'm going to scream. So the goal was to deprive this story of a very important report. As far as agricultural land is concerned, as far as maritime goods are concerned, you state that, the Split-Dalmatia County. Split Dalmatian County, here is now an example of how well seas are attractive, how much could be used for the development of the Republic of Croatia, mainly those areas, will now be without problems in Makarska,... A colleague knows, without a problem will change in space, there will be no more nature park, but of course down in Makarska will do what suits them, of course there is an uncle most important because he is still uncle to the prime minister and that this is not to be explained to the media but I will have the press and I will talk about it in Makarska or concreteisation of Makarska or the Golden War or let's say the division in Split, Meje, the beaches, Mr Kerum's partner, of course, their family is closer to them, that's how it goes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how it works, so instead of having a huge profit on the marine good, that we have clear criteria, we have no profit. They have individuals and groups. That's why... This report of yours may be announced as to how it should be announced, that the public has attention and that institutions after doing their job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would have many more questions here, but we at the MOST Club will support this report because people are doing their job. That's a fact, and that's where we'll agree to do it as well as we can see that we have, so they analyze, they try as hard as they can, but I'm still showing disappointment to the results because every year the same story. It's been a year and I'm in a lot of pain in my shipbuilding. Here tomorrow, the government of the Republic of Croatia has a session in Split. I personally asked countless questions and government, representative questions on the current clock, a number of questions about the issue of shipbuilding. It is not a problem that in the shipbuilding Croatia invested a billion and a half kuna, two, five, ten, but the problem is that this money did not go for the shipbuilding. And to that are colleagues from the audit, i.e. The office warned, year after year. So what happens now? We don't have ships, we lost people who went outside, from welders to engineers, now that money we gave, why we gave that money and, of course, now the owner who didn't respect those criteria will have to fire people if the Croatian state doesn't give me support and subsidies. And then, of course, the minister will come... and so far say and what, there's gonna be a strike of people because of course you're sorry people, and they're going to receive money for shipbuilding, and from shipbuilding and b. And that's the problem that didn't listen to at least the audit reports, at least if they'd listened to the recommendations from year to year, they didn't, and that's the basic problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So agricultural land is run badly, public money is mismanaged, beaches, maritime well-being, and that's what we're witnessing. People do their job from year to year, the report is terribly bad but it's perfectly done, I repeat, well done, but the problem isn't in the work of the State Audit Office, it's in the work of institutions that should be done. And I'm sorry that no one can replicate to ask me a question right now because they've done business now that they don't have the right replica, I can talk about spaceships on my own, you understand? Parliament has been so deadened, and that is the goal, that Parliament will be in the service of the government, not that the government will be in Parliament's service because this is an important topic. What's important is that this is being checked out and that your efforts are being thrown there somewhere on the side, you shouldn't have even worked on them, it would have been his favorite, but, well, we've reached the standards that you're doing your job, and so it should be, and I'm sorry that there's no possibility or replication or dialogue or communication to see if this is exactly what I'm saying, but here I expect from you, the respected chief state auditor, that what I've told you now is the fact that you repeat the same things year after year. I took the example of shipbuilding because it is the key to the development of industry by construction, it is the key to development because shipbuilding is the bearer of everything and we will not even talk about public procurement. We won't even talk about public procurement, you state it from year to year, a few examples of what kind of public procurement it was when the Croatian roads were done, it is continued, now you describe and manage the public procurement companies, the gram of iron is not invested in the Croatian highway from Zagreb to Split and then Split's iron mill collapsed. So it was much more cost-effective to import, i.e. Then there was a trend in iron collection, and then it would be exported to ships, there in other countries, Turkey or I don't know where iron bangs would be done, of course, and all that was needed in construction, and then we would be re-imported. And at the same time, the iron went down. So it goes on and on with public procurement now, meaning import lobbys, which is why we import eggs because it's unsettled land, we import eggs, e, in Croatia, I mean, there's nothing we don't import, of agricultural goods because of what no man does on this finding. We Parliamentarians can read it now letter by letter, Mrs. Mrak-Taritash said well, my colleague, who will succeed you to have people, these are the questions that we would have to discuss here how to encourage even better the work of the office to have greater financial resources, to achieve even better standards, so that you can monitor the whole, so that you can do all the tasks that are ahead of you in the programme. However, you make an effort, you put everything into us and the parliamentary deputies, this is that in the afternoons, the Rules of Procedure is changed, no one is hearing, nor is it very little being discussed in public. And in fact, this is what it all says. I've been here four years and I've been mostly interested in shipbuilding, so I've been looking for your reports. In each case, you've been reporting the problem. That's what he was talking about and... But you warned about what would happen in the shipbuilding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And nobody from the government can now, no matter who he was, that my chateau was born, it doesn't matter at all, we couldn't say we didn't know this was going to happen in the shipbuilding. And again, it's no problem to save the shipbuilding, invest 5 billion instead of a billion or 10 billion, if we're going to save it, but we're investing it in shipbuilding. And you were just warning that money was being spent on purpose. And now there's going to be a huge problem in the Split shipyard, and we're not going to talk up Oil and what's going on, a huge problem, why? Because there's just no ships, people and they're done. The problem is labour, because they won't be able to pay, the state will have to subsidize them, and at least there will be shipbuilders, because if we don't, we have students who study shipbuilding, it costs. Why are they studying? To export the van, if we don't save the shipbuilding in Croatia. We still have shipbuilding, engineering, these are people who, these are universities created on, due to shipbuilding, mostly. And now those students we're paying, the parents are funding, the state is investing, if we destroy the shipbuilding, where are they going? There's going to be a party, and you're going to be young. So we're schooling kids, so the entire system collapsed, because we didn't listen, at least this report. So someone can't sign the contract and get it, send the shipbuilding owner, get the money for the shipbuilding, and invest in something else. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, because once from the Dalmatian Fire, 60 buses went to the Split Square in the morning, and now two vans. And we know how much the shipbuilding trigger is, I'm now caught up with it, but I can catch up with the agricultural land, I can catch up with the maritime goods, we can talk about local self-government about companies owned by local self-government and states in a local and regional self-government unit. So it's just problems. You will only remain young and those who have political ties, party cards, because in this way, as has been the case so far, one for me, the body that works well is the State Audit Office, I think we should have listened to them more, those who should have listened to them, now we will still be able to discuss it, however, I am sorry that there is no dialogue, but everything reduced in Parliament to a monologue, it is the most difficult thing in this story, targeted, politically, no longer to warn at breaks in a state. We have one two o'clock in the afternoon, so a simple colleague, your effort is a huge effort and you've made an excellent report that's disastrous by the state of the score. It's not your fault, it's the fault of all the government and the management of the Republic of Croatia. But, here, I'm sorry that we, too, the parliamentary representatives, who are not in any large numbers here, are essentially reduced freedom of speech. Here, my fellow MPs can't replicate, so the whole story is... It's important that stability continues as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's good stability for things to change, but this is now, look at our home, no one can replicate their colleague Bacic. Was that your goal? To die Parliament, to serve the government, to serve the government. Was that your goal? You did it now. We have become, Parliament becomes a servant to the government, instead of vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81634	Thank you, Mr. Bull. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of fellow Members Ivan Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81635	With associates, actually the state's chief auditor. I'm glad to find out that there's an excellent summary of one year's work ahead of us. However, there is something I would like to say that in this report, far more widely discussed those directly concerned. And these are primarily the representative bodies of the local self-government unit, Mr. Bulj, I would ask you not to do the circus in this House, this is a very serious topic. And you've had a chance to talk, and no one's ever done any style exercises like you do. So, in this report, as far as local self-government units are concerned, their representative bodies have been discussing. As far as trade companies are concerned, out-of- budget users were discussing the Supervisory Board and the Administrative Board, and also, as far as the state budget is concerned, when the report on the implementation of the state budget was carried out, last year we received a report from the State Audit and we were able to discuss all these items, far more summed up and far better. So that's why and because of the stories that are very often in this House, I'm going to start thinking about the HDZ Club about two things, and later I'm going to try to explain why. So, first of all, and so said the State Auditor, we believe that the State Auditors find, should very often be the basis for certain changes in the legislative framework, because if, year after year, mistakes are repeated, certain errors during the implementation of a certain law, then it is evident that this law must make changes, because obviously someone cannot or does not want to do certain things. If he doesn't want to do them, then there's just some things, and that's the other thing that we're, I'm thinking loudly and thinking, which is that we should impose sanctions. The sanctions for those who do not, after all, you said so too, Mr Klesic, in his opening statement. For those who do not correct what has been observed, what they had the right to manifest themselves to. However, their representative body adopted the state audit report and they are obliged to correct it. But I'll just later, when I talk about some mistakes that occur, imagine that such a mistake happens to a craftsman. The tax inspector comes to him and now he finds it wrong to pay. He will remove everything he thinks is wrong from the expenditure and put into tax unrecognized cost, for this amount will increase his income and on that amount he will have to pay the income tax. And more than that, he'll be prosecuted and punished. And it is minor amounts in relation to what the state audit has found in the users of the state budget and in the users of the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. But let's take it in a row. Therefore, what is most often the case with the units, with the users of the state user, is therefore the most frequently identified irregularities and failures related to the implementation of the tasks and recommendations of the previous audits, planning of accounting operations, financial reporting, assets, income and demand, expenditure and obligations and public procurement. So if that happens over and over again, if there are ministries that have had a conditional opinion for decades, and if the same mistakes are repeated then either something has to change in the laws or it has to be realized that someone will deliberately do something because simply some things have to be interrupted, because it's stupid to repeat them year after year and serve us here for political bickering. Because it is not the point of our debate on the report that we are politically bickering, but the purpose of this debate is to determine whether the public money paid by Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs in the budget of the units of local, regional self-government is still adequately used. And here we are, making laws based on what these money is used. And all together when you close the circle, everything eventually ends up in this assembly. And if we're not going to act that way, then year after year we're going to read the exact same summary of state audit findings. Well, we could almost say copy-paste for a lot of things. And it's certainly something that bothers the state's audit and it's not pleasant, and it's not like there's some things in the House to find out. So I'm saying, two things are supposed to happen, one is to use the state's audit report when changing the law, and the other thing I guess you should eat someone a little bit in your pocket, then they'll start thinking a little differently about some things. Therefore, the financial plans of individual users are not drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Budget Act and the Budgetary Classification Regulation. Now, if someone uses budget funds and the financial plan isn't made in accordance with the Budget Law. So according to which law that financial plan was made. So these are basic things that just shouldn't happen. It can happen in the first, second, third year when the audit starts, but it can't happen in 20 and some year when the audit works. Because that's the elemental stuff. In certain cases, the list of assets and liabilities carried out by certain beneficiaries of the State budget is not complete, in certain cases, the list of claims and obligations has been partially carried out, given that their maturity and legal basis have been established and that the coordination of data with debtors and creditors has not been carried out and the opinion on suspicious and disputed and non-refundable claims has not been drawn up. Now, why don't you get your colleagues and colleagues to find that out with some company, what's going on? So I'm pulling the parallel. There is no difference between those who run accounting and accounting for budget users and those who do so in some company and the errors are completely identical, the errors are completely identical. And we just have to stop it once. Because technical mistakes make it sound like someone doesn't know what they've done. But all these findings go to the office, the state's office, the state's attorney's office. They therefore underestimate and assess whether there is some kind of crime or not. So you'll see in principle that most of these things are infringing nature. If they're infringing nature, then they need to be punished and sanctioned. Nothing different, it's just things that have to happen. And why am I discussing it like this? Well, because I was just on both sides, which is what you say floats. And in a situation where the state audit controlled me and I was at the head of an institution that controlled others. And on one occasion we had her they were wrong, they wrote it like that, we're going to write to them in our own obvious writing, so we wrote an indication and they realized that's the way it is. E and their last and I liked it or didn't like it, I have to lead the situation to that or if I can't bring the situation to that end, then either I will or I will in my ministry, but if another fellow minister is in charge of that area simply talking to him about changing that law and bringing the law into a position to make it enforceable. Then these repetitions won't happen to us. Now look here, some employees have been charged wages with the application of a higher coefficient of complexity of jobs than prescribed for the place of work to which it has been allocated. I think every comment is too high. But this is a summary of the findings. Every comment is too much. And to be clear, this is also 2015 and 2016 and 2017. So you'd say Zagorci... All political options when they were in power can't be treated as if someone was politically attacking someone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's just a fact that can't happen. Because if we've passed the Law on State and public officials' salaries, if we've brought coefficients, if someone based on those coefficients has written a solution to someone, then he can only get paid on the basis of that solution, he can't get a different salary. Or let's say that when you look at the situation with the performance contracts, then it is concluded that in certain ministries a lot of jobs were done more on the contract of action. But then let's also not discuss the budget, then attack this budget user if he wants to hire someone more because apparently with existing capacities he can't do enough jobs. The only thing he has left to hire outside experts. Nothing else. Because look, it's not safe for a single head of the budget user to read this report of the audit that a lot of work contracts have been used, etc., but there's probably a reason why it's been done that way. Or let's say you have an item in one, I think it's a unit of local self-government and even in the state part of a lot of the use of lawyer services. Well, there's probably a reason why. If the subject is of one significant amount, it is known by the lawyer's tariff how much it is. And there's one unit of local self-government that has 10 or 15 million kuna budgets and certainly that amount to the overall budget is terribly large. So I'm saying, these findings are simply because those who use these means and who work can't behave differently. Now look at this why I said you should think about this breaking part and that for that amount you are subject to certain sanctions. So when you have here at the beginning as soon as you talk about units of local self-government, so for 82 units of local self-government determined in past audits, so 575 irregularities and failures. It was found that 315 or 54.8% were handled under them, a warrant and a recommendation with 62, or 10.8% were implemented, therefore it is handled under these findings, which were not followed. So somewhere around 40% of the country's recommendations and findings were not taken to say in the correction process. And now, the wickedness of political debate can come to the conclusion that someone who manages these funds has committed a terrible crime. And that's how it's transmitted, and ultimately it's kind of a technical mistake, because if there were any elements of the crime in this material going to the state's attorney's office, it would sanction it. Now watch what's most common with local self-government units. The maximum number of orders and recommendations not addressed relate to the area of accounting operations, expenditure in the part of the municipal economy and the collection of claims. So not in the part where the business is a unit of local self-government, but in the part relating to the municipal economy. And now there's one question, they don't have all the units equally regulated, say, to collect the utility fee. Some have specially established companies that do this for them, for some do the finance department for finance but it is very interesting that the budgets of some units are not real and... revenue and receipts, as well as expenditure and expenditure, is significantly deviating from the planned majority, although it says the amending budget was adopted at the end of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's obvious why it was done that way. The budget was high, just some things were done, and at the end of the year you can't cut what you've spent. And then what you're gonna do at the end of the year is you're not gonna pay. You have the so-called so-called. The cash principle and the budget ends as it ends but you're making yourself some kind of commitment in the future that you need to solve. Irregularities in the field of accounting operations have been identified in most of the audits of the units covered by local self-government in relation to the management of business books, the recording of business events, the list of assets and the obligation to draw up and carry out financial reports. And now I'm going to go to some thing that I think the state's audit had to do a little more studio and a better report. It's HZZO. That's the topic I was talking about in this House, and I just can't skip it right now. So someone said that the problem of Croatian health care will be resolved if the HZZO is removed from the treasury. HZZO partially separated from the Treasury and became a part of the extra budget user, those national hospitals remained in the budget at the position of the Ministry of Health, the debt in health remained practically identical, regardless of all resolutions. And I think simply as you have found in a bunch of other things you have had to conclude here that with this one paper transaction nothing in principle has been solved, that the problem of health is the structural problem of Croatia that needs to be solved in a different way. It's, I just, it's my remark, that it should simply be constant inside, for the simple reason it hangs in the air. And since time is slowly running out for me, there would be a lot to talk about because when a man reads this material, then you have a lot of things to talk about. And when you don't read it, then you have to repeat several times the same thing to spend 15 minutes. So the HDZ Club will support this finding of state audit. I'm glad that some of the changes in the new State Audit Act are going towards what we said in the club that we should consider. And the logical thing, if you want to have quality, if you want to have the quantity and quality of the audit done then you must also provide material resources to those who do so, both technical support and support for education. And ultimately, with salary, ensure that just the best people don't stay but stay there, educate younger people for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81636	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Next on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81637	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state auditors Mr Klesic with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, in the afternoon and suddenly we have a report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017. This is one of those reports when the left, right, middle side of this House doesn't look at what year it was and whether it was someone ruling or someone opposing it and then depending on how we're going to discuss it and what we're going to say. It's about one remarkable, good and quality material and it's about reading from this if you want everything. You can read trends, you can read what's done at the state level, you can read what's done at the local level. Likewise, the State Audit Office and the law that defined it have come their way. I remember well when the state audit started, which was, as it were, the progress we had. And we came now, I think to one key point again, or we're going to go this way so we have a lot of these conditional opinions and dogs barking, caravans passing or we're going to do it in terms of the law and in terms of a regulatory change. I'm not one of those who thinks they should be dragon measures, it's history shows that when you have a dragon, then it doesn't apply, I think you should always have the possibility, that in football everyone knows that two charts go well, the first yellow, the second red. Likewise, I think when it comes to revisions, there is a possibility, so for the first time everyone has the right to make a mistake and to be confused and the second time there should be a measure. And I think that when we change the law or it's going to be a new law if it's going to be too much of a change that we should go in that sense because now we've come to the point that since we are who we are and we're not going to change that much, we're changing a little bit too, but not much. Even though those who come in know that there was some kind of review so that it was conditional, so nothing happened, so it doesn't matter, I can have a condition. I think it has something to do with it. I can tell the story, or say, it's good when you're on all sides. When you're on all sides, you get one bigger picture. When I ran the ministry, or I was on the principle of the ministry, and when the audit was announced, we were in a story, I said where else and what they're going to do now. But after that first reaction, which is always like this, I said let's see what was the last revision when she was in the ministry, took it and read it. Then I read it, saw what was found, talked to a colleague because both in the ministries and in the units of local self-government and in the companies you have existing people who work and you have people who change depending on the choices where they change depending on the elections but always do about the same people and there are no changes there, made a meeting, let's see what needs to be done and prepared. After we were prepared, the review did its job and we got the report that was exactly the way it was supposed to be, it was unconditional, or we had, we didn't really have a clean one, we had a little thing that we had to do because we're still something, I've already forgotten what, I should take it out, but we should have changed something. The same way I from this pay phone if one of the mayors of the municipality who was elected last year or mayor for the first time, read the report of the state audit that was your predecessor. It'll be the same for you if you don't get ready because it's actually the work of people. And you can get ready, you can change some things. You can do those things that have a series of protocols, a series of things, and you can never make a mistake again. You know, it's like in that movie when a monkey lifts a rock, sees a snake and faints. It rises from unconsciousness, raises the stone again and sees that same snake again and falls unconscious again. Why do you do that? In conclusion about this part of the matter to be taken into account, it should be taken into account that through changes to the law that will be introduced and certain sanctions towards where the same things are repeated because there is no reason to repeat themselves. Besides, it's a cause of indolence or you're doing it on purpose. Well, if you're doing both, it's not good. When it comes to employees at the State Audit Office and the number of employees, when you see that little, it's the same all these years. And when you look at the composition then you see that colleagues who have over 60 and about the same percentage of those who are over 60 and those between 30 and 40 that means that they can change the frames, but they really need to show that they can be interesting, that they can be interesting and something that is the role of our parliamentary representatives. I never heard of it, nor saw that any of us when the budget was said to give up should increase some item of the budget of the Audit Office, it's always been under our radar. And we should remember the following, which is that per employee of the State Audit Office, for education, for education, for progress, 387 kuna is spent annually. So that's absolutely obvious to us all, which means 387 kuna. And what we all need to keep in mind and somehow keep in mind is that knowledge, that education, that perfection is extremely important. And you can do it in one part because you're enthusiastic, because you're interested in something, because you want to be, I'm sure that the whole team that's together with the state's chief auditor goes away satisfied every time because no matter who's talking about us is talking about it, that office is doing well. And that's a fact, that office works well. However, knowledge should be invested, education should be invested. And I'm sure when you read this part of international cooperation no matter where they go they're commended, it shows we're doing a good job. So, somehow, they need to be anointed, and I think it's time that when there's a budget, and I wrote it down specifically for us to try to provide some more funding, so for material costs where the main pay is, but it's about education because it's extremely important that we can compare ourselves with some other countries, so that we can see processes that are in some other countries. I'm not going to talk about this content part of everything, I'm going to talk about three topics that I was particularly interested in. Your first topic is fire departments. And now it's very interesting when you see what the revision found. And he says that when checking former warrants and recommendations in 45 fire departments, 152 warrants and recommendations were given and 78.9% were handled, so 80%. But it shows that out of these 45, 44 fire department audits were for the first time. So it's something that's shown from 45 fire departments, in 44 it was the first time she found out what's wrong with those 152 warrants and recommendations, the second time she saw what they did, they solved 80% of it, and that's the meaning of the review, so the purpose of the review was to come, to determine these can and make mistakes, and that the second time it came to see what was done, but also for those 20% to see why it wasn't done and what happened there. There's one more thing that's the custom with us, and you all know it. When the review comes into one fire organization, I am sure that faster than the fire that is spreading, which they are shutting down throughout Croatia, they came to us, they found it, let's see what it is. And that, among other things, is the meaning of all this and the meaning of that story. There are two more topics that I want to emphasize in this time of year. One topic is maritime well. Maritime good is a story that is absolutely one of the things that we're staring at in a series of facts. One finance minister when I talked to him and when I said what areas we were using maritime well-being, without being regulated and unconcessed, then it turned out to be a mine connected to the possibility of filling the budget. Similarly, this part where the way in which the maritime goods are managed is determined, the part where concessions are not controlled, where they are not charged, is something that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure really needs to be taken into account, and it would be very good to finally get a law that is applicable and what power will be in relation to maritime well-being. And I think it is correct and fair that I also refer to the energy recovery of buildings and the public sector where 2014 and 2015 began when the project of energy reconstruction of buildings and the public sector was launched, audited and shortcomings carried out. On purpose because during that period I was at the head of the ministry, we launched a project of energy reconstruction of public buildings that was for the first time, it was a particular newspaper, there was a lot of problems and I have to admit that I was even satisfied that the audit was going to be done for 2014 and 2015, to see what we were doing at all. I read it carefully, I'd be stricter today than you are. So there are some other things that need to be done better, and the point is that based on this revision, what was done for the energy reconstruction of public buildings, that the mistakes are not repeated and that in the future this energy recovery that is going on, which is now financed by EU funds and we share public buildings by purpose, and that the ones where the users really are 24 hours are shared are hospitals, nursing homes, from where they are partly and in savings. So the biggest savings in public sector buildings, where users are 24 hours and there you can see savings. Where the office is classical, where someone works eight or ten hours, you can't see the savings because part of you don't use in terms of energy, but that savings can be different, but that's the part that really needs to be taken care of for the simple reason, there are a number of things why energy rebuilding buildings matter. First of all, you show that the country that takes care of it, secondly you get buildings that look much better, they're more comfortable to use, thirdly what's most important, which is that you use less energy, you're less polluter in this sense, you show that attitude towards sustainable development, you show your attitude towards environmental protection. And in this report, it was particularly important to me, and I have a little time left, but part of the test to carry out the warrants and recommendations. So that's what's being checked and that check is set up next, and that's that 32% of the recommendation hasn't been made, 419 subjects have issued a total of 2764 warrants. And what's important, 3 recommendations, or implementing 3 recommendations. The first is an audit of the effectiveness of prevention and detection of fraud has been found to have been achieved by satisfactory progress with companies owned by units in the area of 16 counties, and has not been achieved by a company owned by two counties, I am sure to ask you all together here who are sitting and where else, I think the answer would be correct, of course in the city of Zagreb. The audit of the economic justification is then a difference in the prices of water services and it is again shown that there is no progress in companies owned by 3 counties and a recommendation from the revision of the economic justification for the difference in the prices of transport collection and disposal of municipal waste. No matter where we come from, we know that waste is one of the important things that this country, and for God's sakes, will deal with, I'm sure this whole century and there's been seen the difference between the Istrian County and the Primorje-Gorski County and there's progress in companies owned by the Istrian County, and there's no business company owned by the Primorje-Gorski County. Finally, we have an extremely high-quality document. The result of this document should, in fact, be roughly two facts. One fact is that the time has come to change the law and that some things are defined differently because in this way we have come to something different and we need to define it, I am talking absolutely about sanctions of those who get recommendations, who get a conditional opinion, and that conditional opinion has been repeated for years because what I said is really what I said, either indolence is either about negligence or it's about not wanting, so everything is wrong. And the other thing that needs to be read out of this is really somehow for all who are at the head, regardless of the units of local or regional self-government, regardless of the state level, read the audits that were and use them when changing and supplementing the law because of these recommendations a lot to read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81638	Thank you, colleague Anki Dark-Taritash. That's what we're done with the debates on behalf of the clubs. We continue with individual discussions. We have an individual discussion. This is colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81639	Thank you very much. The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the State Audit. Here, I want to say something about the 2017 review report. The fact is that every year we've been discussing the report for the past year and I think we're on time, we've been a little behind, but here we are, 2017. The audit has also been visited by state bodies, ministries, agencies, seductions, regional self-government and, of course, the most local self-government and what can be read from this report is that, as always, in the last few years, something more difficult can be hidden without being seen by the professionals who are conducting the audit and that this is not a certain level of recommendation that needs to be corrected. Often, the revision is viewed by perhaps a body that, perhaps perception is guilty, a body of persecution, and in fact you're an advisory body and people often change it or misread it, so the audit reports in local self-government are the best topic for everyone to argue and someone to blame for something, and the fact is that the recommendations are something that should be to the leading people of local self-government in fact be the direction in which local self-government should be guided. Congratulations to you and to your international successes that you said something about today, and I think that's one recognition that follows everything that we've said in the past here in the Parliament, clearly, on the findings of the audit in all areas. When we look at user reviews, the ones you evaluated, both conditionally and negatively or unconditionally, the fact that you have 84% of the fives and 14% of the fours, 2% of the threes, that there are no, except maybe one unit, if I saw correctly. He certainly wasn't satisfied with his work primarily, and then less with yours, but that there is great trust in your work. And it should certainly be emphasized and welcomed because local leaders also become aware that you are actually help, not anything more than that. It is not easy to say, not even to the local self-government because the daily sea rules, the law simply gives more and more obligations to local self-government and it is likely that mistakes that are repeated or simply not resolved in the year or you are surprised by the revision, so you came or you stayed unprepared. When we look at the state bodies, only HAVC and the Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products received a negative opinion, which apparently resulted in some of the moves that took place within those agencies during 2017. What are the most common tips or recommendations of the revision? Mostly in the case of income or revenue collection, it is ineffective or large amount of revenue that is simply not charged in local self-government for a number of reasons. The fact is, it's not easy to collect income. It bothers every mayor, the mayor. It's simple, well sometimes the laws we form here go in favor of not exactly them, but citizens. We have just something in preparation that we will certainly have a debate on how and how to charge something because simply, regardless of the procedures, numerous reminders, conversations, and agreements and meal payments, people simply or not have, or sometimes there are those we can say, who do not want to pay. They don't want to pay for the waste, they don't want to pay for the utility fee or the feeling that the system has a certain gap. It's not effective in the part if you don't care about it. The second is recommended, i.e. Recommends or where the biggest observations are made is the application of public procurement laws. Since 1.1, however, we have a new law in force, but the fact is that within local self-government, a simple daily life requires a very large number of those small purchases that are most often and controversial. Sometimes you really need to react quickly or effectively when the problem occurs, and there is no time. And there you should make certain maybe reasons different from what is recommended, but simply respect the Law. When we see from a total of 575 recommendations to local self-government, 200 have not yet acted according to recommendations. So almost half, a little bit less, let's say 2/3 yeah, 1/3 we left for some future time. I've been looking at a reference here, for example, to pay for legal services and media monitoring, where you say it means that it should be specified. When you talk to lawyers, they see it a little differently. Especially in the media space, when you tell him so you tell me, or write to me how many announcements you've had in my, I don't know, municipality or my institutions that you've been following, tourist community, some centres, events, etc., says, so I'll give you a don't know, number of clicks or it pleases you, or how many views there have been on your pages, is that enough for you or how many times I've gone out on the ground to determine what you've done or what you've done, and that I've published it. When we talk about lawyers, they say, so my opinion of your act is enough so I can say that something can or can't be charged. Anyway, I'm saying, there's a lot of different things here, but it's good to warn that local leaders know what to do next. When we talk about procurement plans, we certainly need to clearly plan each purchase at the beginning of the year, change over the year, but the fact is that when we look at some local self-government, we see that one doesn't want to pay the income for years, at least as far as I'm monitoring these findings of state audits, means that they're related to the sale of dwellings where they were resident rights. One local self-government, and this big city doesn't want to pay the state for years for what it owns and that's repeated from the audit findings, the 2014 audit report, '15, '16. And of course what happened to that leader? Nothing. He's still handling it his way. And when we look at this city that I know is in seven observed areas he has in six practically continuous repetitions of the same irregularities. What happened? Again, nothing has practically happened, even though your beliefs are advice and what you establish good intentions. And now what is the mayor's relationship to the State Audit? That's the question. Why doesn't he really want to? If he can't, he doesn't have the resources, so he's in trouble, but the fact is that you've charged something and that part that belongs to the state you didn't give to the state. Some people are treated severely, such things are viewed in a slightly different way. When we look at political parties, it turns out that they are the best in terms of the audit itself or that. in relation to what is recommended, what has been done or what has been found. We have 22 unconditional opinions, 12 conditional and 1 unfavourable political parties. That's the only place we have with a fireman a greater number of unconditional opinions than the ones on parole. And let's just say that political parties are the worst in public perception when we look at both local self-government and state bodies. And they're running their finances obviously, perhaps by what the audit says, in the best way possible, of course, with all these mistakes. And since you're celebrating St. John's Day, Florian we see that the firefighters indeed, here's a congratulatory card to everyone on their day, showed that already in the first finding, what little funds it gets from local and regional self-government and state-level really are effective at using when they have clearly those other moments in their actions. And the fact that they are volunteers to work willingly and to appreciate every kuna that is directed to them in their small budget and thus create truly great works for all of us. And I think here's again all the praise of the revision, congratulations on your international successes, and I hope that every year as politicians, both local and regional and state-level, we will be better at your opinions than in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81640	Thank you very much. We have replicas. He's a colleague of Bacic's first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I join my colleague Borić with congratulations on the work of the State Audit Office and the reports that the office has provided us from year to year always systematic, transparent and quite well depicted by the work of the body for which the central office audits. What I meant to say was that you encouraged me when you were saying that certain remarks by the State Audit Office are repeated year after year. In particular, I would refer to the fact that the State Office for the Review year after year states that there is no regulated system of maritime goods records and year by year, and here the chairman was for a time responsible for the work of the Ministry, and a new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports is promised from year to year that the law could allow for faster identification of the maritime goods border and then the maritime goods records in the land book. We have made a bill of law as a club of representatives, so I believe the ministry will come out with a whole new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81642	Thank you very much. Here's hoping that's what's gonna happen. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81643	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, when you were the minister they promised us from Christmas to Christmas that law would be, but the past term didn't come, another Christmas and the other one passed, but hopefully we have now an ambitious minister and we hope that in 2018, this law, as far as I can tell, will be here in debate and that we will discuss it for at least two days if he deserves it. And maritime well-being is a question that everyone is plagued by both regional self-government and local most because it is in its field, we are all responsible without much authority, and the state is there to record certain revenues that are obviously not realised in that way either. But here's what I'm saying with good review recommendations, we're hoping it'll help a little bit of those who write the laws to make it an effective law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81644	Thank you very much. The next replica is from counterpart Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81645	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Boric. Eight Christmases are over, so to accurately detect, this will be the ninth since the law's announcement. However, my replica does not refer to the fact that it must be a painful point not only of the legislation but also of the management of maritime good but of something else. So when you see observations relating to units of local self-government and companies, an awful lot of remarks are related directly or indirectly to the Law on the Communist Economy. Since we had the Law on the Communal Economy in our first reading, it has caused a heated, heated debate and is preparing for a second reading. It seems to me that this is exactly the right time to compare with the Law on the Community Economy and second reading with the recommendations from the State Audit findings, especially when it comes to companies owned by units of local self-government, and knowing that the local self-government unit does so in different ways. So it would be good if we could put these recommendations into the Law on the Communist Economy just as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81646	Thank you very much. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81647	Thank you very much. Comrade Mrak-Taritash, I agree with what you said, and I think that through the debate on the new Law on the Communist Economy, we will also respect a part of what the audits have observed. The fact is that the biggest reluctances may be in the smallest local self-governments that don't have municipal societies, so they give it to legal and physical persons, so they make certain mistakes. Somehow for those who have their own communal societies it is easier to work through annual contracts where they can show both the quantities and all that is done when the council or the municipal to agree to a certain level of contract, I think it is already transparent enough to happen. And now not everyone's ready, we have local self-government of several employees, so we have a lot of employees, and everyone has equal laws and equal tasks which create little problems, especially for those who have only a few employees, and they have to work as big cities under all the same laws and almost equal, they almost have obligations, which of course creates a problem in functioning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81648	Thank you. Next replica, counterpart Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81649	Thank you, Vice President. You said in your statement that the results of the revision of the units of local self-government are in a certain way and advised and that it could be useful for quality management of the local self-government unit. I agree with you here, but here I would like to say that neither the local self-government units are always guilty of any budget-planning failures, is there an observation here that some of them have over-inflated their budgets, especially when it comes to EU projects where they have to prepare the project, plan ahead of funding and co-financing and then wait for more than a year for the ministry to respond to the competition, i.e. to get the results of the competition, which happened this year. I therefore expect that everyone will implement the law and comply with the deadlines, then it will be easier to audit and units of local self-government in implementation and functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81650	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81651	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vlaović, so perhaps this is what you said, but there is a Budget Law, it is clearly a familiar moment when he must react to the local self-government leader, when he sees when it is time that what he planned in the 12 months last year, did not happen in the 5th or 6th or 9th month, he must react, it clearly gives him the law. Why are some waiting until the last minute, I don't know. But mostly they know for themselves what they must do to align what they planned wrong, as the state and every unit of local or regional self-government does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81652	A colleague of Grodana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81653	Here's an esteemed colleague, I can also, in any case, commend a significant job doing the State Audit Office. And here's directly to that I assure myself every time it's covered. What I'd like to say more, and it's also about communal compensation and claims that are charged. Indeed, I, as well as my colleague, hope that the Law on municipal compensation, i.e. on the municipal economy, will change and change in the part where the municipal fee is, should now be declared public revenue, which will then be much easier to collect, because I know what it looks like on the other hand. What is also important to say is that the recommendations of the State Audit Office are important, which gives us in that part of the management and records of property in the units of local self-government that are extremely important for the management of this property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81654	Thank you. Answer, here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81655	The problems of billing Mrs. Peric are simply the everyday life of every local self-government and it is up to us here that, while we are already passing laws and coming from local levels, we may be able to make it easier for ourselves. So sometimes we're here about, say, communal contributions, the state took care of itself, so you can choose to follow the water contribution before the building permit, and the rest of you can when you get a building permit. If there were one and the other before, there'd be trouble again. Now it's a question of who and how to help or make it easier, whether we want to respect citizens, etc. I think that every effort of local self-government in terms of fighting for citizens, but also for its own incomes, and that is where the measure is to be found, and I think that the revision also has its own measure in terms of what we're going to write, which is better or worse or what has to be done, and I think that the mayors are now a little bit more and more and the mayors are really trying to make, with all the technology available at the end, a maximum of good for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81656	Thank you. Representative Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81657	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Another report from the office, I can't estimate exactly what I was looking at, and I have to admit, what the effect of that report is. I would ask Mr. Boric how many officials there are in the Republic of Croatia, officials, percapitals and how this compares with other EU countries, etc.? I know in the former South we had hundreds of thousands there,... By the office, this all sounds good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What do I care? It's a gray economy. What's the percentage? How much money was paid back by those who didn't pay taxes at the state's register? What's going on in the field? Where are the tax shelters? Corporate thieving, etc. I don't have a clue. Without simple laws, these reports always turn out like this. It's called in the army all tails, and there's no teeth. This is why you have municipal waste, you have 5km from Zagreb, there looks like Nagasaki or like a Kuta there today as a Kuta. There are no simple laws and implementations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81658	Thanks, buddy. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81659	In 2017, Mr Glasnović, the State Audit Office has 279 employees, of which only 2 officials, and in 2013 it was 277. And we have heard that 29 of them have retired and that the number is smaller, and the body that is watching over you and you are talking about, means the servants of both the ministries and the offices and the agencies, and certainly their finding of what they are doing and their way of doing better. And I'm sure they won't do anything they shouldn't do by watching what it says. It's just a question of how much they want to read what someone writes to them, and then it goes from top to top to bottom, and they understand what they're doing and how to solve it so there's no mistakes next year. It is not necessary to treat civil servants in this way, but I think they certainly have the right to progress and progress and to be better based on and such reports as we are discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81660	Thank you. And the last replica, Mouse Hansel.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81661	Thank you, Vice President. I'll fight my friend. I would refer to my fellow Glasnovic. I think the audit is doing a good job and thank God that you're there and that maybe you're the only light point I'd say that controls something and that through your report over the last two years that I've been monitoring that was a report without it being for grandmothers and uncles. I know you don't judge, you don't persecute, that's what DORH and all the other institutions that should be doing, unfortunately they didn't do their good work. And so the local self-government should take care of their investments and their consumption and take care of their cities and their environments, of course there are good ones that should be commended, and of course there are those who, we can say, are free to destroy their cities, their neighborhoods, so I can say that about my Slavonia where I live, that we can only complain and praise nothing so far even though it's been spent a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81662	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81663	Thank you very much. Comrade Misic, here, if you read carefully, there are two negative opinions in local self-government today. I think there was something even in the media around those leaders. The fact is, what I said at the beginning, nothing else hides that. Local leaders must be careful, watch what they are doing and, of course, respect what is written for them as a task for the next time until the revision comes and gets better than they were at the time when the audit was made, and the fact is that it is wrong and it has always been wrong and it is likely to be wrong in the future, but it does not necessarily mean that everyone is bad or catastrophic because in this finding there are those who have received a nice unconditional opinion and are certainly satisfied with it much more than those who have received a conditional opinion, especially negatively. It's one of the motives and local self-government to be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81664	Thank you. And now on behalf of the Representatives' Club final, colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go. ... There's no replica. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81665	Thank you very much. Here we see that today a very important report by the State Audit Office, where a dialogue should be developed, a debate on the work of the Audit Office, has been quickly broken down. The fact is that this possibility we got today without an announcement that it would be held this week, at all this week, not today. But it's also a fact, when we talk about what I said on behalf of the MOST Club, and also in this debate now that was brief, the State Review did its job, but in the report there are desperate things that repeat from year to year. The simple meaning of the whole story was that this was sent here at some point for debate to the Parliament when it was going to be under the radar, when it was less important, when the simple public couldn't hear a single report that year after year, repeated the same things, which negative opinions, but the conditional opinions you gave on public money management, public welfare management, only when you mentioned maritime well-being, when you mentioned agricultural land, where it's non-transparent from both local and state level, you mentioned that the Land Law was made. But it's not all that. When the local leaders are mentioned here, we are all from some local level, then everyone mentions here that citizens do not pay utility fees, everything they have to pay, and nobody will mention teleopers to build their infrastructure in Croatia without any obligation to pay, without any construction permits. However, they do not do so in their own countries. If they paid for it, they'd be full and budgeted. Well, it can't be mentioned because teleopers are strong advertisers in the media, they have good media space. That's why I put the law in the procedure today, aware of all these mines, and I hope we accept it. Because it's better to fill the local budget, not to be able to build base stations where they can think of kindergartens, hospitals, schools, alone, no fees, no local leaders' consent, no neighbor's consent. However, it is possible in the Republic of Croatia. But it's not the State's audit. No, you did your job. You can sleep well. At this time, however, give this up in the debate and in this home that has been devoid of meaning to the new Rules of Procedure. Here, I'm asking everyone to replicate this now, so let them say, if they can and if they'll let them preside if I can replicate. So, you killed the debate in parliament, you took away the freedom of speech, you reduced the right to speak... that no one can debate now and prove the opposite. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think my colleague Bacic is going to give me a replica because there's a problem with maritime goods in Korčula, there's all kinds of things, but he can't rephrase me right now. And why can't he replicate? Now, that's the problem because he asked that there be no debate in parliament, that parliamentary deputies sleep on issues like this, that the executive authority that has to be here at any moment as the authority to come out and there's no debate on this subject. Here, we've passed a dozen agenda points today. Let's lock, let's go, power is no longer in parliament where it should be, where the government should serve us, and this is how you've made Parliament, and you've made most of them who voted for the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately both HDZ and SDP voted for this Rules of Procedure, because you can't hear the voice of those who will speak, you can't hear the voice, but be one monoton story, and that's how it is, and we see that this revision, as I said in the shipbuilding of billions, in agriculture billions, in local self-government negative opinions, in all spheres negative opinions. Here, gentlemen of the State Audit, Mr. Chief State Auditor, your effort is so much, you've done your job, but the fact that currently in the Republic of Croatia is trying to build a Pharaoh system, the system that the government is here, as if the prime minister was directly elected, and not that we are parliamentary representatives who decide and I'm sorry that it is. The public notices that there is no more debate, no more debate, no attention has been paid from Parliament's payphones and parliamentary deputies, home where the people chose us, according to the government. So, Andrej Plenkovic, a colleague of Bačić, succeeded, you served him well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81666	Thank you very much. Otherwise, fellow Bull, you could've been single. We'd have replicas on that, and then we'd have conclusions. But there you go. That concludes the debate. I thank the main state auditor and colleagues for the active debate, and we will vote when the conditions are met. This concludes today's work because we've exhausted all the points of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow, Comrade Bull, just a second. Tomorrow we will proceed at 9.30 p.m. with the proposal for a decision on member resolution, appointment of a member of the Committee on Fiscal Policy, and I would like to inform you technically that there is no vote tomorrow. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 16.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-03-0.u81667	The report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017 is the main national auditor. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the work of the State Audit Office for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 votes for, 2 abstentions, have reached a conclusion in line with the proposal of the Assembly's home working body.
