ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66741	Thank you, I'd like to talk, asking for a 10-minute break to talk about the media space in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66742	A colleague of the Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66743	Thank you very much. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club GLAS and HSU and the topic is climate change, floods and slides.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66744	A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66745	I am looking for a break on behalf of the club MOST for 10 minutes, the current political situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66746	I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66747	Mr. President, we'd like to say something about the space for the spread of freedom in South America in the late 40s.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66748	He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66749	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, I am looking for a 10 minute break to discuss the state of democracy in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66750	Okay. That's it, we move on at 9.50. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The first is a colleague named Željko Glasnović, a representative club independent of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66752	Dear colleagues. Today I'd like to speak, colleagues, colleagues, colleagues and other natural persons, transgender. I'd like to talk about this one, one key topic today, and that's the media space in the Republic of Croatia. Here, some things have been repeated before I speak today, but here, we'll talk about it again. This is an important topic because we live in a world where false perception of events is important, and it is not an important substance. Here, for example. When we talk about media wars, about a war in virtual space, China has an entire army, a whole army sitting behind computers and creating virtual perceptions of the world in China and doing censorship. Whatever it isn't, whatever it is against the party, it's censoring. Of the 100-year-old texts, of the classic literature, it's done nonstop. There's a similar situation in Russia. Putin also has his brigade behind the computer. What's the situation in the Republic of Croatia? The situation is like that, we're not so organized, but we still have the remains of the Agit-prop machine formerly in the Croatian media. What's their job? To hide and suppress the truth. That's what they do all the time. They've been polluting media space for decades and doing media. They're doing it systematically, here. Who are these people? If they were working for politics, they were writing for Paulette, they were co-workers of TANJUG, they were co-workers of these former secret services, and you had to be. If you were working for TANJUG, you got a visa for Australia and you had to type someone up. That's right. They were social officials and where they worked, they were under a lot of pressure censorship because you in the former South could pull a newspaper article in 24 hours. You've been told exactly what you're going to write, what you won't write. This mental circuit was transferred to today's Croatia, here. What are their tactics? When we speak, we know that, behold, the penitent Mr. Kekic, Željko Kekić, I think from Karlovac, a former UDBA associate, said that it had entered the Croatian secret services and other institutions of the state 800 former UDBA associates at a strategic level, and we are not talking about that tactical level, where maybe every fourth man worked for those services as a shoemaker or a petty snitch, a neighborhood rat. How do they work? ... You have 20 more laws on disinformation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't mention them all. One of these is an open lie, where they lie openly, and you don't have this one, because in the Republic of Croatia there's no defamation, you don't have legal mechanisms. They do it all the time, one week's most doing it, which is UDBA this, the foundations of that weekly set up by UDBA, and if it were a legal state, they'd have so many lawsuits against themselves, they'd go bankrupt if they paid for it, but they still do. You also have the so-called so-called. Asks the asshole where you take 10% of the lies, wraps up 90% of the truth and places it in public. And also vice versa, because half-life is much more dangerous than the truth. Here, for example. You hear in the media room that General Zagorac is Franjo Tudjman's illegal son, it's a deliberate misinformation. As prime minister, you have manipulations in web forums, where the topic is being seduced and where it turns from the main topics, let's say, to reveal the truth. And so, that's one, that's some of those tactics, and why is that done? This is because these people want to deny the existence of the Croatian state. They've been from that country since the beginning. They used to go to Belgrade, now they're going to Brussels. And one thesis that there was a civil war, another thesis here that nothing happened before the '90s. Mr. and why we don't know the roots of privatisation, where the copper bills are UDBA, who's happy for these services, etc. What about social property? You hid it like a snake's foot. You have their dictionary, they also took over the dictionary, the clerofasticist, the homophob, the racist, are you going to discredit someone, it's their jargon, but you don't need this one, you need to look for the truth and like Christ the truth suffers and doesn't die and we need to fight for that truth, and we can only do that if we know the tactics of the enemy that's still here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66753	Second debate, honorary colleague Anka Mrak Taritas, GLAS Club and HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66754	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, no matter what our entire space, somehow and debates in the House are in context, here is the announced Istanbul Convention and ratification of the same, I would nevertheless use this pause and talk about a problem that has appeared and will not be solved by itself, and even less will solve any paper. The other day we had a discussion here about stock reserves, and then I was in the debate saying that the result of the rain, the result of the melting snow would certainly be floods, and the consequences of these floods would be glides. I didn't really want to be a bad prophet and suggest anything to the villain, but my people, they're facts. Climate change is facts, climate change is due to human activity. It's the same glider, it's where a man used to do something. Whether he pulled the infrastructure, the water, the drain, and it didn't work, he allowed certain layers of land to come. These slides, therefore, deal with the skating problem in general with layers of land geologists, and there are also special professions called geomechians, who deal with them, who know what to do and know how to resuscitate. In Croatia, a small town along the Una, there was a flood which was nothing strange about them, because it is a place, therefore, a place that was flooded. When you have a flood, the water comes, the water goes away, and you can repair that damage. But there, however, a hill called Grandpa slipped away. It slid away in a way that destroyed 600 objects, permanently, 7 was unused and still a series of objects that could not be used. What's important is that the waist has to be activated, which is important that it has to react immediately. And what we need to know is, there's no construction there anymore at the ice rink, there's no reconstruction of those houses, there's no rehabilitation of those houses, there's a glider recovery. The catastrophic floods, which were in the territory of Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, were in the area, where it did not cause skating for a simple reason because the soil composition was such. But remember those pictures that were from Bosnia where the mud took the houses, our experts worked there, worked on the skating site, worked on options to solve it. Among other things, when you talk to experts a little, then there are some who claim that in the problem of waste management, especially when it comes to construction waste, that construction waste in certain ways and technologies can be used to resuscitate rinks, but that some other products can be used. Why I used this break and why I'm talking about the rinks. This is a message to the government, that it has to do something, and the first thing it has to do is consult experts not to do crazy things, not to let people go back there, go to the skating site, and people who live there who are potentially in danger of their housing problem being solved elsewhere. How can you do that? First and foremost, talk to the experts and then offer a model. When I saw what happened in Croatia, the first thing I did was pick up the phone and call my 2.3 colleagues who deal with it and ask what to do, how to do. Did someone contact you, did they talk to anyone at all? It's about top experts, whose corporate business they're dealing with, they said they didn't. Since today is the cabinet session and tomorrow is the government's session, and apparently according to the announcements we have seen in the media, some decisions will be made. First and foremost, therefore, there are some facts. First and foremost contact experts who understand. I'm sure none of us would go, let's say, do a appendix surgery, it's one of those usual surgery, you cut it a little bit, you take out the appendix, you cut it again, and that man feels like it's very simple. However, we are very inclined to make half a solution when it comes to such a problem. First contact the experts, secondly really fence that space and don't let any human sacrifice happen, and thirdly, what we need to know, when the slide is activated, in such a large area, it's like the first basic result of man's action, absolutely building space, renovating the slide, and houses and people have to move to another place because the reconstruction of existing houses is like throwing money out of the window, and that certainly doesn't want any of us to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66755	Thank you. Third debate, respected colleague Bozo Petrov, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66756	Thank you. Dear colleagues, citizens. There are two options that can be discussed in public space. You have on one side the theme of Ustasha, Partisan, ideological wars. On the other hand, you have all the changes that need to be made in Croatia so that all of us can live better no matter how much it costs us. Why the rulings always choose their first option. I think it is best to clarify the current president of the Parliament with his anthological statement recently. To quote: “A understanding rather than a heart.” We must not endanger the ruling coalition, read the authority and paraphrase“ everything for a chair, a chair for nothing. ” And then that's how you've been sailing for the last year and a half from the merciless to the unloved. There are no crucial clear decisions, so a commission is created to deal with the past which, after a year, makes no decision, no scream, no past. Then instead of clearing something up, it was clouded so that the Agrockor investigation committee was abolished so as not to put the government at risk. When it comes to reacting to illegal things like advisory salaries, setting up jobs for friends by the ministries, scandals in ministries, demographics. Our Prime Minister flies 20 days to the Bahamas, a parallel universe, to the palaces so as not to endanger power. And because of this country's leadership, we got the following. The European Commission has assessed us as negative as possible. So we belong to three countries that have been assessed unacceptablely or irreparably. We're in an excessive imbalance, GDP is slowing down, industrial production has been dropping for three months in a row, public debt has exceeded 300 billion, our country is melting as an iceberg. Comrade Bacic, when was the last time you talked to the HDZ Club about these subjects for four hours? When did you talk about the issues in Agrokor? When were you talking about agriculture? About leaving the people of Croatia? If only we could stand up for reform like this. I dream of the day when the Prime Minister will come and tell his MPs if we don't fix the situation, if we don't reform the public administration we're going to go to elections, half of you won't be there. If, now imagine this situation, if we don't make a reform of the judiciary and this doesn't become a fair country we go to elections, half of you won't be there. That'd be great! You see, in the movement of remains and legal initiatives that we've launched to keep people here without Ustasha, no partisans, no ideological wars. The proposals for our judicial laws are measures that this can be a fair country, yet there are not the same topics that you impose. In measures to make the economy stronger, how to make public administration more efficient again, there is no Ustasha, Partisan, ideological wars. But all of this current president of the Parliament says it's chatter. I'm afraid because of the struggle for the chair and the security of the government, you've lost sight of what's important. The Croatian man does not live from Ustasha, from partisan, from ideology. You're the only one who lives on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66757	Here's my colleague Bačić, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66758	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 238. Rules of Procedure. A colleague of Peter’s demeans me by mentioning myself in his speech, so you should have given him a warning. In addition, my colleague Petrov does not know how to read or read, and since I see that the information draws from the press was not a session of the club of colleagues Petrov but a session of the Presidency of the Croatian Democratic Community, where I say the session did not last 4 hours, but was an ordinary session of the club. So that's not true either. Then, when you follow, you read, then you express your attitudes as they are, not as it seems to you, as you would like them to speak. A colleague of Petrov's that you wander around the halls of Parliament and Croatia HDZ also works at the meetings of the Presidency and at the meetings of the club and at the meeting of the government and thus sees and manifests the work of the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66759	My colleague Bačić, I do not think there has been any injury to the Rules of Procedure because these opinions are being held on the breaks, and I have also been mentioned as the President of the Parliament as well as one of the quotes in the papers, with a title that does not correspond at all to what I said, so I have not found myself offended, we already consider that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Col. Petrov says what he thinks is right, which is also not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66760	The chairman of the Rules of Procedure's breach under Article 238, for the reason why, I shall quote you yesterday, there are false things. So, I didn't quote, I asked you, and since you gave Mr. Bačić to use the Rules of Procedure's breach institute as a replica, I'm going to use the same time as a replica because he had no right to do so. Since I didn't quote my colleague Bačić that your club lasted four hours, I asked him when you were going to discuss important matters in the club for four hours. That's what I asked. You didn't listen well. You didn't listen well. And what is more important to your colleague Bačić, start discussing important things, start imposing important things in public space, and start solving important things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66761	This was all also very important now very important for the standard of our citizens that is currently happening between us. My friend Bulj, here's something important to fill in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66762	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Article 238 Dear President, whether it matters or not, you don't have to listen at all, you can. You're only here chairing the same as me and my colleague Bačić who's hardwired time for a good ten seconds. And they cut half the time [[No, it's not true. Don't tell the truth.]] And you're looking for 30 seconds. [[Intruder President: Don't speak false, he spoke precisely at the time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66763	Yeah, when it does, it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66764	And this has been transferred now. Therefore, I would ask you to be the president of all parliamentary representatives, but when you comment then comment when your colleague Bacic speaks, not only when they speak to colleagues from the Most and you have the custom of commenting on the break, which you do not have You took advantage of the law yesterday. [[No, it's not true. /]] You have injured the article from the first to the last and your conduct is not appropriate to the president who, in this case, is also the MPs of Most and the SDP and the Living Wall, not just HDZ. [[Bulj fellow president: Time's up.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66765	So this is how I am now asking you to do this, and I refused to hurt my colleague Bačić's Rules of Procedure, so I wasn't biased and don't insinuate. I also did not mention or look back at what my colleague Petrov was saying about me, which also did not suit the truth. So I let everyone say what they want and don't call me now. Let's move on, my colleague Arsen Bauk is working on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66766	Thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't mind you looking back after my presentation, even wishing, at least in this case. So, after World War II, many Germans were right in Argentina seeking and finding a place of freedom in which they could witness their patriotism and highlight the legitimate demands for freedom of the German people and country. Among other things, the team included Adolf Eichmann, Josef Mengele, and many others prominent, but less known freedom fighters where they can witness their patriotism. If Angela Merkel had made that statement in Buenos Aires during some of her visits to Germany, she would probably have had a debate about whether she would be put in jail after returning to Germany or another institution. When it says something similar to the Croatian president then the reaction in Croatia has it but it is slightly smaller, so it can say it. The testimony of the area of freedom and patriotism after World War II in Argentina was given by both Anti Pavelic and Dinko Šakić, Ivo Rojnica, Branko Benzon and numerous other members of the Ustasha emigration. Of course, I am not generalising that all those who, after World War II, Croatians went to Argentina to be members of the Ustasha movement and their officials, but in a context in which it was said and especially after some statements afterwards, the President of the Republic must explain this statement well. I mean, after that, we had another case. At the reception of the President of the Republic, I quote: "In view of the sovereign policy, it is necessary to change the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic because it is not true that the foundations of the modern Croatian state are the decisions of the ZVNOH, the Constitution of the National Republic of Croatia and the Constitution of the Socialist Republic". Furthermore, "Instead of ensuring the country's neutrality towards past conflicts and overcoming the old divisions forever, this preamble of Yugoslavia's political ideological interpretation of Croatia's newer history has been legalised and has become the official position of the Republic of Croatia, which is being discriminated against both on both professional and political terms." The President of the Republic has one custom when he goes to Pazin then boasts... and the non-partisan, when he goes to Argentina then the ones who escaped in '45. and later, freedom and patriotism fighters, when they go to Lisinski to the Serbian National Council, then she is their president, when she goes to Vukovar, then Serbia and Croatia are not friendly countries, etc. Therefore, this kind of political action leaves a very high mark on the credibility of the President of the Republic, and it would be better to choose his political position and to stick to him both in Pazin and Vukovar, both in Lisinski and Buenos Aires. Otherwise, every time she goes somewhere, we're gonna have to guess what she's gonna say, and then maybe she better not go anywhere. But to refer in the end and to what is said, therefore, ZVNOH was and will be the foundation of the modern Croatian state, and neutrality towards past conflicts would mean equating fascism and anti-fascism, and while our living heart beats it here will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66767	And we're going to the last debate, the esteemed colleague Branimir Bunjac Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66768	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would like to draw attention to the recent statement by Andrej Plenkovic, which best paints the model led by the current strongest party in Croatia, and thus also by the state. I quote: “What did you think this convention would bring down the government? If someone is going to tear down the government, then it will be me and then we will go to parliamentary elections where I will put the lists together, and there will be no half of you." So we learn that the survival of the government depends not on coalition partners nor on party bodies, nor on successes, or failures, but solely on the will of one individual, namely Andrej Plenkovic. And then he'll bring down the government, only if his owners don't obey him. Here we learn the truth about democracy in Croatia, we see that Plenkovic has an inexplicable power to put together lists for elections to which he puts only those people who rule him and who never contradict him. Lists are attended exclusively by those who are good to the head of the party, who are blindly executed without discussion and who are willing to lick themselves. If, by any chance, someone cancels obedience to him, eliminates himself by acting like he never existed, erases everything he's done for 15 or 20 years and becomes a political dead man without the right to return. It doesn't matter if a man's working according to his conscience, whether he's honest or honest, the only thing that matters is he's on the boss's line. The HDZ, therefore, is the private company of a man who rules it because he draws up lists for the parliament and appoints candidates for local elections. HDZ members are afraid to be who they are because they are being blackmailed and intimidated by a dictatorship in the party. And it is interesting to note that it is not about the elimination of a few individuals as publicly claimed but as at least half of the HDZ members. So out of the current 60 HDZ deputies in Parliament, 30 of them are obviously excess. Why half the members if the party is as unique as the president of the HDZ Club Bacic claims? Will Mr. Bačić or the Prime Minister list this occasion the 30 representatives of HDZ the enemies of Andrej Plenkovic, respectively... Is it just Mr. Brkic, Kovac, Kliman, Culej, Stier, Tudjman, perhaps Djakic and Celic or are there other members who are therefore enemies of the prime minister? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The prime minister's brief statement finally gives us the right answer to the question of why the amendments to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure have taken place, the arrest of people for commenting on Facebook and why amendments to the Election Law are being announced. Only because it was ordered by Andrej Plenkovic. He cannot bear that anyone has a different opinion than his which shows that he actually came to Croatia on a mission. European bureaucrats chose a suitable moment and this was the fall of Karamark and the fall of the HDZ rating by 10% below the SDPs to install their man to discipline HDZ in order to implement their directives without greater resistance, and let's say so without any renunciation. As a reward for the job done, Andrej Plenkovic was promised a well-paid place in Brussels which we can see from the media these days. This confirms what I have long since established in this House of Higher Education, which is that Andrej Plenkovic works primarily in the interests of himself and others and then in the national and citizens' interests. Unfortunately, Croatia is the hostage of one's private ambitions, vanity and narcissism, that we have a flawed democracy with clear elements of personal dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66769	We have a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66770	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office of Article 238, once again another MP from the party Live Wall degrades HDZ MPs because for their known reasons, they simply have nothing to talk about and began to seem to worry all of what is happening in HDZ because, in the face of what they have in their own parties, they would most likely replace HDZ and all the ministers and prime ministers when they see the situation in their own ranks. Because I don't see why we have to listen to some media inscriptions here in the morning that someone wrote as a finished truth and based on what and how HDZ should behave. Because if I read what I read about the Living Wall, about the two congregations, about the legal, illegal congregations, about the money that went into the car inside some campaign, who gave them 500 euros or something else, that would end up the wrong way. Please protect us from these and those attitudes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66771	Thank you. So, there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure because so far we have had this practice and as much debate as today's debates are based on newspaper texts do not say anything else to the Rules of Procedure but that a break exists and that 5 minutes can be discussed on the subject the speaker chooses. So no regrets your injuries to the Rules of Procedure. And since there are no injuries to my colleague Bulj's Rules of Procedure, I don't know why you think the Rules of Procedure were hurt because you picked up the bat right away in the 5th second of the speech of my colleague, I said there was no harm to the Rules of Procedure then I think your request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure makes no more sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66772	Can I just explain why?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66773	Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66774	A colleague, Boris, injured Article 238 only because he expressed his political stance and essentially did not quote Dubravka Šuica that Plenkovic is a European bureaucrat, that he will have this mandate and another mandate, and only then will he be President of the Council Therefore, his colleague, Boric, just didn't call on the quote of a colleague of your Dubravka Shuica, the man told the truth. [[Bulj fellow President: Bulj!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66775	Comrade Bulj, please, let's go colleagues, this is really getting inappropriate on all sides now, we have the rules we have, the debate on changing the Rules of Procedure goes on, and it's obvious that we're going to have to change some things. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66776	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you have violated Article 231, Article 236. I would really ask you for Articles 47 and 33 where you are warned that you are the chairman of absolutely all parliamentary representatives then you have no right to give a colleague, even though your party colleague from HDZ is entitled to replicate through the Infringement Institute of the Rules of Procedure without warning him for a minute to replicate absolutely everyone on the subject of a break that someone else has made and within 10 seconds to warn and try to obstruct the speech of another parliamentary representative who does so. So, Mr. Boric, it's not our problem, it's not our problem that you're fighting inside yourself because of your party president who has imposed an ideological theme that half of your club disagrees with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66777	All right, so you all use a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you speak for one minute because it says in the Rules of Procedure that you can speak on the basis of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I haven't given anyone a warning today as you've seen and we're waiting for changes to the Rules of Procedure, so I guess it'll be a little bit different and more correct between us. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure, all right. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66779	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66780	Well, there's a white guy's rules. When it's done with exposure, raise your hand and ask for a break. You can't ask for a break during the presentation of one of the speakers. So, first he asked for a break from his formal colleague Bull, then I'll give you a break. No problem, you just can't ask for a break during exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66781	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes. The topic is ping-pong Croatian institutions towards citizens who are at risk of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66782	Be my guest, Bey, now it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66783	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry you didn't see because I raised my hand before, but good doesn't matter. I'm looking on behalf of the HSS Assembly Representatives' Club to pay tribute to the late General Petar Stipetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66784	All right. Okay. We have a break until 11:00. We'll continue at 11.00. It's 10:00.45. After 11 o'clock, we'll continue our work. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66786	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Here's the information we just received that if it's true of HSS that Stipetic died, then here's condolences on behalf of all the representatives from the Most Club of his family. I called this break to show how institutions behave in the Republic of Croatia, how they play ping-pong in cases when it comes to the lives of small people, about the carelessness of those people who are left alone. I will now open a question here in the Assembly which was opened a few months ago by the President of the City Council of Sinja Mr. Joško Kontic, our former representative in the city council, and before the media wrote and the citizens protested. The citizens of Sinj will talk about the cultural good, here is the cultural good not only in Sinj, but I will talk about what happens to this building in Vrcan's well-being. This object that has been destroyed, which I now hold before me, has been declared a cultural good. Ministry of Construction, i.e. The competent inspection made it clear. The solution is that this facility threatens people's lives. This building is precisely along the only road that has access to the centre of Sinja residents of the region. Many children live here, this is at the top of the Alkar racetrack, all of you were in Sinj, where simply after that warning i.e. Seeking to address this problem from the mayoral authorities sent a letter to the conservative department in Split three and a half months ago, the department is not responding to this inquiry where people are threatened by protesting, seeking safety for themselves and their children. And the protective fence they made of wood ten years ago is now down. The key question is why are the institutions playing ping-pong mainly the culture minister to whom I will address today and the question and the conservation department, and of course I have an obligation as a parliamentary representative and on the spot to talk about this down where I will help people who will self-inflict their lives by cleaning up this facility that I keep all the time in front of me. So the Ministry of Culture The Conservatory Department has a legal option on the Law on the Protection of Cultural Goods and the Conservation of Cultural Goods where buildings that are dangerous to the lives of citizens can collapse. This facility is neither protected nor threatened by the lives of you can't see this picture. I'll post this photo later so they can see on the facebook page to see the minister, and I'll send them a memo. The conservatory department does not want to respond, which means they play ping pong with human lives, with the lives of small citizens who have a barrier with an object that has been declared culturally good, and is collapsing. And by one solution from the Ministry of Construction, i.e. building inspections that facility is life-threatening. Citizens no longer have the patience of Sinj and simply they will have to solve this problem on their own, so they announced yesterday, which means that the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, that they will have to bear responsibility if something happens to someone on this issue is informed and the police and the DORH are all informed of this problem where the only access road is blocked where the building is jeopardising lives by solving the Ministry of Construction. Culture Ministers, the Conservatory Department in Split is not doing its job, for four months is not responding to questions from local self-government. Please once again for the protection of people, little people, don't play with their lives, the lives of their children on pinig pong, but solve this problem if not one cultural good, let alone this ruined will not replace one life. Act on the solution of the Ministry of Construction, you have the legal authority and the possibility prescribed by the Law on the Conservation and Protection of Cultural Goods. And I will send this memo to all relevant institutions for the protection of the little man. And a lot of games from Croatian institutions ping pong against little man Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66787	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Beljak, now it's your turn on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66788	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. I will give up my speech, and on behalf of the pause we asked for on behalf of the HSS Club, and we asked for the honor of one of the greatest heroes of the Homeland War and I will ask the President of the Parliament, the Honorable Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, to take the floor and do what is done in such sad moments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u66789	Thank you, fellow Whitey. So here is a moment ago we received regrettable news of the death of Chief General Petar Stipetic, he is the former Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and one of the heroes of the Homeland War and on behalf of all MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament I would like to express my condolences, the compassion of General Stipeic's family on behalf of all of us. Now we're going to the agenda, so I suggest, or I already suggested, I now announce that we go to a united debate on the next two points. - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 306 and - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Companies Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 307 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure, on the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, adopted the proposal from the Proposer to hold these legislative proposals under emergency procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. I would now ask that on behalf of the promoter we hear further reasons, with us we have respected Majda Buric, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75726	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, therefore, related to these two draft laws, amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds with the final draft law, as well as to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension Insurance Companies with the final draft law, it should be said that this is a matter of harmonisation with the Recommendation 23 of the MONEYVAL Committee and the implementation of Directive 2014/50 of the EU. Therefore, for the purpose of implementing Recommendation 23 and the report on the fourth round of evaluation by the Council of Europe MONEYVAL on the implementation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, MONEYVAL provides for harmonisation in order to prevent participants of persons convicted of criminal offences from having a control or management function in financial institutions to which the proposed law applies. In this respect, it is possible for the HANFA to collect relevant data from the competent authorities in order to establish whether or not they are co-workers of persons convicted of criminal offences in the procedures of granting consent for the acquisition of qualified shares and the granting of consent to perform the function of a member of the pension society's management. Furthermore, these proposals also transpose the directive, as I have already stated, 2014/50 of the EU, on minimum requirements for improving the mobility of workers between Member States, improving acquisition and preserving the right to an additional pension for which the deadline is 21 May of this year. In relation to Recommendation 23 of the MONEYVAL Committee, the following is proposed, the definition of co-workers, so who is an associate of the acquirer of a qualifying share in a pension society and who is the applicant for the performance of the member of the pension society's management. All of this is prescribed in points (35) and (36) of Article 2. Furthermore, the real owner of the legal entity is defined as well as the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which is a more concrete point in Article 34(2). In addition, more detailed criteria shall be laid down on the basis of which the HANFA will assess the applicant for a member of the board of directors or when establishing a request for approval of a potential acquirer of a qualifying holding, or if the intended acquirer is to be granted an authorisation. In this respect, it is prescribed that the applicant for a member of the administration, or the intended acquirer of a qualifying share, shall not be a co-worker of a person legally convicted of specific offences, including criminal offences of money laundering and terrorist financing. It shall also be given the authority of the HANFA to collect data on the power of condemnation of the applicant for a member of the pension society's administration, as well as of an associate of the applicant's claimant from the Ministry of Justice or an adequate authority keeping such records at EU level, as well as the authorisation to obtain the necessary data from the competent national authorities. It should be pointed out that the competent authorities within the meaning of this provision that it may be the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, are more specifically the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering and other competent authorities that can dispose of such information, which is covered by Articles 5 and 7. In relation to the abovementioned directive, relating to the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to transpose the EU Directive 2014/50 into its legislation, this legislative proposal proposes to define workers on departure, then to define users of delayed pensions, introduce a definition of the right to retirement in a state of rest, and all of this is prescribed in points 17, 18 and 19. It should be pointed out that the applicable regulation states that a member of a closed pension fund may leave the fund membership and in the event that he does not meet the pension requirement only with the simultaneous entry into another closed pension fund. This legislative proposal provides for an exception which allows for the exit from a closed pension fund membership, but only for the leaveee, in accordance with the said Directive 2014/50 and which is prescribed by the Article. 8. In addition, it is also prescribed that at the request of leavers, the pension company should pay the collected and capitalised funds in its account even though it has not yet met the conditions for retirement under the applicable law. It's a one-time payoff, but in an exceptional case. Therefore, Directive 2014/15 of the European Union in Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to be amended accordingly. 4. undoubtedly imposes an obligation on Member States to take all necessary measures to compensate for the contributions paid by the worker on departure or paid to the worker on departure, as the amount of contributions paid or the value of the investments resulting from those contributions, and to that effect, Article 4. Ten. Finally, it should be mentioned that it is also necessary to arrange and inform members of the closed fund in the event of a member of the fund going to work in another country. Finally, it is proposed to adopt these two amendments and supplementation in an emergency procedure, so that at the 56th plenary session in early April of this year, the Manival Committee does not conclude that we have not made sufficient progress in relation to the recommendation, and that there is no decision to make regarding the reference of the Republic of Croatia to the steps in the process of strengthening compliance. For all of these reasons, for all reasons, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the law on pension insurance companies, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75727	Before we move on to replicas, I'd like to welcome the students and students of Dr. Ivan Kranjchev from Đurđevec. Hello. Give it up! Now we're going to the replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75728	Thank you very much, colleague Majda, for this opening presentation of yours. When we talk about additional control, especially money related to pension funds, it's good to give in these times and certain control over, but it's much more important to see where the perspective is, or how our fellow citizens are going to get pensions tomorrow and what kind of pensions they're going to be, and I just have to react here because a lot of our fellow citizens are calling and asking me and asking that the government is looking at these spins through the media saying that practically people at 67 are going to be, '33. In 2033, you have to work. Whether it will be the only reform that Plenkovic proposes, or whether it is a message to our fellow citizens practically in some occupations that he will be able to retire directly not from work but from the cemetery. Unfortunately, the working life is extended by two years and the period is shortened compared to what was planned. It is to the benefit of the European Commission and the EU, meaning they are pushing us, but we cannot just be there to carry out the tasks of the European Commission, we cannot be there to lift the benefits of the benefits of people who are hard and hard to do their jobs and on this side, other than spins through the media, we should hear a representative of the Government when we talk about these funds, whether it is connected and whether this reform really intends to be done to harm our older citizens because we simply should not allow it in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75729	Replication response. State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75730	Thank you. Dear and esteemed Mr Maras, therefore, it is above all necessary to clarify that regarding these laws, we are talking about a supplementary pension which in the Republic of Croatia has its equivalent precisely in the third pillar of pension insurance. So we're talking about voluntary pension funds. These are the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about 19 closed and about 30,000 people are involved. So they're volunteer pension funds. And you were talking here about the second column that's mandatory, so I'd just like to do and remind you of the distinction related to the equivalent of the supplementary pension. In the Republic of Croatia, it is a voluntary, or III pension column. About a working life up to 67 years, which you mentioned, it's nothing new. In 2014, the working age of the Law was already prescribed by 67, and as this Government announced, in the second quarter of this year we are moving into a comprehensive pension reform within which we are going to regulate and improve all three pillars of pension insurance, so both I and II and III and, of course, in cooperation with the social partners, the scientific community and with the interested public that I believe will be very much. It is also important to point out that there are extremely complex activities in which we have done comprehensive depth analyses last year, deep-screen systems, projections, as well as the effects of possible solutions, in order to ensure adequate social security for all pensioners, without discrimination, and with imperative and with the objective of sustainability, long-term sustainability of the pension system, as well as the adequateness of pensions. Of course, according to Croatian economic opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75731	Thank you. Second replica. Dear colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75732	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mrs Buric, actually at the end of your presentation you said one important thing, it is that you will conduct a kind of information to members of closed funds, when we are talking of course about the third pillar and voluntary funds. I think in general, and you mentioned the data of 30,000 users, there's too little information about benefits and actually, the third pillar itself. As for these, of course, in the light of these and these legislative changes, we absolutely support these certain changes regarding the very responsibilities and ways of possibility, even if they are called fund management members, but also the rights of those who have, now and who are paying into a voluntary pension fund, which are actually inalienable and which can also be further reasons, going out of this country, unfortunately use them further. However, I repeat, that of course we need comprehensive pension reform and I think that it should be implemented, enough, is not really enough information about the 3 retirement status, its benefits, because today, now those who are general, means generations that are younger are not thinking at all, perhaps as much as it will be in 20, 30 years or 15 years, followed by retirement. I hope that everyone will also experience it naturally that deep age, that they can use them, but I think that 3 pillar is one of the reasons that a lot of citizens can help themselves, because we know the methods of calculating pensions and, in addition to 27%, that they are not for a third of some pay or even less of what was received and that they are already living with these incomes today, and let alone when people are going to retire. Therefore, the announced, i.e. the projected extension measures, the conditions for retirement, some go hand in hand, of course, some do not, and there is a need to seek the same regular eclaribus between employees who have more than 40 years of employment some... intense business, that they can't really be expected to work, like someone said to death. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75733	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75734	Thank you, Mr. Curaj, so we agree with you, that it is necessary to raise awareness and knowledge and about the third voluntary retirement stake. So when we talk about the third pillar, we talk about both closed and open funds. In this particular case, these two laws are exclusively about closed ones, which I have already cited that have about 30,000 members, but the open ones have about 300,000 members, and the total assets of the third pillar are 4.7 billion kuna. I agree with you that there is a need to implement and raise financial literacy, on which the REGOS is also working, therefore, the central register of insurance, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance, we see that there are frequent implementation of the stands, round tables on which it will continue, and we think that this is extremely important, therefore, raising financial literacy and concern and awareness regarding contributions, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75735	Let's go to the third line, dear colleague Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75736	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Secretary of State, therefore, this topic is extremely extensive and it is quite important for this society, it is true that this is about changes that need to be supported, there is no speech, but let me expand this debate a little bit, that I will touch on behalf of the club some more things. What I'm interested in right now is the ministry's relationship to individual announcements, whether they're from the policy circle or the media on the removal of the second pillar. This is automatically reflected in the actual number of users using a 3-voluntary pension column, whether it is closed or open funds. And what I'd like to suggest to you right now, in the debate, I'm going to point out once again, there is, namely, a union initiative, why the state as an employer. Thank you, Mr. President. It's just me we're about to say, but it's you. ... [[Intruder President: Just please, colleagues, speak out loud, not even whispering, but speaking out loud to you a few, it's not fair, I mean, here you go, colleague Sagar.]] Well, I'm glad now. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, the state as an employer, and given the announcement of reform and state administration, public administrations, could provide a reward system, thus investing precisely in the third pillar in a voluntary pillar as an incentive to those employees who are good. This would also increase the assets of pension funds, and on the other hand would allow those who are more successful to receive a bigger reward. Here, for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75737	My colleague's answer to the secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75738	Thank you. Many times in the assembly, I said the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the second pillar, which is that we are going to develop a second pillar that currently holds 91.9 billion kuna of property. So what you've announced, it's not this government's position, it's the attitude of developing a second pension pillar. Of course, it should also be emphasized that the second pension pillar, i.e. the individual capitalised savings, will show its real results, only when it becomes a mature system, after 2002 when it was introduced, so far, we cannot say that the best results, optimal results, the second pillar will show in the maturity phase, and that is about 20 years of its existence and more than 20 years of age. In addition, you asked about voluntary, voluntary investments, that is, the third pillar. So, you mentioned incentives or something like that, the benefits for the members and benefits of closed funds are the payment of the employers' contributions or, the sponsor of the fund on behalf of the fund members and the right to 15% of the state incentives up to a maximum of 750 kn, at the total beach amount. Here's what we should mention, so there's an incentive, so we should keep that in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75739	Thank you. Now we move on to committee discussions. My colleague Maras, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75740	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. At its 29th session, held today on 14 March, the Committee on the Work of the Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Pension Insurance Companies, P.Z.E. 306 and 307 and the Committee discussed those acts in accordance with Article 83. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a home working body and after the preliminary and comprehensive and very interesting presentation of the representative of the applicant who pointed out that the proposed law is a harmonisation with the acquis of the EU, i.e. with certain provisions of the Committee of the Council of Europe MONEYVAL in relation to the implementation of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing is unanimous with 10 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the conclusion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance Companies is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75741	We are continuing to work now, the next club that is next is the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists and fellow Zhagar. Here you go. He's not here. He's losing his right to debate. Then we'll go to the HDZ Representatives' Club. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Karlic is not here, so he loses his word. So now we're going to a colleague's temple on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75742	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected secretary of state with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. We have two laws before us on which amendments and amendments to the final proposal should be discussed today. The task is not too difficult for us because it is technical amendments to these laws that are otherwise, these laws are otherwise terribly complicated and for lawyers, they have a lot, a lot of articles 350 articles of the law. And in this, they have been adopted in 2014 and I guess I am one of the few MPs who had 12 amendments to these, to one of these, or to those laws. The activities of voluntary pension societies and pension insurance companies have not essentially changed anything. The laws are in line with EU directives and it should be said that they are in fact 85% of the same text only as the content of the Voluntary Pension Fund Act whether it is closed or open funds define savings, so investment, investment, capitalisation plus state support, support from the Republic of Croatia at 15% to the amount of 5 thousand kuna paid. And here the situation is pretty clean, this law doesn't need to be mixed with the Mandatory Pension Funds Act, there's around here, in that law there's about 4 billion kuna capital, in those mandatory pension funds as the secretary of state said about 92 billion capitalised savings, so it's not so paid up, here's the value of now saving. So it's good that this law, that these laws, when we talk about both of them in a way, have reorganized the term to more clearly define the concepts that are not in everyday use so let's say if the ordinary user of voluntary pension funds dares to enter matter so that they can understand them. There are very precise obstacles to how one can be a member of the administration. I think that's how it should be arranged and the State Officials Act so that exactly cases of conflict of interest can be known, so we'd be much more clear than we'd be given to subjective assessments of certain institutions. I appreciate, therefore, that this is despite our obligation to resolve this and report to the European Commission by April, this good move, I think it is only now that it has come but these changes are very, very valuable. Of course, there's a way to talk about this whole system here, what are we actually discussing? We are precisely discussing the third pension pillar in one law, it's a law on voluntary pension societies, pension funds, and societies are only, societies that manage these funds. And we're talking about the Retirement Insurance Act, they're only making payments. Therefore, anything saved in the first pension column, i.e. in the Mandatory Pension Funds Act and in the second pillar, i.e. in the third paragraph of the Voluntary Pension Funds Act, is paid through a pension insurance company, so far there is only one pension insurance company. And therefore I have no objections to the law, I have observations about this pension insurance company on the actuarial tables they use that are unadjusted to Croatian standards or to the tables of experience, yet it is ours, our years of experience are about 5 years shorter than the EU tables, or it certainly affects the height, it certainly affects the height of payment. So work, we're talking about that system. And it's logical that as the secretary of state mentioned, the right to a one-time payment has been obtained. This is about money that a man personally spends on his savings or is paid by an employer but under the treatment of gross wages. So, under that gross salary, even if it has a one-time payment to pay the pension, it's defined as a gross salary. Therefore, what is inside is a clean savings, so there is the possibility that 30% of what is saved in open, closed pension funds is used in the 50s and that various programmes are agreed to pay off those pensions whether indefinitely, or for life, whether for ten years but not less than five years. It is through these two laws to edit that third pension column, hence voluntary pension savings and payments, while also paying out of the first pension column. It is a shame that Croatian citizens very little use this state's privilege or support of a country of 15% to 5,000 kuna savings. So, at the highest level of 5,000 per year, state savings is paid to 750 kuna. It's that 15%. And it may not work very much, but the long-term savings never begin with large amounts, and this product that has this legal framework is very flexible and is in line with a directive that we recently discussed in the Croatian Parliament on a pension cross-border European pension product if I am not mistaken, it has a name. So why am I speaking positively about this product? Because if you know life insurance it's also possible to save through life insurance, at the same time you're insured from an accident. You can then arrange to pay your pension rent on a shorter deadline or on a lifetime basis, etc. But what is the difference between this second pillar and that life insurance? There's a freedom of investment here. This is where you pay when you can and how much you can. The only problem in the second pension column is so-called a very high entry fee that amounts to about 1250 kuna. It is, the entrance is very difficult and very expensive and maybe it is and should be thought about it, maybe it is one of the barriers for people to save more because practically this entry fee ate at least one or two years of savings. Some initial effects she simply ate. But I believe, people say it's hard to save when it's low wages, when we have high unemployment. I agree with all of this, but also if the state encourages and pays this to your account 15% then it should be done especially because it's not a mandatory contract that I have to quarterly or monthly payment I don't know 50 or 100 euros. Then one should sort of organize and try to save because the state will give some social minimum through pensions. The peace with this relationship of workers and pensioners will never be too big again, it will never be at 85%, because it takes 5 workers on one pensioner and these trends are very difficult at the moment. I'm not saying they're impossible, but they're very hard to imagine. Therefore, I think that the state should continue to encourage this savings in voluntary retirement societies because it is very, very flexible and acceptable to long-term paths, and yet something in 30 years is expensive. And then you have the first pillar of generation solidarity that I hope we will improve and give an add-on of 27% and for those only for years of working in the first pension column on the principle of equal contributions to equal rights. And that the first plus the second plus the third will give some kind of bearable retirement in the future. But since one part of us is becoming our own personal property, so this is definitely our personal property, although it's in the hands of someone else who manages, and that's why laws like this should be passed because it's very, very responsible work. Because that job depends on someone's existence in the future. What I would like to say more taught experiences because they are being obtained, so the users of either the second pension column or the third receive their reports and are calculating capitalisation, i.e. in units and the value of the four decimals. I ask you, especially because the secretary of state is here that in future when indexing is calculated, therefore harmonising pensions twice a year to and doing so on four decimals. Because, you know, according to our calculations, the alignment was supposed to be 96. According to the Croatian Pensions Institute, 0.94 was dropped. 0.2 is not much, but n0.2 means 6 million kunas per year to less pensioners. Why would there be less? In 10 years it's 50 kuna less. Five and a half kuna less per year. Why? So let's have the same treatment or let's all go to two, three or four decimals, but we're asking the DZS for one decimal, and that's a system of large numbers, the damage seems to be small, but multiply it by months and years, so you'll see that it's not that small. It's not even a little bit for a finance minister who provides funds to pay off pensions, so we understand each other. To them on the other hand, it's probably easier if the alignment is small, but why would they deprive citizens of their rights, if there's a very precise formula, and there could be a mistake solely because of how many decimals we've taken into account. This is just one appeal here, no doubt, the GLAS and HSU club will support these two amendments and the addition of the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Pension Insurance Companies, with the Final Bill proposal and God forbid we have even more productive pension savings to do as many campaigns as possible and to raise awareness of citizens as possible, especially because we have such a flexible product, so that as much as possible they get involved in this pension savings and indeed no one in Europe has this 15% state support for this pension savings. I think we should appreciate that, although we appreciate our things that are relatively well appreciated. I'm asking you for a little twist to appreciate what's good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75743	Let's go to the replicas. The first one's next, dear colleague Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75744	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Hrelja. Here's just to relate to your exposure, we can absolutely agree more or less on everything and not just on this law, but on the vast majority of what you said. Yes, you mentioned the incentive of the state of 750 kuna to a maximum of 5000 a year and what I would only suggest that even employers who, if we look at the deposit maybe in a closed fund, have the right to recognise the cost of tax-recognition to the amount of 6000 kuna per year or equivalent of 500 kuna per month payment for their worker in the third pillar. I think the importance of the third pillar needs this awareness of both the existence and its benefits, as I said earlier absolutely as much as possible inform our citizens because it will be extremely and crucial in 15, 20 years and that we start to really think about the future now, not when the time comes. We had a discussion here the other day about an allowance for those who are going to retire from both pillars with an unfettered job, so now we have to think about what's going to happen in 15, 20 years. What's also important about the third pillar is with a full 50-year life you have the right to determine what you want, you can have 30% of the capitalised assets immediately withdraw, continue to pay or already start the malt not using that pension, depending on whether 50,000 kuna and more or above or going over a pension insurance company. So we agree that, past this bill too, these laws that are determined on the third pillar are important and I think that never enough information on this road, which is why I'm saying that to get to our citizens, to start with 100 kunas, 200, 500 and what you've said is extremely crucial, you don't have to pay every month than you pay so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75745	My colleague Hrelja's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75746	Thank you, colleague Curaj, for further clarification. Of course there is a tax recognition to the employer's cost and that's good, it's always good that the tax system and the savings system are connected. So there are several ways to stimulate such savings in some way, and employers know that they should not care about what happens to their workers when they retire, as it should not be for unions to not take a more active role when it comes to pension reform, announced pension reform because pensioners who are retired will not do anything, but their members who regularly pay the membership union can be more or less entitled. I therefore call on them to play an active role in the announced pension reform. And this is, in any case, a good relief that you mentioned to the employers to help save their employees, too. Of course, this is ultimately calculated especially as the cleanest story is that if I save, save in the net then I have no problems then I can and use it in more favourable ways, especially with an employer who would like to make a single payment to someone, it must be treated as a gross salary or income. However, some companies also have such opportunities, and there are no obstacles to respecting positive legal regulations and tax regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75747	Another replica of the esteemed colleague, Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75748	Dear colleague. I'm glad you mentioned this is important for other models of payment of the pension fund, not only that state-owned second-degree but that there are other ways, of course if it ensures the state to a certain level of payment per year for people who pay into other pension funds. But at the same time, I'm afraid, for a reason, when you're looking at statistics if the state is in a deficit that takes up every year to cover that deficit from the IMF, etc. You have financial engineering, how can this country for the next ten years what will it look like in a country where maybe 1.1 people work, and the other one is retired? We know that European countries... the old population ratio is 4:1, let's say outside where I lived in that country 30 years Canada you have 65 years you can take an age pension, and you can wait she's bigger if you go at 70 years, you have the one for a job internship, the longer you do it the more you get a job job, and there's a full-time internship at 35. You can work up to 80 if you want, if your health holds up. You have an example. I took this example of showing our co-worker here from the Ministry of Labour for these funds you have every quarterly report of what people get and how their money is invested. There are covered costs for, dentally, which is important and you have, for example, 78 bucks is paid, say, it's a private health fund. What do you need age for if you're in bed? And I wonder this, these are two questions, what about pensioners' money before the '90s and how much we pay today's pension in Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75749	A reply to the replica of my colleague Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75750	Thank you very much. Mr. Glasnović, the state has provided a lot of insurance and the first, excuse me, and the second and third pension pillar, because it is not held in some accounts, if the bank's bankruptcy or the bank's collapse would have failed. So, in some ways, it may be even better solved than the American pension funds that really are ruined and have really made a big, big problem for their citizens. This is about a European tradition where the funds in compulsory pension funds are in accounts where neither the performance nor the ability to make a bankruptcy mass can be done. So these are pretty protected categories. We just have to watch how these money is invested that it's not a bad investment. But no one here was born a prophet to invest sinlessly. There are always possible mistakes and there is always a human factor and ours is to reduce it to the least possible measure by legal frameworks. As for this second reading, I ask you to address the Ministry. Before the 1990s, there was no pension fund as such, but what was collected from the contributions was transferred for pensions, since there were more contributions there were leftovers that were given neatly by the 1990s to build homes of pensioners, homes of health, etc. So there you are, there's money, there's no fund in the sense of another pension fund that it's money and savings like that. And in Serbia only those pensions are paid where when a man there is entitled to a pension and has an internship in the Republic of Croatia for 5, 10 or 15 years on the grounds that he became a pensioner there to demand that he be accounted for for for for 10 years and on that basis gets a pension.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75751	Thank you. Let's go to 3rd, colleague Branko Grcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75752	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Hrelja, you've said well this is a good product, unfortunately used by all 30,000 of our pensioners, pardon citizens for some future pensions. The problem is probably both economic and social, so either people can't pay for something like that that needs to be respected or maybe there's a little better people to be informed about. But what I wanted specifically to underline here and you also mentioned it, so these 30,000 of our citizens is only somewhere compared to the number of pensioners we have today, which is somewhere around a million and 230 thousand, only 2.5% of potential pensioners, 2.5%. We have to ask ourselves what to do with these pensions, what to do with these pensions from work. Somewhere around 850,000 of our pensioners, 850 grand has a pension under 3,000 kuna. existential minimum, so that poverty threshold is somewhere around 2200 kuna, so these people are very close to the existential minimum when it comes to pension levels. And there's got to be something to do. The biggest problem is the fact that these pensions with their share of average salary, in average income, are falling all the time. Last year it was 39%, this year it ended at 38%. So below 40% is the pension level, average pensions relative to the average salary level. And that is a key problem for Croatia. So we have to stop the drop in the share of pensions in wages and then actually do everything we can to make that pension grow slowly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75753	Thank you, fellow Greek. Answer, here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75754	Thank you, fellow Greek, for agreeing on these two laws. And as for retirement issues, I have to say one thing, not to defend the former minister, but the fact that we have a form of coordination that is solid, which is modified, which is 70:30, is not a Swiss formula 50:50 that was before. And I'm probably going to cause the retirement of a pension union that's constantly claiming that the formula is a bad alignment, I'm saying it's something else that's wrong, and that's that we're, say, relatively bigger, old pensions replacing smaller new pensions, and that's constantly coming down to the average pension on average. How do you solve that? Of course, reform procedures are needed and of course you and I would like it to stabilize somewhere above 40 and that the average pension on average is growing. But then we have to decide to stop penalizing at a certain age because forgiveness pension is insurance for age and illness. Then why do we have to penalize people for life, then we can settle it another way of calculating family pensions because it's not fair that a widow who's never worked gets 70% and let's say someone who's been with her husband for 70, 80 years of internships can choose between 70% of his who's gonna be smaller or just stay on his own. That total internship has its own, its own level. And these are the paths that could solve raising the average pension in average salary, you don't need to attack formulas because it's not the basic cause, it's better than the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75755	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75756	Thank you very much. My colleague Hrelja, so here's the secretary of state today, boasted that HDZ had raised pensions by 2, 3, 4% but by 0.94% all the time, and you and I claimed that this is what the formula is. So what we need is to grow as much pay as we can, and then they'll grow clearly and align with pensions. What I would like to point out is that the formula is good, the formula goes with three times harmonising pensions, so 2x regularly and then at the end of the year once again to favor this better, better parameter. Of course, looking at the parameter sometimes is better that the pay parameter, sometimes better costs of living, but I think this is balanced. And here's the answer to Mr. Glasnović, so since I'm going to send him to look at the website, I looked at HZMO's website in a minute, Croatia pays 150 thousand pensions abroad, of which in Serbia 52,000 259, of which is 37,000 404 aged, so these are the people who worked in Croatia and earned their pension. And Serbia is therefore paying about 6,000 of our pensioners. So much for Mr. Glasnovic, if he can't hear, at least they know the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75757	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75758	Thank you very much. My colleague Mrsic, you may not have wanted to, but you made me compliment the secretary of state because the last time we had a debate I strongly protested that it was someone's contribution to harmonisation because it was a legal obligation. And I have to admit that the secretary of state is a quick learner and doesn't repeat the mistakes she made last time. And I think it's perfectly correct to compliment. As far as I'm concerned, I have nothing to add, so we're defending the same position, and I hope you accept what I said so that we can fight poverty in the pension system. And there is another detail that from your time there is Mr. Mrsic, in order to fight poverty fairly, to know what 180 thousand pensions are needed to come to Croatia to pair up with all of this, so we will know the whole social picture from the pension aspect. Until we do, then we can make a terrible mistake in giving someone who has and not giving someone who doesn't. You know, those 180 grand in, our society brings in an average of 300 euros a month. So that's a lot of money. And when I analyzed those first two categories up to 500 and up to 1000 kuna in total of 180 thousand 60 thousand of these pensioners have foreign incomes. Although someone from Macedonia or Serbia or Montenegro, in BiH, is relatively small but someone has 600, 700 euros from Germany or another European state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75759	Thank you. The last replica to be given to colleagues, Silvana Hrelje, is a replica by his colleague Željko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75760	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here, a colleague of the Hrelja in your debate you mentioned a reduction of about 6.5 million kuna in that fund. So can there be any more cuts in people who have done heavy work for 40 years, who have pensions so small that they can't live on them? On the other hand, we have pensions where people have pensions of more than 10 thousand kunas and do not have working days. So I doubt that anyone believes in this system and the second pillar and the third pillar because simply people comment on it outside, on the road, in cafes or where you sit with ordinary people that they simply don't believe that they'll last so long until they get that chance to calculate their pension. So is a pension of two thousand kunas for someone who has made 40 years worth of retirement and can you live on it? I think that not and I think that this government should think about opening new jobs but really opening up, giving investors an opportunity, reducing the tax press to investors in order to create as many jobs as possible and making it easier for this fund to be filled. Unfortunately, we're helping and stimulating people to leave the Republic of Croatia so here I am skeptical who is going to charge that fund tomorrow and whether that pension is actually going to be paid at the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75761	Answer, here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75762	Well, look, my dear colleague, we can be skeptical of everything but it is our duty to defend the functioning of the institutions, to question. So I was asking today if it's possible that we have to calculate the alignment of one decimal or four decimals if one decimal brings a minus from four decimals and that's to the harm of the pensioners. But you gave me one good chance to answer something and that's next. Look, we can open hundreds of thousands of jobs if they're minimum wage, we'll have the lowest pension. We'll have a pension of 63 kuna per year. So count how many years of internships, so many pensions. So we should be interested in jobs with greater added value, science, technology, so what Mate Rimac is doing and we need hundreds of thousands and not only in this activity but also in others, then the total pensions from work could be even bigger. I have to, given that I'm constantly analyzing this system, I have to tell you that since 1998, there are about 750 thousand new pensioners who have retired, you know, dying here, that's the life of the pension system, life and death at the end, out of those 750 thousand, 240 thousand have the lowest pension, and that's the price of all our labor market divisions, income tax, low wages, wages below the table, etc. There's a picture of the post-festum, which we've been doing before. Therefore, I appeal to seriousness and caution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75763	Thank you. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, let us welcome the students of the Clay High School who are now on the porch with us and their teachers and teachers, professors and professors. Give it up! We are continuing on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague Makar, and probably colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75764	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here, today we are discussing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds as well as the Law on Pension Insurance Companies. In fact, there is harmonisation of legislation with, our laws with EU legislation, but let me look back on pensions here in the Republic of Croatia and how they are paid. Pensions are paid out, paid out by a pension insurance company. However, they are achieved through 3 pillars. We have an I column, it's a generational solidarity fund where all insurance companies are, and we all take pensions from that pillar, or they pay off. That's mandatory. We also have a second pension column, which is also mandatory and is often spoken of in this Croatian Assembly. For now, there are few pensioners from this pillar, but it will grow in the coming years. And we have the third column. This is about voluntary retirement insurance, and this is exactly where the supplementary pension is made. About the importance of the supplementary pension we heard today and we are all aware because that is actually what will make our safety at age. In the Republic of Croatia, we have registered 27 voluntary pension funds, of which 19 closed pension funds. There are Croatian insurance, Dalekovod, then we have Croatian medical union, roadmen and others. While open pension funds can be paid by all citizens whether they are employed or not, membership in closed funds is limited to staff members of fund sponsors, and the sponsor of a voluntary pension fund may be an employer, union or association. The sponsor takes over the payment of contributions for employees, however, the proportion of the amount he pays, can pay the full amount, can participate in it, and the member himself further, but it is important that all this is a gross salary and that this is a certain way of stimulating, but it is paid contributions. However, the employer who pays has the right to tax relief through the application of income tax or income tax up to 6 thousand kuna per year to reduce his tax base. We still have too few citizens to pay into voluntary pension funds. These funds are an important source of income in our environment. Many supplementary pensions are received by Europeans precisely from this third voluntary pension rate, i.e. that supplementary pension. We are also aware of the reasons why the situation is with us. Normally, a bad economic situation, small wages are paid, but information itself may not be enough to stimulate us. So it's a good thing we've talked about it here and the way we make the payments and the allocations themselves because this is really voluntary and stimulating because we can single out 100 kunas for one month, so next month nothing, so the third month 200, or maybe when we get an additional source of income, maybe we pay another amount, and that's what stimulates us. It's being stimulated in a way that the state gives us an extra 15% support or a total of up to 750 kuna a year. As has already been said, it may not be a significant amount. However, when it is paid for years and it is capitalized, we still come up with an important amount from which our supplementary pension is paid. As early as 4 years ago, a directive of the European Parliament on minimum requirements for improving the mobility of workers between Member States was adopted, which is precisely by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights, and the deadline is, we have already heard of compliance with this Directive on 21 May 2018, so here we have an emergency procedure in this section. What is to be achieved is that workers cannot lose their pension rights when moving within the EU because of certain rules of supplementary pension insurance in a Member State, so it is regulated that if a pension system is left to move to another Member State, rights must be maintained to the same extent as for all persons remaining in a Member State. It may also be good to mention that pension rights are acquired after 3 years of payment, but that any one who pays into a voluntary pension fund, that these are his funds and that the funds can be withdrawn, or can be paid to him in the part in which he paid. What is more important in this section is that the law allows for the improvement of the rights of mobile workers, but also the greater role of HANFA in overseeing laws that regulate the work of voluntary pension funds, as well as the work of pension insurance companies. Thus, measures related to the prevention of money laundering are regulated, and this means that HANFA will make sure that members of the management in financial institutions do not become persons who are co-workers of persons convicted of criminal offences. There is now a little bit of everything expanded and defined so that we at the club think that this is a good harmonisation and that it will bring certain improvements and qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75765	I'm a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75766	Thank you, Vice President. Here I'm just gonna keep going for a little while and get on with it. So as far as the amendments in question are concerned, I think I would explain everything very well, I would just point out what is most important about the changes in Article 9 or the amendment of Article 119 where this mobility of closed funds users in the event of departure and change and jobs and leaving the country itself is possible. What is extremely important and what we have heard here today in replicas is this third pension column and its importance that a total of 30,000 closed and another 300,000 open voluntary pension pillars that we have today, voluntary pension savings or third pillars, with something that is waiting for us in the future as a major problem. We see that the extraordinary question is already for them, so since there has been more or less... The RH issue of the sustainability of the pension system, that our ratio is negative, in practice to increase the number of pensioners more and more and more and less, and we have fewer employees. Of course, when we take negative demographic trends, then we know that we really don't write well. What I would like to remind here before the very importance of the third pillar is one statistical indicator, say, when we take it in 2001 then the average salary in Croatia was 3541 kuna while the average pension was around 1500 kuna. Then if we take one index like this, which first appeared in 1986 and I think it's quite tantamount to our citizens' own... index or the Big Mac index we can remember... that then in 2001 the price of a hamburger was three kunas. We return to 2017 with 3500 kuna average salary now we are at over 6, in November was 6190 so it is some increase of 75% of that pension average that I said was 1500 now on 2453. Here when we talk about the indexation of life and purchasing costs we see that these pensions have increased 63%, and that burger I think you know very well that today is seven kunas, 3-7 130% therefore even wages didn't follow the cost of life that you could buy for your salary for your earned kuna, and how much you can do it today, especially when we talk about pensions. What do we do? When we talk of, of course, one of the resolutions that by this year 2018, women go into full retirement for 62 years of life and a minimum of 15 years of internship, by 2030 it will be 65 years and 2038. 67 years, according to the secretary of state, it's already been prescribed. And I think that's the solution to certain problems is we're all aware that especially if we're talking about women who work in some manual or productive or service activities that start working at 19, 19 and unfortunately always have to pay around the minimum wage that according to their minimum law now, where 62 and 61 kuna are going, and 94 lipes per year are accounted for by a minimum guaranteed pension, so it can turn out in 40 years about 2400 kuna that it's not so much less than that salary they get as a minimum. And we have to make it clear to the public that it does not apply to them that they will have to work until 67th, but the question is certainly there are other activities in which it would even be welcomed because some who have maybe average salary will not have 6 so they will have no pension of 4.5 will have a pension of about 3 or 3.5, and there we come to this disproportionateity. So that's where we need to be in the future when we talk about some comprehensive pension reform, and then of course it comes into question this third pension column that you're assuming voluntarily as much as you can, as much as you want. The state gives you an annual level of up to 5000 kuna 15%, so if you have paid 5000 kuna, that's 750 kuna. When we talk about the closed or those where the employer can pay for the worker in such a way as to ensure the competitiveness of his company, or from the work itself, is a tax-recognized cost, so up to 6000 kuna per year and 500 kuna, respectively, in the third pillar of his worker. What is then paid is such simplest said own money and can be decided from 50 years ago will be further paid, used, paid 30% and, of course, later on depending on whether under 50,000 total capitalised or above used and the possibility of payment for life in a certain period of 5 to 15 years or whatever or withdraw one part again when going into retirement. So that's what's important, that's where we have to draw attention to that there are opportunities and possibilities. And the easiest thing to do is to save those who have, I think it's very clear that when people get 3,000 kunas, they don't have to pay the basic cost of life, not to save anything. And we're not going to get any better pension system as long as our economy as a whole gets better as long as we have bigger salaries, more funds to pay first of all into the first basic pillar of the 15% intergenerational solidarity because today we still have a shortage and the state is still making up for this budget deficit and our pensions are being paid out of the budget. So, once again, the CNS final club will, of course, support these amendments to the law, but as so far, we always stress the necessity of one serious pension reform and the insurance of a better life for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75767	Thank you. At the presentation of a colleague at least we have one replica, colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75768	Thank you very much. Dear MPs Makar, after you have succeeded in realizing that the entire pension system is wrong, that the first and second pillars of the second pillar represent one robbery directed by citizens, you have now come to the solution to tell citizens to invest money in the third pillar. In order to get those state incentives, citizens should pay 5,000 kuna annually, I don't know if you realize that citizens simply don't have that money. They already pay 20% for pensions, now they should give a certain percentage to the third pillar, which is next what will this government propose? Shall we introduce the fourth and fifth pillars? Are we going to pay 50 percent of our salary to get our pensions back miserable? How do you comment as a member of the parliamentary majority that this year the government is coordinating pensions per year for 59 lips? Can 59 lips per year really improve anyone's standard in this case, pensioners? How do you comment on the fact that since 1999 the government has cut off pensioners 13.5% compared to price increases? So that your compliance and raises don't even cover price hikes, let alone to get close to the declared obligation to pay 50% of your pensions. The peace now amounts to 38% of the average wage with a reduction trend. So basically here it's just a story about how nothing can be done, and it's proposed to further impoverish workers, and basically no concrete solutions are offered, and that's a very bad result of your government's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75769	Thank you. Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75770	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear counterpart Bunjac, today we are not talking about any new law, we are talking about something that is harmonising certain laws as an improvement for worker mobility. And what you're saying, it was brought more than 15 years ago, and the first, second, third pension column is made in which you pay 2 compulsory or we have this third, voluntary. We all agreed, and we'll all agree that pensions are small and that we should strive to be bigger. There have been talks about increasing wages and what it should be like to all set out more in those pension insurances. It is these stimulations of our employers through these tax reliefs that stimulate them to pay their workers a higher salary, and thus, when contributions to these salaries are paid, these workers will have an even higher pension from both the first pillar and the third pillar. And the fact that we all need to work to make the laws better, to make bigger pensions possible, that's where I absolutely agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75771	Thank you. At the presentation of Stjepan Curaj, two replicas from which Grčić and Mrsic, he is the first fellow Greek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you mentioned this problem, as I mentioned earlier, the pension and salary ratio, the average pension in Croatia. After that or before that we heard a colleague of the Temple who says the formula is good, okay, I have nothing against the formula, the formula is ok relative to harmonising pensions, however it is not enough. So, we are witnessing that it is not enough and there is no social justice in Croatia as pensions fall below 40% of the average salary and as that fall continues, so it is not stopped. Therefore, you are part of that ruling majority and you have to think about it, which is in the government domain, how to stop the decline of the average pension share in average salary. I have some ideas, you consider them within the Government with professional services etc., etc., but additional criteria should be introduced. We know that pension is financed from contributions but somewhere from 37 billion, over 16 billion is financed from taxes. So, from the budget. And if the budget is growing, if budget revenues are growing because we have turned that trend towards economic growth, then this growth in budget revenues should be brought in some way with the growth in pensioners' isolation and at this point, according to one of my calculations, is not the case. So, according to previous year's data and projections for this year, it turns out that somewhere around 300 million kunas should still be allocated to the pensioners and that their relative position in the budget would remain at the level at which it was last year. That's the way, so additional criteria, extra detachments to save what can be saved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75773	Thank you. Answer, here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75774	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Greek fellow, yes, although when you mentioned that the average pension is below 40% of the average salary, even that is too little for me because right now it's 39.6 and if it were 40%, that 0.4 wouldn't mean much to us. So we have to look really or is an extremely average salary high or gives that ratio maybe closer to 50% than 40. As far as these are concerned, I think it's a matter of a broader economic nature, as far as the influence before the HNS is concerned, so we're going to have the same effect as we have in our joint government. As we've been hanging out there together, we'll still have the same amount of influence as ever. I don't believe that we and our position are going to change a lot. We don't have a ministry in our jurisdiction, but we can always propose, we can participate in creation, as we did together, and you can estimate how good we were then, how much we can do now, as much as we could. As for the wider macro-economic sept of pensions and salaries themselves, I'm afraid that we are falling and, despite the growth of certain and average pensions, the average salary, our purchasing power is getting smaller. And there's actually, so let's say the drop in purchasing power, just the increase in average wages, the increase in wages doesn't sit and the possibility of purchasing power. That's what I was saying about the McDonald's index, that whether or not those pensions were at 40 or 45% of the question is what people will be able to do with them. That's why, of course, this law, I think we're all going to agree, it's not at all controversial, and that's why it's important from that third pillar, that the more people we inform, that I can't expect from the current severances and current salaries, that in 20 years, I don't know how many pensions, whether from the second pillar, or whether both pillars and the foundation of intergenerational solidarity, but that people have to think ahead, and I think that by making it possible for them to partially inherit the second pillar, and fully dispose of the third pillar, people should give and that people should be able to plan their future as easy and most conveniently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75775	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75776	Col. Curaj, you mentioned textile workers, who will go to early retirement in 2019 and beyond, in 2020 will retire, so those who can go to early retirement and men are, which will create what we are already saying, great imbalances in their pensions compared to, therefore, men and women who went to retirement in 2016 because of the clear addition to retirement. And we can't run away from that, and that's what's going to lead to the fact that pensions from the first and second pension pillars are less than they should be if we don't include pension supplements from the first pension column of 27%. You are part of the majority, but obviously you have no influence on the government, to solve this problem, because the government obviously has no hearing for those 20, 30, 50, 100, 1000, 2000 so with January 1st, they will solve the problem. Because it's obviously not 10, 20, 30, 50, 100, because apparently the government doesn't think they're voters who will give them a vote, so obviously they don't want to be taken care of. We have not yet seen a solution in which this injustice will be corrected and how the reform will continue. What we see is that, instead of correcting these injustices, the government is dealing with, I'm just financial stability of the pension system without doing anything to ensure that pensions are adequate and that pensions are those that allow people to live in retirement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75777	Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75778	I thank the Vice President, dear colleague Mrsic, that we have had a recent debate and we have already been late with your bill, not now, but two, three and five years ago, and we have been late for those 17, respectively, these 37 people who went to the benefit of the benefits of a work experience in that pension, and in '62. They had to be in the first and second pillars. So, we could have predicted this before 4 or 5 years ago, we've been late 37 people, and I believe we're not going to be late for anything much more and appeal and of course we're going to appeal further, to solve the systemic issue, because we can't just look at 37 people this year or 2019, maybe a few hundred. In 2022, when it starts in full size or 2027 when it's just that, we have to watch what we're going to do in 2027 when it's 100,000 people. So, this proposal, this law must cover all of them, must be equal to all of them, in order not to fall of course in the Constitutional Court and what is my intensity, must have one possibility of applying and we know that in this law they must be retroactive, but to recognise all the same rights that have gone before, as well as those who will do so later. There we all agree, that this 27% supplement, which is now only for those who are receiving a pension from the first pillar, is a huge disproportionate, because these years since 2002 could not be capitalized enough in the second pillar and therefore, it is absolutely not, especially when we know that the second pillar of up to 15% is foreseen and it has not happened, that we must then find that solution, I'm just saying, we're already late yesterday and today, but then let's solve it systematically for 100,000 of our citizens to be in the same legal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75779	Thank you. We continue with discussions on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Miranda Mrsic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished State Secretary, distinguished Assistant Minister, we have before us today the Law on Pension Insurance Companies and the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds. This is one technical alignment with EU directives, for the purpose of preventing money laundering and, on the other hand, to clarify the concepts relating to workers, which save in voluntary pension funds. Those who have saved and gone out of the country, so that their rights are further guaranteed, to know what and how. When we talk about voluntary pension insurance, I have to point out that the SDP government has split the law that regulated together the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, because we felt that this is important given the development of the third pension pillar, because the third pension column is something that should have an impact on pensions and should allow people to have a certain part of their living conditions with the first and second pension pillar in the third pension pillar, while they are retired. And why save in the third pension column? The state has made it very clear that this is something to be promoted, so that there are state incentives, noting that even in the time of the crisis, so from 2011, here on out, when there was a problem with the budget, that these state incentives were not lifted and that they remained, which is in favour of the state being firmly behind the third pension pillar. There are also tax reliefs for employers. Also, voluntary retirement is not subject to tax, there are no restrictions on the membership of health or age, so anyone who wants to be a member can be a member of anyone who wants to, therefore, wants to pay in a third pension column. The duration of membership is not time-limited, the member chooses height, duration and dynamics of payment into the fund, payments are not mandatory, they depend on the current options of the payer. The suspension of payment or irregular payment of membership in the fund shall not be interrupted but shall continue to be kept on account and made contributions. Most importantly, I would like to point out once again that all the funds paid are the personal property of a member, as are all the funds on the second pension column of the one who pays, so the member to whom the funds are paid. The assets of the third pension pillar are inherited and the only conditions of use are 50 years of age. And that's what's very clear and very clearly explained and legally corrupt. But what we lack, we lack better propaganda of this way of saving. Of course, at a time of crisis, when wages are low and there is no room to save in the third pension pillar, I think the time has come to talk about the third pension column even more, but not only to speak, but also to include the state with the tax charge in the third pension column. One more thing to think about, which we were thinking about and then when we separated these two laws is the issue of closed pension funds in public, or state services. In fact, everywhere in the world there are closed funds for public and state services in which the state, therefore, pays some of the funds to its public and state employees in this closed pension fund, which is very strong, these are very strong funds that encourage investment in its own country. I therefore believe that the time has probably come and that we are beginning to think in the Republic of Croatia about this one closed fund for state and public services. But in order to run this, we need to have a clear vision of what we would do with the pension system. Unfortunately, in these past 3 years since the HDZ has been in power, we do not have a clear picture in which HDZ wants to develop a pension system and in which direction the pension system should be focused. What we see is that we are hearing the dictatorship of Brussels because it is obvious that Prime Minister Plenkovic wants to have the best image in Brussels and that therefore everything that comes from Brussels is without conversation. The measures announced will primarily focus on the financial sustainability of the system. In the SDP, however, we believe that measures in the pension system must be aimed at correcting the injustices committed by individual categories of pensioners. The Brussels boys, Plenkovic and Pavić obviously want the pension system, which is the system that we decide about, and not Brussels, to be subordinated to the influence of the European Commission that has no hearing about our specificities in our pension system, so that the retirement age is moved from 67 to 2038 instead of 2038 to 2033, at least so we hear, and there are no reasons, or there are no parameters to say why 2033, why is it not 2038? Except the indecisive prime minister wants to do it in half. So, 2030 was the European Commission's proposal, so we're going to put it now in 2033. There's no reason to move the retirement age in 2038. So then we'll leave at 67. There's no excuse or medical, but there's no excuse in the pension system either. We live shorter than Europeans, we will not reach their average age until 2038, and on the other hand, when we talk about the pension system, one of the reasons why we should retire at 67 years to extend the number of people who can work in certain age groups. But we forget that we in the Republic of Croatia have made which Europe does not see or recognize, that we have a large number of people in that cohort retired. You have defenders who are in a working working life, they're retired. Therefore, we have a large part of the people who could work up to 67, who are already retired. According to this, you can't force them to activate and that maybe you can, here's the European Commission also mentioned that we haven't worked very well to activate the defenders. Also, the European Commission wants to penalise the retirement age, therefore, that early pensions are retired even more, leading to pensions of these people being below the poverty line. Which means that, on the other hand, they will have to be helped through the social care system, and that social network in the Republic of Croatia should then be even more tolerated on its back by what is here, we listen to the European Commission. We in the SDP believe that there is no reason for the penalization to be tightened, because it is quite enough at this point to fit, it is balanced and there is no reason to do so, especially since the economic situation is also good at this point and there is no reason to do so. But there is one thing that is very worrying, which is the wish of the European Commission and the Government to reduce the benefit of the work experience as much as possible. We in the previous government have launched a system, therefore, auditing the benefits of a work internship with the aim of seeing who has the right to an unfettered internship, who has the right to receive this internship, but we did not go primarily to be abolished for those groups that are believed not to be. Of course, that answer will be a profession, but it is clear that this answer should also be given by policy. The profession will say its own, the policy will say its own and, therefore, it is obvious that the government is hiding its intentions about the benefits of work and there will be the most affected obviously drivers, it will not allow some other professions to enter the benefits of work. Here I mention, for example, ambulance drivers who are constantly on the road, also doctors and medical technicians who are in ambulances, believe it's very difficult to endure the whole working life working under such conditions. I hope that today we will discuss the Law on Professional Pensions, where we offer HDZ the way in which we will solve the benefits of work experience in the Republic of Croatia, where we will allow those who have the right to do this training with increased duration to get a professional pension, to enjoy a certain percentage of the professional pension and to work with that professional pension. And that's the way to deal with imbalances in the pension system. Another marked injustice is therefore, and the questionable adequateness of the pensions of future pensioners and therefore the SDP considers that such injustices in the system require a complete review of our pension system, in order to ensure transparency, solidarity of the pension system and, above all, decent pensions to our pensioners. I hereby advise the Government that the SDP will very strongly oppose those measures that will focus only on financial savings in the system, without taking any measures to ensure quality jobs and quality of work for workers and future pensioners. If there are no quality jobs, if there are no quality working conditions, if there are no high wages, then there will be no adequate pensions. And that's how the pension system should be maintained. It should be maintained in a way that we in the Republic of Croatia have well paid, good, adequate jobs, and not that we should be at the minimum. Since we believe that pension reform is an extremely serious job, the SDP will take the subject seriously with dialogue with all those interested in this topic and will propose some of its solutions and visions for further development of the pension system. What we believe in the SDP is that the time has come for all of us to review the entire '98 reform together. so far, not with the goal of abolishing it, as some MPs would like, but to see where we have to intervene that in the system and the imbalances that we have to correct in the future. And what we think that this analysis should have the support of all, which means that in order to continue reforming the pension system, I would not say reform, but the development of the pension system needs a national consensus and we offer that position. The peace system is too important for only one of them to decide and I think that we can find a national consensus and show that for this system and for the health system Croatia can go forward and be better than it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75781	Thank you, Mrs. Gristle. We have two replicas on his exhibit. Comrade Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75782	Dear Vice-President Mrsic, the respected representatives of the ministry. Voluntary pension funds or third pension pillar where members save for retirement in such a way as to pay a certain amount of monthly deposits to a personal account open in a selected voluntary pension fund. Retirement from voluntary pension funds is the only condition of 50 years of life, regardless of the right to an age pension. What do you think, in the future, about the accumulation of funds in a mandatory pension fund based on the solidarity model and whether you are proposing clear and true information to citizens, especially young citizens about the problem of possible collapse of the system of solidarity in the future and the stimulation of savings in voluntary pension funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75783	Thank you. Replication response. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75784	I don't know if you mean the first pillar or the second pillar or the whole system and the first pension column, what's quite clear is that the first pension column system that's based on a lot of people working and a few enjoying retirement, that in this situation where we are, we can't provide adequate pensions. He'll never collapse, because he's guaranteed by the state. So, let's get rid of that Stigma, that he'll collapse. So the first pension column will never collapse, as the second pension column will not collapse. What we're talking about is the issue of pension adequateness. The adequateness of pensions, what I have pointed out, will be increased and better, when we have better jobs and higher wages. We also need to solve these imbalances in the system. So, 27% of what we're going to do with those who don't work, who don't have 15 years of work, so there's one proposal from the government that we support, that it's the national pension, which is going to get those who can't earn a pension through the pension system. But the system needs to be further improved and upgraded. Noting the collapse of the pension system there will be, but it is up to us to ensure that pensions, which will be paid to those entering the labour market today, are better than they have been so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75785	Buddy Babic Ante, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75786	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. While we are talking today about 2 laws on voluntary pension funds and pension insurance companies, you have used this to actually talk about pension reform, calling for consensus, I agree, I have heard it several times from your mouth and I think we should all discuss it because it is an important topic both for us and for the pensioners and for the economic system. At one point, you were actually talking about interests with an insurance internship with an increase in duration, Colloquial with a well-infected internship and you said you were up for it, and you'd be very much against it, whether it's national legislation or with EU recommendations. However, it should be true to say, and as far as I know and suggested in your proposal of the Law on Professional Pensions that, in fact, for certain occupations today, there is no need at all for the benefits of work. So they are, like, extinct or because of certain technological solutions and shifts, there is really no need for that. We had on our committee today an initiative, one Cabin Staff Union, an Air Force of the Republic of Croatia, where it was made clear by our Labour Ministry representative, that such an initiative is actually subject to a certain procedure, and in that procedure, the Department of Medicine will, in fact, say whether it is necessary or not necessary. So, the key is that for certain occupations, there is no need for the benefits of a work internship anymore, and some countries, I will remind you, like France and Germany, they solved it through a professional pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75787	Answer, here's my colleague, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75788	Thank you very much, we in the Professional Pensions Act, which I hope we'll discuss today, we're not talking about occupations anywhere, we're just talking about the rights that they have, so, people, who we've listed, simply because of clarity, but who I am, who's going to have what level of the benefits, decides the profession. However, what I would like to point out is that in this analysis of the benefits of a work internship, it comes with the premise that it is abolished to abolish the benefits of a work experience. It's something that's wrong. It's wrong to go with the premise of abolishing the benefits of an internship. For some occupations that don't exist, like, say, so we miners don't have any more, we don't have high furnaces, so we don't have those occupations. However, there are some new occupations, which may well be supposed to get an unfettered job internship, I mentioned here, say, people who work in an ambulance, they do the same thing as firemen. Therefore, I think that what I am calling for is not to go with the premise set by the European Commission that it is necessary to lift the benefited internship in Croatia. He doesn't need to be abolished, he needs to be transferred to the system of professional retirement, and that's the way, because exactly, none of you would want to be driven by an ambulance when you're 67, simply a man can't physically handle it. Or that what we have in the fire department, that people at age 59 at age 55 can no longer work as firemen, so they're standing in stations, instead of renovating, new young personnel. Therefore, we offer a solution, we offer it to be a professional pension, that, with a professional pension, it can continue to work and that is the solution. But I appeal to both the ministry and yours in the opposition, don't go with the premise that the benefits should be lifted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75789	Thank you. We are done with the replicas on the presentation of the Club of Representatives, we continue with an individual debate, the first colleague is Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75790	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, and in this time that was at our disposal, about the discussions, under these two laws that are being discussed today, the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Insurance Companies, we actually touched on those topics that affect our citizens' pensioners, the pension system itself, actually pension funds, and that was actually the most important thing. Although these two laws, which are before us, are actually about the implementation of a directive, a directive, which is related to the recommendation of the Council of Europe, etc. ... and then the EU Directive, which values the rights of workers, relating to the supplementary pension. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both once and in the other case, and this is evident from the description of the situation, the very proposal of this law, enables the HANFA to actually collect data in the percentages of the issue of consent for the acquisition of qualifying shares and the issuance of consent to perform the functions of management members in financial institutions in order to prevent the acquirers of qualifying shares in financial institutions or members of management in financial institutions becoming persons who are co-workers of persons convicted of criminal offences, therefore it is visible for the purpose of preventing money laundering, but also for the sole control of funds. In fact, the first bill speaks of improving the right to freedom of movement of workers and further facilitating mobility by improving the very system of acquisition and preservation of the right to an additional pension of workers going to work in another EU member state. So, the Law itself defines the concept of a supplementary pension from a supplementary pension system for which in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, what we heard today, there was no definition, even though our pension system actually knows a system of supplementary pensions through pensions that can be achieved within voluntary pension insurance based on individual capitalised savings. In the second case, the Law strictly defines the concepts of workers on departure, i.e. users of delayed pensions and pension rights in a state of rest, as prescribed by the directive itself. So, once again, it should be said that actually, on departure workers are defined as a member of a closed fund where work relationship has taken place due to going to another Member State, which does not yet meet the conditions for the exercise of the right to comply with the applicable law, while for the user of the delayed pensions, it is defined as a member of a closed fund which has actually ceased working relationship due to going to work in another Member State, and this user himself, in fact, has met the conditions for retirement under the applicable Act, but has not yet been used with that right. A member of the closed pension fund, which is clearly stated in this Act, until the conditions for retirement are met, can also remain a member of the closed pension fund, which is clearly stated in this Act, which should be particularly highlighted, i.e. after the conditions for retirement are met. The law also states that when leaving, workers are provided with one-time payment of the collected and capitalised funds in their account, but the obligation of a pension society to provide additional information at the request of the fund's members regarding the conditions for obtaining the right to retire in the event of termination of the employment relationship, which is very important for the emphasis, I say, on these technical changes are the two laws in this united debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75791	Thank you. We're going on, I'm sorry. So we have one replica, colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75792	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: At the last minute.]] I didn't expect my colleague Babic to end this quickly. Comrade Babić, you have touched one topic at the end of your debate, and I think that we here in the Parliament must especially highlight it for a few reasons. Very often here we have a debate about people who have found themselves in trouble because they have not been informed enough about what is waiting for them and this financial industry, should be called, offers new products. As a legislator, we must give our fellow citizens, in fact, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia new ways in which they want to be provided at times when their work stops. However, what is a great responsibility, which is informing people what, what can happen positively to them, which can happen to them negatively because this story around the second pillar that has stalled somewhere halfway and the state will probably have to intervene at some point, as well as in what way, it will simply point to when we bring certain legal changes to give enough information to future users in which direction it is going because everyone here has an interest, to understand. And our basic task is to pass a law that will give some new opportunity to our citizens and offer them something better and better quality, but we also have to give information because unfortunately, very often we pass laws that have a great impact on the future of our citizens, but very often these laws are practically left bewitched in like a shell, very few of those who use know what is waiting for them, and some of them are very good at using it. So I think that when we pass these laws regarding retirement, we need to act in a very educational way. I think it's supposed to be the task of one ministry first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75793	Thank you. Answer. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75794	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Shuker. And even this debate today, during the morning, actually enables users of pensions and those who will become actually educated, and what you said in that hyperproduction of certain laws, is that this lack of information actually or confusion with the users themselves leads to the reduction of their rights, or the inability to use better opportunities for the pensioners themselves. I remember when we talked here about REGOS and certain changes, that we were talking about that... a, b and c, that mainly due to non-reporting within a certain time period, people are placed in one and neither c with high risks, but in b funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, I, as far as I know, and HZMO, in accordance with its capabilities in an adequate way, informs pensioners or future pensioners, it is possible and should, and from the experience of other countries may not only work more on education but also on the campaign itself in order to have as much responsibility as possible towards these users. I say, therefore, this debate serves this, although these two laws are actually only about technical changes, changes that are related to these two directives that we were talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75795	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Maras Gordan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75796	Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague. I'm going to start my debate not as I imagined it, but here's what's now been offered and partly a little bit of a previous replica of my colleagues from HDZ where unfortunately I see it's evident that the fantasy of picking up money from the second pension column and returning it to the state budget hasn't ended yet. And I think it's wrong, and I'm telling the HDZ very clearly that it's money from our citizens and that they take their fingers off that money because these money is what our citizens are saving so they can pay their pensions in some future period. It is not evident that something here needs to be returned to the budget of Mr Shucker from the second pension pillar, but it is evident that there is a need to strengthen the separation, that the state should make certain savings to allow the pay to be higher in the second pension column. But what is much more important about this law should be pointed out, of course, that any control and every initiative in this case and European certain bodies that will go after greater transparency and money control related to certain actions that can be harmful to the state and society, and that controls the possibility of connecting with both persons who had ties with crime and terrorism. And if you get such specific directives from the European Commission, We'll accept that. But it is inadmissible at the same time to listen to the European Commission unspeakable as the Plenkovic Government does and shortens the time of adaptation to retirement. Because as we heard today during the morning that Croatian citizens should retire in 2038. There's a certain dynamic, there's a certain kind of dynamic, and I'd say penalization for those who leave early. But now, just for the sole reason of the European Commission's request to speed it up, to make our citizens more penalized to hear it, not to. This should not be done and we should not slave to the ambitions of HDZ President who is going to harm our fellow citizens. So the very clear message was sent by Plenkovic to Croatian citizens this weekend, that since 2033, the reform proposed by him and his government in retirement in Croatia will leave at 67 years of age. The very clear message is sent by Andrej Plenkovic and his government to increase the pension for those older people who could possibly go away a little earlier than 67 years of retirement, but the pension will be such that people will de facto make them work until the last second, to the last hundredth of their lives and to the fulfillment of 67 years. And it is very clear that Andrej Plenkovic's message is that he is going after the restriction of the unfettered professions. For example, the people who carry other people, means the drivers they have in Croatia, it seems to me, somewhere around 5,000 and slightly more people who deal with this profession and who have an unfettered internship, Plenkovic and HDZ say no, no. You're not going to have an unfettered work experience because now it's a privilege to drive a bus. Like that, it's no longer what it was 20 years ago, like in that movie "Drive a Mouse". Oh, no? So it's not you anymore, it's not those buses anymore. Not now it's a privilege to drive a bus because there's an air conditioning, a good CD, you can listen to music, you have a camera on the side, etc. Well, that's not the point. It's a responsible job. People are excruciatingly psycho-physically spent and no one has the right to eliminate, for example, the drivers of the ZET in the city of Zagreb, an unfettered working internship carrying tens and hundreds of thousands of our citizens here every day. And Plenkovic and Minister Pavic are coming and talking, sending a message over the weekend. For example, drivers need to get rid of it. Why? Because that's what the European Commission and Juncker said. I don't care what Juncker said! I don't care what Plenkovic said. These people need protection. Have Plenkovic sit on a bus or a tram and drive 8 hours every day thousands and thousands of our citizens, so he'll see if the bus has air conditioning or no air conditioning. It's a job that spends a lot of money. And that's why ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ need to accept some things, but in the interest of our fellow citizens, there are some things to be accepted. There is no one's right because of their petty personal ambition in the European Commission to expose thousands and thousands of our fellow citizens number one who should retire at 67 years of 2033 to de facto sending them a message we will even more penalize you if you think about going early retirement. The second message that is being implemented is colleagues and colleagues, dear citizens and citizens, the prime minister and HDZ sends you a message that you can go directly to the cemetery in some situations from your workplace, that is the message that Andrej Plenkovic and HDZ send and should not agree to that. And I think that the debates that are ahead of us that will mark pension reform should be directed in this direction, should be said that we will protect our citizens, I don't care what the European Commission thinks about whether we need to speed up certain things, let's speed up the reforms that are related to the economic sector and withdrawing funds from the EU. That's what we need to think about, and it needs to be speeded up. Why wasn't that on the agenda? The first thing HDZ announced, which is why it is not the first judiciary that we do not have a radical situation that Milan Bandic has been waiting four years to be tried in Zagreb for the crimes that USKOK has committed, seven out of ten have now confirmed him after four years. Which is why HDZ does not talk about it and insists that the judicial reform is carried out so that people feel justice that they have been smuggled into a tram in the city of Zagreb if you were caught by a controller, they would have ended up already with punishment and they would have done it, they would have charged you these new ones three times already. But the mayor of Zagreb has been practically almost for four years, so he is not responsible for the works that the USKOK puts on him. Why didn't you reform the unit of local self-government? Why do we have 20 counties? These are the things that we should talk about here and that we should discuss, but first we don't push those who are the most needed pensioners who have them almost a million have a pension under 2,000 kuna, and now let's make it even harder for as many people to retire as possible. And they're being sent a message once again I'm going to tell you, you can go directly to the cemetery from your workplace and you won't enjoy it if you can even say that you enjoy a pension because a pension of 2,000 kunas can't afford anyone any pleasure but just giving up. And once again, lastly, I'm ending up, remove the 91 billion kuna fingers, remove the 91 billion kuna fingers our fellow citizens have been saving. Do not patch your holes with that money but do reforms where you can, and I told you what areas they are and on the other hand focus on what we should do to the citizens and the reforms that we need to implement in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75797	At the presentation of our colleagues, Maras, we have one replica, Col. Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75798	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you have well said that this government without speaking, fulfils all the tasks of the European Commission and that unfortunately today we do not have a prime minister behind the crazy European Commission's mandate, this is not the only case, it can say no to them and can say that I am Croatian Prime Minister protecting the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens are my first priority. In fact, you summed up well that the messages that are being sent these days are being carried out all that the European Commission has said, we are doing everything Juncker has said, but now it is clear why it is so. This is not only because we have a weak prime minister who does not have the state's virtues to tell them no but only in HDZ can he say what they cannot do, but also because it is now evident that the prime minister wants to join the European Commission, that he wants to speak for the President of the European Commission and that message sent to our citizens, you will be from his post at the cemetery, and I will be from my post in the European Commission today is all present in the Croatian public and we can wait for Prime Minister Plenkovic to get on a plane and say he is driving Misko to Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75799	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75800	Thank you very much. My colleague Djujic, they are not all things and the Priors are not bad enough that Plenkovic listened. Let's say about the Istanbul Convention, he listened not only to us from the opposition that we're talking about but a year ago we referred it to the procedure in the Croatian Parliament, which is where Plenkovic apparently listened after we sent the proposal he listened to his European tutors and it was that key step he took to try to impose that thesis on his party too. So there are certain things that are good to listen to when you're not going to get to some quality conclusions about what is needed for Croatia and what is normal, what is the right thing to follow, what needs to be pawned for because you have problems within your party then it is not bad to listen to a quality proposal from the European Commission. And on this side, I commend Prime Minister Plenkovic for listening not only to the opposition or to the SDP that the Istanbul Convention should be ratified, but also to the Council of Europe's gentlemen, the Secretary General Jagland and Juncker of the European Commission. And it is good that he did not listen, for example, to some HDZ colleagues whose disaster is and who cannot accept it at all. And it will be nice to see here that green around normal things and on the HDZ side of voting around the Istanbul Convention. And I call on us to get that subject off the agenda as soon as possible. So not everything Prime Minister Plenkovic hears from Europe is bad and negative But this is. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: I thank my colleague Marasa.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75801	Thank you. At present, colleagues of Ivan Lovrinović are not in the assembly, so we conclude the debate. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Majda Buric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75802	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, thanks for the debate, which has been quite intense, and has touched, of course, our amendments and the addition of the law, but it has come under the common denominator, pension reform, or the lives of the pensioners, etc.. So I would actually start from the focus of today's agenda, which is two amendments to the law. So, I am glad that you all agreed in fact on the importance of harmonising with Recommendation 23 concerning the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as on the implementation of 2014/50 of the EU related to improving the mobility of workers among Member States, by improving the acquisition and preservation of supplementary pension rights. Moreover, there has been a lot of talk today about a third pillar, or voluntary retirement. I don't think it'd be worse to repeat a few details about it. So there were 16 thousand and 512 members in voluntary pension funds on 31 January 2018. Of these, there were 286 thousand and 867 members in the open voluntary pension funds that we did not discuss today in the context of these amendments and additions, while there were 30 thousand and 276 members in closed voluntary pension funds. Just a note, the difference between an open and closed fund, the open fund is the one that we enter the counter and start the savings procedure in the third pension fund, the closed fund is the one that forms the employer or union. The number of members of open and closed voluntary pension funds increased compared to the previous year by 28 thousand 627 new members. Growth is evident from almost 9% compared to the previous year. But I will continue to agree with you, with everyone who has discussed this insufficiently, and there is indeed room for the further growth of third-degree members, which, of course, depends on information and on the degree of education and financial literacy and of course, above all on the possibilities. The total net assets of voluntary pension funds on 31 January this year amounted to as I already said 4.7 billion kuna, increased by 368 million kuna compared to the previous year. Out of the total net assets, the assets of open voluntary pension funds amounted to 3.9 billion while the pension of closed voluntary pension funds amounted to 846 million kuna. It should also also be mentioned once again that voluntary retirement is a saving form with two types of incentives. We mentioned both types, I think we should point them out one more time, so it's 15% of the incentive to no more than 5,000 kuna, so it's 750 kuna a year. And of course regarding the tax-recognized expenditure of up to $6,000 a year. Once again, I believe it is necessary to appeal to further financial literacy and awareness-raising related to voluntary pension savings, but also generally with all three pillars of insurance and the first and third pillars, where we can see that the UMFO pension fund association is also working intensively, which also held a large conference one day in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the central insurance register, etc. And we believe it will continue. This would therefore be related to the focus of today's agenda of two points related to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and Mandatory Pensions. Since the debate had gone quite extensively, there was much to be said about pension reform. I need to point out once again that we have announced both previous years and communicated and this year in the second quarter of this year we are moving towards a comprehensive pension reform and that in the context of which we will fully edit and improve all three pillars of pension insurance so that both first and third. Of course, in cooperation with the social partners, in cooperation with the scientific community, the interested public and everyone interested. It is very important to point out that it is highly complex activities and in the context of which we have worked out comprehensive depth analysis in the previous period, a deep scan of the entire system but of course also the effects of possible solutions in order to ensure that all pensions are extremely important, without discrimination, with the sustainability of the pension system, the long-term sustainability of the pension system and, of course, in accordance with Croatian economic opportunities. What I think is worth correcting and what is said here in the debate is what the prime minister said about pension reform. Prime Minister Plenkovic said in Dnevnik on Friday that he supports pension reform and that pension reform goes into 2018. What's further imputed here isn't true, I don't think you've been well informed. Of course, I have read in newspapers and online stations all of what you have said here, but it was never said by Prime Minister Plenkovic or Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Marko Pavić. What I think should be appealed to is that such a serious topic is also spoken of in a serious way, to lower the level of passion, to adjust the political discourse to the seriousness of the situation and that it is not necessary to scare the people and to spread panic. So once again, I'd like to repeat some of the figures that have been given here by distinguished parliamentary representatives. Therefore, on the basis of a review of the basic data on the state of the pension scheme, 306000 persons receive pensions in February 2018 to 1500 kuna. Up to 3,000 kuna pensions receive from 2000 to 3000 kuna 364 000 pensioners. We should look at the whole structure and when we look at the whole structure then we must also mention those pensions based on international contracts. Such pensions are actually on average 750 kuna. And what that means is a pension under the international contract, so it is she who enters this category from 500 to 1000 kuna and in the number of users of 86213. However, these are people who spent some time in the Republic of Croatia and on this basis achieved a certain part of the pension. The second part of the pension is paid to them from another country where they have already completed their retirement period. It should also be mentioned that the average pension for the user who worked 40 years and over, which has so much insurance standing, and without international contracts, is that this average pension is 4313 kuna and that its share in average salary is 72%. So here I'm talking about an insurance guy who's worked 40 years and more. Such pensioners in the Republic of Croatia are only 19%, while in Germany, for example, it's twice as much. So I'm going to be free, so I'm going to get this table with concrete and accurate data that goes from month to month, and we're not going to listen to any more incorrect data. Because I don't think it's good to misinformed the public. Indeed the numbers are what they are, there are positive indicators, there are negative indicators. We are fully aware that the quality of life from the pension of 1500 kuna or 2000 kuna cannot live, and that is why the problem should be approached very seriously and solved in a way that achieves the adequateness of pensions as I think of all of us today. We have heard here about the dictatorship of Brussels, and speaking in fact about the recommendations of the European Commission, so the recommendations of the European Commission are those based on deep analysis, on facts. The recommendation is what a Member State can and does not have to accept and does not have to follow. However, the recommendation is always welcome because it was created at the level of deep analysis, not at the level of adjudication. And that is why it is not good to call these recommendations the dictatorship of Brussels which they are not. And here it is, once again I thank you for everything and for a concrete and correct extensive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75803	Thank you. We have six replicas at the State Secretary's office. He's a colleague of Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75804	Thank you very much. My colleagues at these exhibitions and findings, which is essentially the most important, which is that with a pension in Croatia you cannot live with dignity. That's what you said here from both 1500 and two and two and a half thousand and 3,000 kuna. Look at the cost of living. But what you pointed out, which I particularly disagree with is pension reform, you said should be built on solidarity. Yeah, you said it. Look at the little stenogram and now tell me what solidarity it is if the most in the pension reform is to make certain savings redistribute to the harm of the elderly who, in this case at 67 years of age, should retire in 2033 or who will be more retired than they are for early retirement. So in other words, if someone can't work up to 67 years, his pens will be twice or three times as big as they were today compared to what you're going to suggest. What kind of solidarity is that? What kind of help is that to our citizens? What kind of compassion would it be for me to say to those who have the most difficulty, and on the other hand, to listen to the European Commission's recommendations unspeakably. I don't see any difference, no difference from those five years that you now want to steal from more Croatians I wouldn't tell the pensioners but to those who should just become pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75805	Thank you, colleague Maras. Here's your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75806	Thank you, esteemed colleague, Mr. Maras. So soon, indeed this year will be the time for us to also discuss in this assembly the government's resolutions of Andrej Plenkovic regarding pension reform. You will know everything in time, and if you really need to impute what Minister Marko Pavić has never said, nor Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, then I must say it is very unserious. So the only thing we've been communicating is what I've already mentioned three times. It is a very serious reform, any reform should be serious if I think it is, about functionality and sustainability, etc. So I think it's not good to scare the people, spread panic. Very soon you will all have a chance to discuss a pension reform solution that is never communicated by this government, as you say. And yet, the recommendations of the European Commission, based on facts and on depth analysis, are the ones that can bring us benefits and once again, I repeat, they are recommendations, not any directive as you claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75807	Replica number 2, colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75808	Secretary of State, I know it's your job to defend the Minister and Prime Minister, indecisive, though, but don't tell the truth. Because, here, I think it was March 2017, the Commission came to Zagreb, met with Minister Pavić and the Prime Minister, the Commission estimates that there was no shift in reform of the pension system and social care system, and in the area of coordination of wages in the public sector. And instead of going the other way and saying no to the European Commission, that you didn't spend it because you didn't want to spend it, because what you want to do is cause big problems among the citizens, because you want to lift the benefits, you want to get people to retire at 67. 2030. That means you have to start in 2025 with the alignment. So it takes you four or five years, or you're going to go every year to go a year faster. On the other hand, it will be a problem with women who coordinate with pensions from 65 to 2030. You're going to cancel your unfettered job experience, and that's all not popular. And apparently they've all come from the European Commission now, because the diameter obviously wants to show the European Commission that he listens to it, and Minister Pavić has been saying for two years that we have full reform, etc. And today Minister Pavic said that there it is, at an early stage, but that by the end of the year we will have already harmonised laws and so on. So who are you petting? 6 months of one meaningful reform, to which you will receive a consensus of all and retired associations and unions and employers and our opposition cannot spend within 6 months because it is simply not prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75809	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75810	I thank Mr Mrsic, therefore, when we talk about reforms, which this government has implemented and implemented, we must really start from the tax reform that we discussed here at the end of 2016, and which has relieved Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs of between 2.5 billion and 3 billion kuna with a package of these laws. It's tax reform. If I know, the other day you were discussing a package of laws related to the Ministry of Justice, that is, a legislative package. Once again, pension reform was announced in the second quarter of 2018. You will have opportunities, we will have opportunities to change our views when we offer our solutions and solutions to the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. I mean, and it's not good really, in me in this particular case to put in my mouth what I never said. So here it is, I think we should be patient in that sense and we'll talk about solutions in time and exchange views on it. Soon there'll be time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75811	Next replica, colleague Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75812	Dear Secretary of State Majda Buric, I must confess that I like you and that you are a beautiful woman, but a reform of the pension system, which HDZ proposes neither is beautiful nor I like. The extension of the working age to 67 years in reality represents work to the death. This means that people will have to spend 2 years more in the pension system than they will receive a pension, and many will never experience it. This recommendation from the European Commission, to extend the working life, is a bad decision, i.e. a bad recommendation and our government is making a mistake by accepting it. On this occasion, I just want to point out that the Living Wall will be against this policy, that it condemns such a policy and that it opposes the consensual relationship... Brussels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And on the other hand, I want to point out to our citizens that every government that is obedient will implement that policy that they do not want as citizens, but bureaucrats from Brussels like Gunther Etinger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75813	Thank you. The next replica, by Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Buric, I am always pleased to see you in the Assembly, my comment actually refers somewhat in a similar tone as my colleagues Mrsic, namely, in... The European Commission's pension reform is one of those 12% areas where it is said that progress is indeed not available. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's hard to think, we're really waiting for that pension reform as the cold sun, I can only say that I hope that it will be as comprehensive as announced, because some imbalances that btw tax reform you mentioned in the same report are listed as something that, as the SDP has been saying all along, caused further growth of inequality in income. So it wasn't great either, but in the pension system, I think the big problem is that pensions under special regulations are increased significantly, and at the same time these retirement pensions are actually expected to work longer, I'm not sure how you're going to combine it, that without any more radical points. Here's so much from me. Good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75815	Replication response. Next replica of my colleague Misic Ivica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75817	Thank you, Vice President. Respected secretary of state. I want to ask you a question that I almost asked in this assembly, a question of a pensioner whose entire pension has gone away. You know, we've had this conversation before. What do I mean by that? That's true, you know that in the pension fund that the banks allowed the full citizen's pension to be taken down and that's all possible because the Constitutional Court brought it and I checked it out, embarrassingly but it brought it. I'm asking you another question now. When you wanted to remove that pension with one feather and allow the bank to charge, did you consider whether this citizen has somewhere to live, what he will live on and where he will live tomorrow? No, you're not, gentlemen. When you solve such a citizen's problem with a feather, then you decide that he has a place to live, reside and have something to eat, and you didn't think about it, neither did the Constitutional Court. It's what the Slatine Bank did in Osijek, and I'm funding it, but it doesn't matter now. When you leave such citizens on the street, make sure that citizen has something to live on and has something to eat. You didn't check it out, you don't care. When I called you when I tried to solve it, of course you couldn't because the law passed the Constitutional Court, but you could have checked whether that citizen had something to live on and whether he should be put into a home or an institution that would solve his problems. That's what I'm talking about, it's probably not one citizen, it's hundreds of them. And I'm asking you the next time you're going to take away, unfortunately, citizens like that, first you see if that man has a place to live and then you sort it out. And unfortunately such a bank that goes to the end of a full pension is not any bank that is Slatinska Banka and a disgrace to this society and our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75818	Thank you, fellow Muscle. Replication response, Mrs. Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75819	Thank you. Dear Mr. Muscle. First of all, I would like to say that this is a problem to which the formal official answer should be given by the Ministry of Justice since it is an executive law and it would be very unserious of me to talk about it as State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and the pension system from this place. But here, Mr. Mišic, you mentioned the problem of these people's social problem in any case, I want to say that I am very aware of this question that I know what you're talking about, but on the other hand you understand my position from the aspect of the function that I am doing and that from this point on such a question concerning the Ministry of Justice cannot give an answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75820	Thank you. And a colleague of Shuker's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75821	Thank you very much. My colleague Buric, I liked that gesture of yours when you said with those tables that you should give and share for the reasons that very often because of me, honestly speaking several times unknown reasons, some colleagues simply violate some of the things they raised their hands for as members of the government. And you know how much richer the second pillar of retirement would have been if it hadn't been for the change of the law in 2013 that because of the budgeting and the better showing of the picture, it wasn't 5.5 billion kunas transferred from the second pillar of the pension to the budget, although it was clearly prescribed that at the time that Croatian police officers and Croatian soldiers went into retirement and were paid their pensions, but the quota part from the second pillar of the pension goes to this pension fund and that's how it goes. That's how much the facts do when we talk one way or the other. However, I think that this is a topic which does not tolerate politics, this is a topic in which, regardless of which side of Parliament, we all need to use our life experience to make the future of our pensioners financially as high-quality as possible. And I think that in this direction we should discuss because a colleague of Greece has said, and this information is very often mentioned in my discussions for years, which is that somewhere around 850 thousand Croatian pensioners have a pension under 3000 kuna. And I think when we're discussing in this retirement assembly that it must always be on our mind, not that we're pushing it one way or another because you're taking the income on these 5.5 billion in four years if the average contribution is 6% on the second pillar of retirement, count on it four years times six twenty-four, 24% on six billion is one billion and one more kuna, so count on how poor the second pillar of retirement is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75822	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75823	Thank you. Dear colleague Shuker. So I agree with you on the seriousness of the situation and the subject, and that is the way we should stand. It is true that what you said is that 850,691 is a retired person who receives a pension of up to 3000 kuna, I am really glad that some MPs are reading very specific data, and to those who need help, we are available with basic data and I am glad that in this sense we will be responsible and seriously continue to continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75824	Thank you. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 306 and on the final proposal of the Pension Insurance Companies Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. We'll vote number 307 when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75825	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 306. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote 89 for, 4 abstentions has been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75927	We move to the next item of the agenda for which I propose that we also unite it, which is: - Report by the Minister of the Interior in 2015, Report by the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of police affairs in 2016 – submiter: Minister of the Interior The Report is the Minister of the Interior based on Article 4. The law of the police. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Gender Equality. The government also delivered an opinion. Do the applicants want to provide an additional explanation? State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior Mr. Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75928	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is the report on the conduct of the Home Secretary's police work on the basis of Article 4. The law of the police. In addition to this report submitted at least once a year by the Minister of the Interior, it is required to submit a report at the request of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security where the Committee considers it appropriate and asks the Minister. The denominations and structure of police work were arranged by the Police Act, and the way police officers were handled by the Law on Police Affairs and Powers. Police are a public administrative service operating in the interior ministry. These jobs are being done in the Police Directorate as well as in 20 police administrations and 185 police stations. Of these 185 police stations 139 are basic, 20 are traffic, and the rest carry out border controls and controls at the state border or at airports or seaports. Police work is such that it's done 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. A policeman must always be available to police officers. Police regularly cooperate or assist various state bodies, local and regional self-government units, various public services, for example social services. Then the firemen, civil protection, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, civil society organisations and associations. Police work is also taking place on an international plan through Europol membership, Interpol, through contracts, bilateral agreements on international police co-operation. We are often proud to point out our project to a safe tourist season where police officers from 18 countries have been coming to the Republic of Croatia since 2006 during the summer tourist season and are helping Croatian police officers and officials to do their best in working with foreign guests and to make foreign guests feel safe in our country, to get all the necessary information. Police also place much on the public's work through communication and contacts with citizens, civil society associations and the media. However, regardless of all the structure, the basis of the success of police work is a police officer and a police officer. Therefore, a police officer who is well-trained and trained, who is thorough, polite and decent in his conduct, tactful in dealings especially with victims of criminal acts and who pours a sense of security and trust on the part of citizens. This is what the Croatian police are working on and we want this sense of security and trust to be in front of us for years bigger and bigger. In the past, in 2015 and the 16th year for which the report is submitted, police have done their regular work to prevent criminal behaviour, prevent criminality, protect and control the state border, air traffic and sail our sea and inland waterways, as well as increase road safety. These jobs were carried out in 2015, so at the end of that year 25672 police officers, and one year later there were 375 fewer, so 25297. Croatian police have been trying for years to increase the number of police officers in their composition. He's now moving around 17 and a half, 18%. It's growing slightly, but it seems to be an effort to make it bigger, because we think that women, police officers are doing a great job and that they are in some jobs and better than their male colleagues. When it comes to police, there's always talk and mention of repression and repressive apparatus. However, we at the Ministry of Interior and in the Croatian police are constantly stressing prevention. Prevention is based on the success of each such service, so our police and in these years as well as the years that followed in the MUP are carried out various preventive projects such as I will only mention a few of which are the longest, most important in our court such as the Five Health Project, which works to prevent addiction, so on alcohol, drugs, gambling. Of course, these jobs and these preventive activities cannot be carried out without other institutions and without civil society. Then there is living life without violence, which focuses on preventing violence against women, then I have a choice, it is a preventive programme that strengthens the Roma National Community and prevents and reduces all forms of hate and violence. Then the project is less weapons, less tragedy, which aims to reduce the amount of tools among citizens, in particular, to completely eradicate illegal weapons that are possibly still owned by citizens. When it comes to the prevention of criminal conduct, of course, it is primarily thought of the offence of the crime in 2015 that 88000 so almost 90000 violations were recorded, primarily according to the Law on Public Order and Peace, a year later there were just over 91225. Total violations against public order and peace make up a little more than a quarter of total violations, while by other laws, and there are hundreds of them, as you know, who have their infringement provisions, are about 73% and according to local authorities' decisions we have about a little more than 1% of cases, so they account for 1% of the total number of violations. Infringements are often, as we know about public gatherings, at the annual level in these years about 19,000 were brought in and around 1,500 people were brought in on an annual basis and criminal charges were filed and, of course, most of the misdemeanors were reported. The most severe forms of punitive behavior are, of course, criminal acts, and their number in these years is about 90,000. For most of them, the procedure was initiated on official duty. When we talk about violations and criminal acts, in particular criminal acts, it is of course important that the degree of resolution is resolved, it was 61.1% in these 2 years. Depending on the year-to-year, focus is placed on certain types of criminal acts, so, for example, in these years, the emphasis is placed on the repression of corruption and the repression of high-tech crime, which is constantly marked by the increase and the great challenge of the police, at today's stage of the development of the virtual dimension of society. And the number of these crimes is on the rise and rising annually by 30 percent and more. Of course, what we often see and hear as citizens and what we are particularly sensitive to because all of us and our family are road users, police, pay great attention to road safety, especially preventive activities, which may not be seen often, but they are really present in different areas, from working with children in pre-school institutions, schools, through partners such as the Croatian Autoclub. And our efforts to reduce the number of people killed and severely injured year by year. Here I can say unfortunately that he did not produce enough fruit, he, from year to year decline, here in 2016 was 307 people, so it was 41 people less than a year ago, but unfortunately here in the past we are now growing the report again, so the constant efforts to reduce the number of victims in traffic. A few words on the protection of national borders and security at the border. In this very year 2015 and 2016, we witnessed a major migration crisis that faced our country, in less than 6 months from mid-September 2015 to March 2016, and recorded 658000 migrants fleeing either war violence or the lack of property of their countries of origin and seeking a safe roof over the head and existence in Europe, Western European countries, EU countries. Croatian police have generally admitted the job has done the best possible at a given moment. As for the citizenship of migrants who came into the wave, the majority were citizens of Syria, slightly less than half, followed by the citizens of Afghanistan, with about 30% and Iraq with 15% of the total number of migrants. This is the time of travel, our country is a tourist destination, the number of tourists per year is growing and around 163 million crossings of the state border are about 30% of Croatian citizens travelling abroad and returning and 70% of the total number are foreigners, either from EU countries or from third countries. For example, the total traffic in Croatian airports at 9 of our airports in 2016 was almost 6 million and 200 thousand passengers, which was an increase of 8% compared to the year before. The Croatian police are dedicated, of course, to overall security in the country, and in this respect they are carrying out eyewitnesses of fires and technological explosions. Unfortunately, our fellow citizens also die here and great material damage is caused very often, so, for example, in 2015, 24 people were killed in fires and explosions by 12 people. Croatian police officers must be well trained and know how to apply their powers under the law. In 2015 they used a total, i.e. 3570 use of coercion funds, however, in most cases, except in several cases, that use was legitimate. So, the goal is for police officers to act proportionately, only to use coercion when they cannot, in other ways, prevent a protected person or object from being threatened by this number of illegal use of coercion as little as possible. He's really low right now. However, we also record frequent attacks on police officers in which rarely police officers get hurt more easily or more seriously. Fortunately, there were no dead police officers in this period. So that police officers, in all, over 20,000 police officers, can do their job with quality and model care and a number of employees and subsistence officers of the MUP. The MUP total numbers at this time 25300 employees, therefore, were slightly more in the observed period for which the report was submitted and these officials therefore must keep an eye on, one part of them, of course, that the police officer has a uniform, means and equipment to work and that when he is in his place of work, very often, on the ground, on the street, on the road, he can be dedicated to doing his duties and be at the service of the citizens. Here, I've provided some data, but of course, the largest number of data these reports contain thousands of data, I don't think that's there and it's hard, it would take a lot of time for all that data to shoot. They are as important as seeing trends in movement and what the Ministry of Police is doing to reduce the number of crimes and increase the safety of citizens and society as a whole. So if there are certain questions, with me are my colleagues and associates, Mr. Brkovac, Mr. Bukvic and Mr. Vrblanin from general, from the basic police in crime and from the border, so I can provide quality answers to your questions in all areas of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75929	I thank Mr. Secretary of State Katic for this explanation of the report. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Katic, I answered because I want to point out a problem that was asked by your employees, or our officers. It's about the law to prevent riots in sports competitions. So, for a long time, the Law has turned out to be a violation and what your employees warn me about are often in trouble because since there is no such thing as a violation of the said, they cannot say in their actions the measures of the distance of hooligans from the sports grounds because of the fighting, and then we have an absurd situation today that a greater crime is to drink two beers at a football game than a mass fight, and we are witnessing an increase in these events and these violations. Here, a few months ago we had a situation that they were set up, I'll say hooligans, it's not fans for sure, from Sibenik drove to Senj after the other fans and then there were mass fights. About 10-15 days ago in Rijeka, there was a fight in front of the Youth Hall between the two groups where your employees acted and a few people were brought in. However, they can only be treated on the basis of the prevention of public order and against public order and peace, which is the violation of penalties of a couple of 100 kunas and they pay it, and when the fighting would return to the Law on the prevention of riots in sports competitions, then they could also be imposed on them by measures prohibiting attending sports events and I think it was much more effective when it was, so I would like to point out that problem again as a violation of the provisions of that Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75931	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sashi Djujic. Answer. Mr. Katic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75932	Dear Mr. Representative, it is the amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts in Sports Competitions but, above all, for this year, the adoption of a new Law on Public Order and Peace violations is envisaged, and there will be the possibility that sanctions will be significantly increased, of course. Unfortunately, the law has become obsolete and the sanctions are underprivileged to the criminal offences that are taking place. And these changes, the law envisioned for the second quarter, that it will be here in front of the MPs, will increase significant sanctions and will be followed by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts in Sports Competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75933	I thank Mr. Katic for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75934	Dear Vice President, I thank you. Mr. Katicou, I'm very sorry to have sent you on such an ungrateful mission. Namely, the Law on Police Affairs, the Police Act very clearly defines who is reporting, and this is the minister of police affairs. And with all due respect to colleagues, police officers who are not even the rank of State Secretary or Assistant Minister, and that is normal for you in the Croatian Parliament, we do not respect this Assembly. Well, then, I want to say once again that I'm sorry that we brought you into this situation, that you've never really done police work and you have to answer these questions today. And then I'm going to point out how much you don't really know the subject. You stated that there were more than 25 thousand police officers in 2015, which is a completely incorrect figure, you didn't miss by much but by one 5 grand. Therefore, you should at least inform yourself and read what it says in that report if you are already coming here to replace a minister who does not respect the Croatian Parliament and who has not entitled to appear after this speaker and defend the report, regardless of whose it is. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75935	I thank my colleague Ostojić. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75936	Dear colleagues from the ministry, staff. So, for citizenship, the last stop, to get citizenship is to get a police administration of Blackie, I had some unpleasant experiences there before with people waiting 29 months to get citizenship. I wonder if there are any changes in this law, or with Croats outside the country that they should not wait 3 years, this unfair treatment, parents get citizenship and children don't. I don't know, they're talking about a demographic monster, so if it's logical if someone lives outside and wants to go back that they shouldn't be Croat until the third generation but he'll come here, they'll learn the language. I went to Canada when I was 8 years old, and no one expected me to know the language when I was running away in '61. from the state of one, we have an officer who was still in that service, still active. In Canada, they renamed the M.E.P.D. as a police service, there was a force policy, there was a service. I wish you all the best, too, but I must say that I am looking at some of the heads that were stolen from me in 2002 by my passport, driver's license and other documents, and there were some other redesigned characters, such as the Croatian general. It's unimaginable, why up, it's a different story. Now the phones are being tapped, and he needs a warrant from the Supreme Court for listening, so why are my phones being tapped? How? Am I a threat to national security? And when we're going to integrate those Croats out of the country, one painless so I can tell the process not to wait for three to come here, because they come here, 80% might have real estate, they're integral, part of Croatian society and they're not border Ustasha, if you know what I mean. And that's intentional sabotage for me, and I hope there'll be an end to it. And you're in power now, not that party.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75937	I thank my esteemed colleague. My colleague, I would kindly ask you to stick to the subject in your replicas, citizenship is not the subject of this debate, but the report by the Minister of the Interior for 2015/2106. A year. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75938	Dear Vice President, I thank you. Article 232 has just been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and you have rightly warned and this is the report on the conduct of police affairs, the affairs of citizenship do not really have anything to do with today's topic and each representative is obliged to stick to this particular topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75939	I thank my colleague Ostojić, I have already pointed out and asked my colleague before, so I don't think there was any need for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but here is another violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75940	Well, people need a security check, and whoever's doing the background check than the police department, who else, that's the last stop. No one will convince me why people can wait three years for citizenship and where does that stop?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75941	My colleague Glasnović, I would like to ask you nicely when your future announcement and the emphasis on the violation of the Rules of Procedure is being made, I would ask you to at first declare which article has been injured and that you do not abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. And I don't think the Rules of Procedure was hurt. And once again I ask you and all MPs and MPs to stick to the subject prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We move on to the next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Celić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75942	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you mentioned in the broad introduction the issue of drug crime in total, so the proportion of drug crime is almost 5% of the total crime and in the five-year period it is seen that drug crime is constantly increasing. So this is related to Articles 190 and 191. Criminal law, unauthorized production and drug trafficking. When it comes to drug crime, it is always very important to point out, therefore, that an international feature is expressed and there is a very important and very successful international police cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and neighbouring countries. In particular, the so - called question is known. The Balkan routes and the same way that it is very commendable in these reports as mentioned in 2015 and 2016, and as regards unauthorized production, therefore related to cannabis products, given the reduced entry in the Republic of Croatia, this unauthorized production has been registered several times in the report and what is worrying, whereas in 2014, there have been 16 stems per person registered for unauthorized production, in 2016 we have as many as 42 stems related to this problem. So, to praise all that the police are doing, you said well that the greatest wealth of police officers and police officers that make this system functional and that the Republic of Croatia is a safe country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75943	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic on the line. We're moving on to the next line. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75944	Thank you, Vice President. So what I'm going to use very briefly is two minutes, just draw attention to some statistical indicators. Of course, the secretary of state mentioned in his opening statement the importance and all that is done with road safety related to prevention and that is absolutely how I think, the way you should focus, especially that department to go more into prevention. What I owe my citizens is related to statistical indicators in 2015 and 2016, where, in 2015, when we talk about total traffic violations, there were almost 94 thousand violations in Osijek-Baranja County of 118 thousand registered vehicles. Now it may not be some data, although if we see that there were 830 thousand all over the Republic of Croatia, according to this report, it's almost every ninth coming from Osijek-Baranja County. But what is symptomatic is that, in the Split-Dalmatia County, 96 thousand violations, therefore, slightly more or almost the same on almost double the vehicles, and there does not enter the number of vehicles and that tourist season and the increase and everything else. When we look at the coastal-goran, let's say for comparison, 65,000... Infringements on 175 thousand vehicles, therefore, to something more or less almost twice as much as double, or almost twice as much of a misdemeanour. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm saying here that one must be in line with the criteria, it may have to be more seen at prevention, and what the Osijek-Baranja Assembly did not accept for 2015 was certainly one of the reasons that in 2016, we had 4148 violations that applied to cyclists, let's say, in 2015. In 1881, a cyclist was punished for his alcoholic condition, while 5 in Split, 7 in Primorje-goranska or 8 in Istria County. So I'm not saying you shouldn't be punished. Of course, safety should be maintained, but I think prevention is primarily a major tool and, of course, a level playing field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75945	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75946	Dear Mr. Katic, I, as an ex-cop, once a cop – always a cop, can speak from another angle, and that is that I have worked with many of my subordinates in the past, among whom I have been law enforcement, so many have also received cancellations because of some of the less honorable, dishonest shops, because of my work or work. I know it's the hardest thing for the police to do when a colleague has to work against his colleague and learn some facts. So there is also a union in the Croatian police that often has to point to irregularities of their managers who are often sanctioned because of their application of these wicked acts. I will point out, since there is no minister who should be there, but there is one ex, that at the time his was full of wicked acts that had never been discovered. The Svastika affair, the disappearance of weapons from the Varazdin police, gold and money from the police safe – a certain Dolački, an affair of professional electronics – Jozo Rakusic. These are all the affairs the police union pointed to, so I'm interested in that part of whether there were any actions, knowledge, repercussion, repression, anything to put an end to it. Because when a criminal is a criminal, you can't expect him to be any better, but a cop when he's a criminal, there's no worse criminal if it's determined. The fact that the police union, which should be composed of the most honorable police officers, suggests certain irregularities, that these findings should be handled at the same time, processed, sanctioned and punished. So, uh... There are a lot of applications, please, in the next report, to be respected as well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75947	Thank you, colleague Culey. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, in your introduction you spoke of a very important segment of police work, which is to protect the state border, i.e. illegal border crossings. In order to carry out this work, it is extremely important, except for the training in the protocols and the material equipment of the police. Unfortunately, the situation in one and the other of our police is bad. I'll tell you what it looks like, say at the Slovenian-Croatian border. While Slovenian colleagues who are also behind the famous wire, are staying in warm containers on the roads that are lit, in vehicles that are equipped enough, in departments that are suitable for weather conditions, our officers seem so in fact that sometimes Slovenian colleagues replace them for refugees. So my question, Mr. Secretary of State, is what does the MUP intend to do on better material equipment, primarily border police officers in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75949	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Matjana. We're moving on to the next line. Dear fellow Young Madyer, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75950	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State in your presentation, I would just like to point out that I believe that perhaps even more cooperation of the ministry with local self-government units should be made so that any greater education not only of this good visit to schools, kindergartens, but I think there should be even greater cooperation with, directly with local self-government units on as much education as possible, that they are not just repressive measures. He also makes it clear that he even pays police officers that they are even bigger, even bigger powers so that their lives are not threatened clearly that I support them. And as for road traffic, here's where I agree with my colleague Curaj. I think that officials of the Ministry of the Interior should, in particular, have the same efficiency in all parts of Croatia, not by the number of vehicles and all that there are almost the same offences in smaller counties as in the counties where there are as many vehicles. And directly here's me from Koprivnica-Crysing County I must also warn of some really illogical fact that, again, it's a matter of speed limit, that you have a road with a speed limit of 40 km to drive, and there's never been an accident in that place. And unfortunately, that's where the police set up the radar and there's a charge problem. I think that the police should have in mind or with road traffic to increase speed, and I clearly appreciate that traffic safety on the road is because we are also aware of how many fatalities there are, but in this way we should agree on the speed of movement on certain shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75951	I'd like to thank my colleague, Madero, for the replica. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Irena Petrijevcani Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75952	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Katic and his associates. I have one concrete remark on both of these reports. Here at the beginning of photos of Mr. Orepic as former minister and he is therefore responsible for these reports, however, he is not even in the assembly. Mr Ostojić clearly shows here that he cares as a former minister of this matter, and that Mr. Orepić obviously doesn't care about the problem of showing up in the assembly, but that's not your problem. My concrete observation concerns a chapter dealing with high-tech crime, so-called "technological crime". Cyber security. In one and the other report, there is a strong hoot and, in my personal opinion, insufficiently mentioning activities for two important things. Here's an example. For the dark web market and on the line of illegal purchase literally one single sentence reads: "And there is also an increase in the dark web market for the purchase of illegal products." For another very important topic, including sexual abuse and exploitation of children via the Internet, one single sentence reads in 2016: “The Department of High Technological Crime also dealt with the issue of sexual abuse and child exploitation. ” It's literally one sentence. And what do we see from that? And in 2015, there's not even one single sentence. And what can we conclude from this? As he dealt with, what activities did that department take, data, statistics, nothing. In my view, objectively speaking, it is not enough because it is shown in the least that this problem is not important to each other. And it's very important, and I think we should take care of it in the next report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75953	I thank my esteemed colleague Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, a respected colleague, Prof. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Police Act, Article 4 of the Home Affairs Minister submitted a report on police work, which is in some way an anomaly because the authorities are actually managed by the Chief Director of Police and it would be logical for the report to be submitted by the Chief Director of Police. We have been warning of this for many years, and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has also asked for the amendment of this Article. The law on police so that people who run the police and on the other hand would actually sit here to separate these competences and responsibilities and in a political sense. And on the other hand, I think that this request should happen again, that is to ask for changes. This report, as already said, offers a number of statistical data, and this report can give one overall picture of safety in Croatia, so I would like to remind myself of some of these items in this report which clearly does not reduce all those criticisms or remarks on individual cases. The fact that in order to obtain this insight and assessment of the total effort made by the police, the fact is that 20 000 and 433 police officers worked at the end of 2016. Almost 18% of women were there, but it is then placed immediately in these discussions from this data that about 400 employees leave the police annually for retirement, cancellation or employment termination agreements. It is not mentioned, however, in the report, how many people have met the requirements for retirement, and how many, on the other hand, but the number again raises the question of the agenda whether it is necessary to restart the Central Police School in view of the number of annual employees the police should receive. On the other hand, there were not too many words in these reports, and it should have been about the material status of police officers. In 2015, the basic salary amounted to 3.5,000 kuna, which by all standards is too little for such work. Although the situation has not changed this year, the basis has been raised to 5,000 kuna, but since we are talking about reports for these two previous years, this should be particularly stressed. And in addition to this materially unsatisfactory status, there is another dimension that is repeated and particularly to be taken into account, which concerns this particular home, which is a matter of criminal legal protection of police officers. Do we know that they are in such a situation that they are exposed to these attacks, to threats, to their physical existence, and therefore should be dealt with by law in another way. We can see from the media that the police, police and police officers are exposed to other problems, as far as we can see from this report, and that's not enough vehicles, uniforms, etc., and he wouldn't talk too much about it right now. Reports are structured so that there are main strategic objectives, to reduce dangers, to prevent crime, to ensure road safety and to strengthen safety at the state border, these are the four corners by which the report is structured for both 2015 and 2016. Preventive action are listed main projects, Mr. Katic specifically spoke about it, especially stressed Healthy for 5 lives, Live a life without violence, I have a choice, Respect our signs, Less weapons, less tragedy, Peace and Good etc. The dimensions of this activity of these violations committed against public order and peace are over 91 thousand in 2016 or over 85 thousand crimes. What's the data, that's that it's been resolved by criminal research the police have managed to solve 61% of the crimes. This information should be combined with this on the success of other police and at least in the EU so that we can give an accurate assessment of our police work. What's particularly the same, we have over 18.5 thousand public gatherings, but it's all at 72 public gatherings that have caused riots. It is particularly important to say that no significant incident on Croatia's security has been reported since 12 million foreign tourists in 2015. This dimension of police work is among other things to protect over 3300km of Croatian borders, that more than 163 million travellers entered Croatia, of which most from the EU 46%, 24% from third countries and 30% of Croatian citizens. In particular, the problem was highlighted in 2015, 2016, that there were over 658 thousand migrants and that the problem was successfully managed by the police. Clearly, this highlights the issue of Croatia's entry into the Schengen area, but this is not only a police issue but also a number of other state bodies, the authorities of the state administration that have to deal with it. However, what I would like to use and emphasize here at this time, it is that unlike most of these statistics that have been given in the range of five years, a single table that gives a range of dead people in traffic since the 1960s is particularly isolated. the year until 2015. And it shows that it's been in this range since the '60s. by 2015, the death suffered in traffic of 49,252 persons. If we're looking at the age of 80. 1603 people died in '90. 1360 people, in 2000, 665 people died in 2010 426 people, 2016. 307 people. In other words, in this range from decade to decade, the number of people killed in traffic is constantly decreasing, road safety is increasing despite the traffic of the number of cars, etc. It's getting bigger. Therefore, the reasons and analyses of why this is happening this way are different. On the other hand, I think it should be recommended that statistics for criminal acts are shown for longer statistical periods, but not just for the last 5 years just to get one objective picture of the security and state of the entire state, not just the police, the state of the police. Perhaps just a few examples. When it comes to suicides, we take one beauty of those years in which it happens, 1050 suicides were committed in 1975. That number oscillates so it's '87. and '92. was equal to the number of suicides 1153, however, it decreased in '95. It was 930 that after 2000, this number of suicides would constantly fall, so the 2015 data is 739 suicide cases. When it comes to killings, the data that can be obtained from statistical examinations, we must also take care of it, so that we do not in any way succumb to the media image that is being created. There were 209 murders in 1979. 1989 155, 2006. 68, and 2015 33 murders. So these are ratios in this time range of 1:6. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to pull out any rape data here, given that I should see whether or not, and I think those data are falling by some other choices, but I don't have the exact data, so I'm not using them here. So, I would suggest that, on behalf of the club, on my own personal name, these statistics are given in a wider period of time, to get up to one objective, one objective picture and simply the safety of society and, in some ways, we can measure the success of both the police and other institutions, which are responsible for that security. What is actually missing, and already through some issues has been raised, there are no data or methodologies or standards for new forms of criminality from SIBER crime abuse, different types of abuse over the Internet, on the other hand there are no data on this equipment and the means available to Croatian politics to face such forms of crime. Obviously there's something, but not enough. Also, we are often in the newspapers or in the media, we are exposed to this information that alcohol is one of the main culprits of the car accidents that are happening, but objectively if I am not mistaken, alcohol is somewhere around 14%, I think, cause, or drunkenness, the cause of these accidents that are happening, but there is no methodology, nor data, as far as these offences are being committed under the influence of intoxicating drugs, or whether such tests are being conducted, or whether such records are being conducted. Therefore, these new forms and methods should be something that the police should entertain, on the one hand, propose a methodology, methods and then include in their reports. The HDZ Club will support these reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75955	I thank my esteemed colleague Professor Miroslav Tudjman for this debate. We move to the next debate on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75956	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, respected colleagues and colleagues. As regards the report by the Minister of the Interior for 2015/2016 I would like to point out that I believe that the reports are written extensively and give a good cut to police action. I also hold that it is important that the reports stress that police act not only repressively, but also act preventively, and that the main strategic objectives, reduce the risk of criminal behaviour, curb criminality, increase road safety and strengthen security at the state border. In line with these objectives, I would like to commend all police officers and ministers for having professionally and above all humanely approached the challenge set before them by the migrant crisis at the end of 2015 and early 2016. Crossing immigrants across the territory of the Republic of Croatia required a large level of organisation, where Croatian police showed readiness to adapt quickly and adopt new labour principles. About the tourist season during 2015/2016 I would like to point out that according to the State Statistics Institute, more than 26 million arrivals by foreign tourists have been reported in Croatia in the past 2 years without any serious incident being recorded. I will remind you that tourism has a minimum 18% stake in Croatia's total GDP and what is particularly important today in choosing a tourist destination, it is certainly security, and thanks to the large part of Croatia's activities, Croatia has successfully positioned itself as a safe tourist destination, and this has all been achieved with a significant lack of employees, which according to systematization is missing. It is particularly important to take care of security in the future, primarily of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but also of tourists, and to respect all specificities of certain areas, such as large tourist centres, islands, areas along the state border and that the action and number of police officers be in line with these specificities. And from the angle of watching our club, the announced territorial reorganisation of the MUP in 2016 did not take into account exactly these specificities. According to the reorganisation proposal, which was current in 2016 in Croatia, only 5 police administrations should remain, and without respecting the specificities of certain areas, such as the level of economic activity, the total turnover of goods and services, the number of people crossing the borders in that area, a drastic increase in the number of people staying in the area during the tourist season, as well as a significant increase in events and events during the tourist season. I add to this the fact that when the decision-making centre is moving away from the scene, then the efficiency of action and action is diminished, I have talked about it on behalf of the club in the past 2 years, I repeat this today, because I expect that some future reorganisation of these specificities will be taken into account. Therefore, I appreciate the good and the wise that the current minister did not go with this kind of reorganisation. At the very end, I point out that police officers firstly need to get their dignity back, both through material working conditions and through the reputation of the police service in society. I believe that we will all agree that police officers are the mirror of the state, and that is especially true of our country, where tourism is strongly developed and that millions of foreign guests visit each year. And lastly, and most importantly from the point of view of our club, is that the security system of the Republic of Croatia needs to be depoliticalized. Depolitisation of police is necessary to ensure the impartial, professional conduct of police officers, when performing police affairs and powers and depolitisation itself, we change and move standards to better, so that it is necessary if we want to make a step as a society. Our club wants to support these reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75957	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi, for this debate, for the next debate on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75958	The esteemed vice president, respected colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, respected state secretary with associates, I will repeat it once more, and that would be my turn to have the minister here today and I think it is in some way, when we look at the thematic session, which he was also not, very important, points to his relationship with the Parliament. At least once a year, as prescribed by law, and it is very rare that the laws say that the minister must submit a report at least once a year, on police affairs, would be the turn to be there. However, at the previous thematic session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I asked the question, if I did not understand, today 2018 we must ask, pray, to finally turn to order, and to see reports from 2015, 2016, so we could say 2017. And I'm sorry the minister isn't here, because he's in the debate right now, while the MP insisted on speed, which is why the reports aren't earlier on the agenda. In particular, we had a report back then in the 6th month. and he thought it should be much earlier on Parliament's agenda, so you can follow it neatly. I would also remind myself that even the State's Attorney's reports, in this House we can't hear or see, and I think that, well, come on, at least this is saved, which is that these two can talk here in the assembly, if it's in the next few weeks, the Rules of Procedure will probably happen that it will go to committees, and there will be no more opportunities, so that it can be discussed in public. I mean, the issue of security is very important in every Parliament, with us obviously the smallest. As for the other thing, I still have to express my condolences from this position of the SDP Club to the late General Stipetic from this pay phone, and I think he deserves it, and in any case, I want to send him a message. What is also important to me for the safety itself, should be said in what circumstances the 2015 report was then for 2016 I will focus more on 2015 because Croatia in 2015 and according to the data provided in this report was a safe country. The sense of security among citizens and guests is at a high level, as there was the least theft, robbery, stolen cars in any year that would compare. There have never been fewer murders in Croatia, and the prevention of corruption regardless of the organised crime as well as the drug scene has been reported through an increase in reports and quantities seized. Just a moment ago, it was mentioned, and it's a positive trend, which is more seized, as more criminal charges in the area of drug crime talk about police activity, because it's entering a dark area of crime and we need to be interested in making that number bigger and not smaller. We resisted then terrorist threats, human smuggling, which at that moment before the arrival of the migrant crisis was reduced by 70% compared to 10 years. In the very migration wave, I think I can say, perhaps just a few sentences, but in my report all in detail the four migrants were given for a minute, 250 per hour, 6 000 a day, it lasted 5 months, and that is the fact that in the end only for 2015 over 500,000 people passed through Croatia without actually having any incident. It should be said that the implementation of the Schengen accession already started that year, the evaluation that started directly, meaning in 2015, 2016, transit centres were built for the reception of foreigners in Tovarnik and Trilj, the fire was less than the previous years as well as the damage caused by the fires, the stop control with Slovenia and Hungary was then working, there was no traffic at the border crossings, we had 145 million passengers per year, the safe tourist season was not only a project but a reality for more than 12 million tourists, in transport it should be said there was a record of what was said earlier, there were indeed 348 deaths in traffic which the growth was compared to 307 2014 but one reference number is very important and this is 426 deaths in 2010. According to the guidelines that we have accepted in the EU, our obligation and according to the strategic plan, which is that the figure is half of the number 426, means 213 fatalities by 2020 on Croatian roads, this should be our goal, unfortunately there will probably be nothing but the next one, that we need to continue to work on reducing that number, just look at the figures we had before. Professor Tudjman mentioned well, in fact that it's good to have reference periods longer than 10 years, here's just look at that in 2015, in 2000 there were 101 murders, and in 2015 in 33, it's the smallest number of murders that ever occurred in the history of the Republic of Croatia. At public gatherings that were around 19 000, there were no fatalities, e-police was then put into operation, 5 new operational and communication centres were opened in Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and Pula, it was created for the first time in history, the Croatian Crisis Room for the Management of any crisis situation and despite the rationalisation of costs were placed in the function of police station in Kaštel, Samobor, Imotski, Belista, Otoc, Rovinj,... River... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Slunj, Police Centre. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2013, for the first time, the Croatian police received command headquarters vehicles that were fully operational and after 30 years, new helicopters were first purchased to save human lives. The Schengen Fund later acquired two of the most modern and recent helicopters, which can still be absolutely supported and controlled by the border, the fleet completed up to 51 vessels in 2015, cameras and radar covering the entire Croatian coast. An e-ID card, a new passport, mobile counters, and what I'm trying to say is a renovated reception centres that were already in function in Kutina, Dugava, according to the highest standards of international protection. What was true, which was that half a billion kuna was spent, specifically over a period of 4 years before that, and the results were more high-quality. Continuing paces and trends, etc. He's always tied to what's just been mentioned. I wouldn't mention depolitisation anymore, because I thought it was settled. As I recall, in 2011, the statements were that the police were depolitized and that all those employed in it, without any problem could not be in any political party and give that thing clean. The public tender is, and today, employees who are in the leading jobs are selected and in particular in 2012 or 2015, no one could have been in the leading position because of what should have been at least 10 years in police management positions, which means that it was much longer to be in the police to be able to do the job. Therefore, all those stories about who runs the Croatian police, certainly none, no one who was employed in the time or after 2000. So much for that information. As far as I'm concerned, another very important piece of information in this together, which is the issue of the national road safety programme, one of the reasons that is happening to us, is that there is a growing number of not only fatalities but the number of accidents and everything we read, it must not happen and I think it is very important, then the funds have been spent precisely for road safety and not for other purposes, and it is very effective for municipalities and cities that suggest where the crisis points are, where the sred points and these coins should be spent precisely for such things. I'll just say that the reserve police issue has not been used, it's true that 1/3 of the composition, it means exactly 7,000 and some people can be in reserve for 3 months, it would be ideal people because of what they might be able to do in border surveillance but also during the summer season through 3 months with much less resources than it is costing for a regular policeman to provide, do the part of the jobs that don't pay off in fact that I'm going to say now, a cop who's educated for all the use of police authority, there can be used absolutely that part of the people who could help at these times especially in areas that have a problematic situation and that's that they don't have enough cops during the season, especially this applies to Dubrovnik-Neretva County. What I can read every day, which is already a slow habit of bombs, arson, rifles, etc. everything else that's going on. I don't think that's the kind of thing we can possibly accept to be a normal situation. On one occasion, I was in a situation where Interpol's secretary-general visited the Republic of Croatia and said he thought the country was safe. I'm saying, on what basis did you conclude? So he says, I notice right here while I'm walking around and I see people turning around when they see a siren, to actually see a police car or an ambulance. It is a sign that they feel safe and surprised when such a siren appears, because the moment they no longer turn their heads and see the conduct of possibly police or emergency services, it is the moment they are used to it and that it is reality and reality. Anyway, I want all the cops and cops to do their job responsibly, to have as high-quality and as good a condition as possible in the equipment and everything else. What's also important, one Norway with 4.5 million inhabitants has 8400 police officers, the Republic of Croatia with no idea what number you could say, and that's a maximum of around 4 million people, there are over 20,000 police officers. So much for that data or we can't or can't, the question is, what do we have to waste our energy on? And for the end, even this minute that I have, I have to remind myself, which is that entering Schengen is a strategic priority that we all agreed on and what's very important to me is that we need to be transparent and clear about where we've come from, where the Republic of Croatia has come to that end, and that means that something like that can happen. Whether the technical capacities and the conditions are met, I hope they are, in 2015 the story was completed with 91% of the contracted funds, as far as I know in 2016 5% of the rest was spent and relatively almost to the end, actually spent funds from the Schengen Facilitity Fund 121 million euros we had. They are now fully operational and the Republic of Croatia certainly has quality equipment that was obtained at the time. On the side of the SDP Club, we will support these Home Secretary reports for 2015 and 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75959	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ranka Ostojić. We have a few replicas. First replica, dear colleague Steve Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75960	Dear Vice President, says counterpart Ostojic that in 2015 she was a safe country. Croatia was a safe country in 2015. And I'll read something about 2015. I don't know which time in this House I read it. He says that several pieces of weapons, perhaps a hundred, are likely to have disappeared from the Varazdin police warehouse and ended up in an illegal arms smuggler's market towards Western Europe. But it's still not clear when exactly and how it happened, and who's responsible for it even though criminal research takes more than a year. Furthermore, Goran Zmuk, deputy president of the National Police Union and the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Croatia, who is incomprehensible that he is not reacting spotlessly and still has no results of the investigation, although without weapons, there is no police warehouse left. A police warehouse in a tourist country robbed by hundreds of weapons, explosives, guns with silencers. Imagine a tourist country, one Dubrovnik. A firecracker blows up at noon, there's no one on Stradun, they'd all run into the sea. Imagine one silencer that can do on Stradun in the night, just one shot. And that's a safe country in 2015. Where did that weapon end? Where did it come from? With what purpose, with what purpose? Is that weapon used somewhere, where's the investigation? Is there any result in this safe country through which thousands and thousands of migrants have been panicking? Welcome! Is that a safe country? At a time when I was working with the police, and I was also working on hostage situations where I was training, and I know well what a terrorist can do to a tourist country. What a man with one Kalashnikov can do in a large group of people, which we have witnessed... [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75961	Comrade Culley, I thank you for the replica. Answer, colleague Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75962	Dear colleague Culey, of course, that the police business of unfinished criminal research will not be spoken of by me, probably not by the representatives of the MUP. Surely, this procedure has never been completed, but to bring down the situation so that this variant, a terrorist threat, has proved in any event that no such act took place in 2015. It didn't happen in 2016, it didn't happen in 2017, and I deeply believe that the Croatian police will, with all their efforts, prevent not only those of them, but all others who would possibly be in possession of weapons. Otherwise, I would remind you that during the period until 2000 17 of the world's most famous assassinations were carried out with weapons from the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to name them for you now, who, etc. We've read all about it, but we won't take that kind of guilt on ourselves. What's important to me too, there's no need and one case if it's done, let's wait till the end and then we'll see who's really to blame. That's very important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75963	I thank my colleague I'll stay for the answer. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75964	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear colleague Ostojić, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's what I'd like to do about Mr. Ostojic's remarks about why there's no Home Secretary on this report. I know that as a minister, you have reported regularly to this House. But I also know that during the term of office of your government, in particular in 2010 when you took over, the report was not even held in this House, so it was not even submitted, it was skipped. Which is why we don't know. However, on the Committee on National Security on several occasions, we discussed here and during the debate on reports coming from the Ministry of Interior in general the need to report on one such report on the conduct of police affairs by the Minister of the Interior. We know what it's all about, that it's the Police Directorate's report, so with a number of statistics, police work, cops, condition, problems, etc. but not on the state of affairs of the Ministry of the Interior, and therefore I believe that the Minister of the Interior should not submit a report, especially since it is 2015, so here is the time when the current minister was neither Minister nor Minister. And I really don't see the purpose of meeting the form of the interior minister looking back and reporting on police work. Therefore, I think that we should change in our regulations that this should be the report of the Police Administration and that as such we should adopt it, and I also agree that here I see in the past that there have been gaps and even the leaps of years in this reporting that there is no point after this long to discuss. If we are discussing it, maybe we should also combine comparative data on the state in certain periods in the police, and I think that as Parliamentarians, we could get more useful information that could be useful to us further... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75965	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Skoric. Reply from fellow Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75966	Dear colleague Škorić, the 2010 report you are right is not really discussed, although it is not clear to me that you are HDZ I will only remind you that you were in power throughout 2011. You had quite a chance to put that report on the agenda. What were the reasons you didn't make it? Secondly, I insisted that the minister be there because it is a sad fact and I keep warning her, which is that I have been defending reports here four times in this assembly, including Minister Karamark for 2011, and I thought it was my obligation because it is a situation, that it is not a private front of Karamark, or Orepic, or Ostojic, or anyone, but a police work report. And it is the minister who comes to Parliament to say what happened and what was done together. I think that's the way it should be seen, because of all the ministers, 8 of them are safe from the period of adoption of the Police Act when it is prescribed to be in Article 4 that they must submit a report. Unfortunately, the only one who's ever stopped here for a pay phone and defended the report four times. For 2011, 12th, 13th and fourteenth. I'm here today to talk about the 15th, and that's something I think the minister should be there for. We agreed on the board that it was better to do so by the Chief Director of Police and that it would be much smarter, but it should change the law by me in that segment. We delivered it, and when the changes are made, we'll probably do it. Until then, what the minister writes there comes and says.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75967	Thank you. I thank my colleague Ostojić. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75968	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Ostojić, I have two questions for you. A little, little bit in public because someone meets me either in stories or I read, please, you were Minister of the Interior so confirm or deny is it true that Croatia now has more members of the MUP than it is, while the Republic was in the former Yugoslavia? And can you compare the efficiency of today's system in relation to the needs and the detachments that are. And the second question is, I have a feeling that the system has fallen asleep because Turkey is in agreement with the EU, so it has stopped our solutions temporarily for possible migrants. Is there a scenario B if, for example, in a month or two, the rivers of people move again like we saw in that one film at ZagrebDox. How do you assess a possible situation? Is that what this is about? So that's the scenario, or not enough work? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75969	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. Reply from fellow Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75970	My colleague Lovrinović, you're right. There are three times as many police officers today as there were at a time when Croatia was part of one community, but let's not observe it that way. It is important for me to say, and that is that over 6000 Croatian police officers are aimed at the border and work as border police officers in a situation where it would be singled out, then the figure would be much smaller according to the number of residents. So that's one piece of information. The second is in case there's a new migrant wave, it's not mine to answer. But I am sure that Croatia needs to seriously consider this, because we could have serious problems. When it was 2015 it was the fact that we went through Croatia in different ways and support, etc. Now there's no way that anyone could go in such a wave to other countries, and unfortunately they're still treating us like the countries of the first entry, which is very dangerous. That's something to be fought for, because the fact is next. These people didn't fall with a parachute, they came either from Greece or from Bulgaria. Therefore, these are the countries of the first entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75971	I thank my esteemed colleague, I will remain for the answer. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75972	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I must say, I think that actually the debate on this subject is much more important than it would be to conclude by the number of us who are here and by the fact that there is no minister. I didn't particularly want to talk about it because it's always considered a kind of party bickering, but if we understand the reports, and I think we should understand them as one side of the analysis of what happened, but I would say maybe an even more important part is that these reports plan what is going to be done in the future or how they will react in certain situations they might face or that it is certain that we will face them. So the police are with the military and the judiciary one of three forms of state monopoly on violence. Instead, the idea that everyone takes justice as stated in their own hands or revenge as the principle of the functioning of one society and the war against all and that instead institutionalise a kind of state monopoly on violence is based on a modern state, so there is no state at all, and from that point of view, police are also the most common form of institutional monopoly on violence with which citizens in one country meet and communicate with each other. And from that position is the material state of police officers, in other words wages are security, I would say safety category, so they are not some kind of social or economic category only but are an absolute security category and instrument of prevention of corruption because it is in the logic of things that people who have that kind of function by their own purpose, according to the institution they belong to, have that power and the possibility of intervention as a residual and parliamentary representatives of another institution, judges etc. It's very dangerous to keep them on a beggar stick. So it's not only unfair and socially unfair but it's also dangerous for the system to function. And I think that from that perspective, we should also analyse the material position of police officers and police officers and understand that as well as one security measure. So these people must be properly paid and have potentially too much power to expose them to a situation where different pressures are always present. In addition, at this point, they are faced with some new challenges or at least a new definition of police tasks, and from this perspective, I think it would be important to see what education is available to them and to what extent they have access to some modern and knowledge and instruments of the fight against the type of crime or type of task they face as police officers and police officers. I would mention here three elements or three types of intervention or three areas of intervention that seem crucial to me, and in which I would say it anyway in the last few years, not a long period of time, there have been significant changes both in the dimensions of the threat and in the instruments of response and the need for the police to respond to that threat. One is domestic violence, the other is a refugee crisis, which I don't think we can absolutely assume was once and never again, and the third is cyber crime or one kind of crime that proved politically in such dimensions that we couldn't even dream of a year ago. And it seems like a special investigator... unequivocally found that there was cyber intervention of Russia in the American elections, something that was unimaginable ever before. If possible there, you can imagine what is possible in a country like Croatia in this respect. So let me say a few sentences from each of these areas of police action, some of which are new, some are old, but they require a different, more modern, more recent approach. The violence in the family is so old that I don't say the ancient area because it's probably as old as humanity, but it requires a different approach. We are witnessing the fact that the number of murders of women by spouses of marriages or extramarital growth, beatings, rapes of mental and economic violence are today considered an integral part of domestic violence. You know that for a very long time the Croatian legal heritage was such that domestic violence was considered a disturbance of public order and peace and very often brought in both those who beat and those who were beaten, so to speak, since it was done approximately 95:5, so 95% of the victims of domestic violence are women compared to 5% of the men in harsh. So this is one area where we have to and legally say modernize and equip, we have to equip the Croatian judiciary, but we absolutely have to equip the specialized segments in the police because in the 21st century we suffer such an increase in domestic violence that ends in the killings in situations where the whole relationship and the history of this relationship is known, and yet it has not intervened in an adequate manner and ends in all the killings of women, and I think it is absolutely unacceptable and that it is one area in which the police must be modernised and adapted to the contemporary understanding of the role of men and women in any kind of family community. And here I don't think we're modernized, and here I think we have a big space for action. The second point is to treat refugees. During these six months from 16.9.2015 to early 2016, something about 658,000 I think refugees are going through, and I am stressing in a huge percentage of really refugees. So it's not the migrants, it's the refugees. At the end of the wave and during 2016, the number of what could be called migrants, although there were large debates, the percentage increased, but in those first 4.5 months, the huge percentage of these people, and you can see from the countries they came from, were primarily Syria and Iraq refugees. Croatia can also be proud of the way these people were treated. These people were quite clear none of them wanted to stay in Croatia, practically all wanted nowhere else, so practically everyone wanted to go to Germany and most of them ended up in Germany plus something in Sweden and I think about 90,000 in Austria. However, Croatia was partly driven by the EU's unwillingness to prevent the situation and when it came to react to the situation. The unwillingness to prevent was in negotiations or the absence of an agreement between the EU and Turkey. No one who passed the refugee wave came directly from those countries but came, spent some time between months, some and a series of months in Turkey. Turkey has made it very clear what order of aid it is and which it expects from the EU, however, has been delayed and at one point Turkey reacted as it reacted. Hungary could happen to us because it should be borne in mind that reacting to such a situation is not only a matter of taking care of or simply dealing with this problem but rather a question of defining the identity of our own society, who we are. And in this situation, we are like a country and as a nation, a decent country and a decent nation does not matter, without hysteria, without wire and barbed wire at the borders, and I think we should firstly thank and honor the Croatian police. I had a lot of communication with the leading police at the time, and it was clear that they did the job first-class. Why am I saying that? Because it is important to highlight the report for 2015 and, of course, the beginning of 2016, but also because it is an important lesson, so if you want an important section of time that is ahead of us because we cannot assume that such a situation will not happen the other way around. We have to hope it won't come, but act as if there's a great possibility of getting to it. And we can't, there's already been some indication of catastrophic behavior and relationships, including the death of that little Afghan to these people, and that's something we need to get out of the regiment and avoid at all costs. And finally, in less than a minute, a big new topic, which is cyber crime. It's something in which it's not just threatened security, economics, political decisions, something that I'm thinking about right now, except for some Estonians, no one in the world is fully prepared. And I think that when we plan, we learn lessons and plan for the future, it's one topic where the police need all the support and financial resources to be equipped and educated in this area. The GLAS and HSU club will support these reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75973	I thank my dear colleague, Vesni Pusic. We have one replica. Dear colleague Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75974	Your Honor, Vice President. Political hypocrisy in the 21st century has no end and no standards. We witnessed a recent visit by representatives to us once, and many today, strange states, hostile, who in their desire for foreign territory, power, caused thousands and thousands of lives, youth, cities, villages, and I am particularly surprised to see politicians who one day have one opinion and the other. We live in the 21st century, and when we return to the 20th or 19th and talk about some refugees from today's perspective, where we all mourn these refugees, we welcome them, which is very good and positive of us, we feel for them, we help them, then we say: we are human. And when we talk about some refugees from the past who, for the same or similar reasons, fled before death, we call them that, they are guilty, but they are not meant to be. And that's what a politician, a politician, a 21st-century humanist, is talking about with different criteria. One criterion is for the 18th or 19th centuries, but we are now in the 21st century and God forbid someone commits a crime against us because of something in the past. We need to protect ourselves actively. In these words a well-known man from Croatian history, he would not be ashamed of the Grg either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75975	I thank my colleague Cule. Answer, colleague Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75976	So I didn't quite understand the unconnected exposure, and I don't know what refugees you're talking about in the 18th and 19th centuries. As far as refugees in the 21st century, which I was talking about, my position was clear, and it was always the same. As for refugees of any age in the 20th century, my position is absolutely the same and identical, and as far as people in any century, including 21st and among people who are in this case refugees from the Middle East, everyone who is in any way a suspect or there is a reasonable doubt that war criminals should also be prosecuted and punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75977	I thank my esteemed colleague Vesni Pusic for his reply. Before continuing the debate, I welcome respected students and students and their professors and professors and technical school Nikola Tesla from Zagreb. Welcome. Give it up! We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75978	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here today are the subject of these two fat reports and says there is no evaluation without a comparison. So when we compete in 2015 and 2016 and read in detail, then we don't see any big differences between 2015 and 2016, but if we compare 2015 and 2018, or where we are now, then there are some differences. So I would say there were no significant shifts in the mandate of the previous Ministry of Interior. First, because it was a short term, and secondly, it is visible on the basis of these reports. We're talking about three categories. On the infrastructure area, on the technical area and on the management of human potential. And on the other hand, if we compete with today's situation, then we should point out something where we are now, and if we are moving from human potential, so we have to stress without any doubt, and several times here it's said that human potentials are quality police officers and police officers alone, the meaning of actually in the field and what was a big problem, and so far it's not solved, and it's been resolved now in the term of the HDZ Minister and this government, that's that chronic bribery of police officers, and we can say without hesitation that police officers are among the related services, so we're talking about the state service, they were the least paid for example, in relation to the judicial officers and I'm glad that it's finally settled because they've waited quite long to get rid of it. So 7655 of the lowest-paid police officers, so those with the Soviets will now receive higher salaries, and this government has therefore singled out 41 million kuna in 2018. That's the first one. And I compose that against these reports. And secondly, what was also to be solved, and this is the solution to those abolished rights of high and higher-level police officers, and it also needs extra money, the same thing here was the problem, it was 17 million kuna, it also started solving that problem. And what is most important is that it was not taken away to give, but by internal redistribution it will be given to everyone as much as it can be given, or no one will be denied. And now we're going to go on with the report, the MUP last year, so at the time of our term of office, and yet I'm compatriating from these reports, for the first time since the previous years, has obtained a whole new equipment for police officers and police administrations. And when we talk about regular cops, the ones who are on the ground, and I have those in my family, then it was really sad to look at what these uniforms look like, it's like my personal impression of putting a torn Croatian flag on an institution. And now there are contracts for new uniforms, so jackets, pants, shirts, hats, shoes, socks, etc., someone will now say that I am doing a PR to an existing minister or to this government, not only do I compose these reports with the present state to be able to evaluate these reports in a high-quality way because we simply can't, both colleagues Tudjman and previous speakers have said that it is necessary to completely compromise. So here we go. What is particularly important to say in this term is that it is all obtained from Croatian producers and, of course, it is also an incentive to the Croatian economy, but also to these officers and these ordinary officials, so if we are going to end up with all of us and it is all settled so that they will be supplied by 2020. Not to forget for special and intervention police units, the contract was also signed, also with the Croatian company and yet it was not in previous reports, at least I didn't see it, which means there was no purchase of 1,000 rifles of Croatian production, which means that the old and worn out guns are being replaced, not that nothing is being done. In the report, we also see what happened. Non-functional i.e. The stagnation in the reconstruction of the criminal police and, as of the first day of this year, the regulation and that has been resolved, and now that I am not too much longer, means the cybersecurity service, what is very important has been resolved at national level as separate because of a better and more effective fight against Internet and other threats and just before in the replica of State Secretary Katic, I have just said that it is insufficient in these previous reports in fact that the entire cyber criminal space covers literally three, four sentences. And what is important is also to point out that by May of this year, at the latest, an independent department will be established to deal with air passengers, which is also our obligation to that European directive, and it was recently here in the plenary debate and, of course, again without spending any additional resources, because existing officials, employees, will be redistributed according to their knowledge. It is also mentioned in the 2016 report that it was the first evaluation by Schengen and since then again if we compose the report for 2015 and 2016 with today's situation, we see that much has been done again in this term. Croatia first joined the so-called The Schengen Information System last year in June. And in just half a year, according to information, more than 8,000 wanted persons, vehicles and objects have been found, which by statistics is far more than the European average and during the first month since we connected to this system there have been more than 74 million checks in this system. And so we see it's done. Otherwise, the implementation of this Schengen system is a project that is actually worth nearly 5m euros, and these funds will be withdrawn from European funds, or one smaller part, from the state budget. And given the time, I will only mention it because it is important from these reports that in the last 3 months, co-financing from European funds has been resolved what was not also before, which is that two centres have been put into operation, the accommodation training centre of the border police in Spačva, the Vukovar-Srijem County, and also that problematic Cetingrad station in Karlovac County at the border with BiH. So, we will enter Schengen by the end of this European Commission's announcements in 2019, which means that at least twice as effective, we will work more effectively now and we are doing it, than these two previous reports were, and that is why we have to point out these things, these facts, because if we talk about the work of the MUP then we are talking specifically and responsibly, so we are comparing the data, not only back 2 years and now, but back 5 and more, which is desirable and we will see the report for next year and then we will be able to compare that report with this year's and then we will get only valid evaluations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75979	I thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic. We have two replicas, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75980	Dear colleagues, I would first of all say that we should really talk about facts. Two years after joining the EU, an application for entry and accession can be submitted, this has been made, the evaluation follows and it is precisely in the mandate of the HDZ authorities that it has not passed through the evaluation. I'm not going to talk about the details because the government protected it with a code of secrecy, even though you're talking about a topic that isn't today, no matter what it is, it's good to compromise it. Secondly, the Schengen Information System also, just take a look at it and you may see this very person opening this story about the Schengen Information System, negotiating, putting into effect because our obligation was to act on all Schengen obligations from the moment we entered the EU and that is what the fact is. I also asked Minister Bozinovic where Croatian police had dressed so far. And that dust in the eyes that is being thrown in some way about that now suddenly being bought from Croatian companies my question is very simple where they've been dressed so far. And let's not cover up the other thing, which is that some other deadlines have been missed and people have run out of winter uniforms and without the equipment they were supposed to have at the time when they were supposed to order it. I also want to mention to you about 41 million kuna salaries, etc., a little less for those who are in the middle layer let's say the police officers are high only three holidays in the sixth month, so specifically in overtime costs the Ministry of Interior 50 million kuna. Therefore, it is necessary to be realistic and to say that under the given conditions it is very important to look at how much pay is spent, how much money is spent on police equipment, etc. Now that you mention it...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75981	I thank my colleague Ostojić Reply Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please. [[Intruding Ostojić: All right, I'll do it later.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75982	Dear colleague Ostojić, I do not know what was not concrete in my debate and why you felt called. I think that here, in fact, a colleague, Vlaho Orepic, would at least be in the position of a parliamentary representative, so to show that he respects the profession and respects the ministry he led for a short time. And besides, he's here to sign these reports. And I stand for the continuity of the M.O.P. service, and you said well, I agree. It is not the MUP or Bozinovic or Ostojić or Orepic. So all I'm saying is that it's data that are facts and there's no cover-up and there's no short-term view of this entire segment. I don't really know why you felt called. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75983	Thank you very much for your answer. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75984	Thank you very much. Comrade Petriyevcan, you have tried to approach this report in a slightly different way. This report is basically a set of statistical indicators that we can't change, it's done. However, what you may be talking about in your debates in the Assembly when we are discussing such reports may be more talkable, not politically arguing about who is where to buy something, which is whether those people who made that report that we made are adequately paid, whether they invest in their education, whether they are investing in technical equipment. Why? Well, because they're facing on the other side with those who are just awfully invested in it. Thus, the area on the other side of the law invests in both education and technical equipment. We cannot expect that if we do not provide them with at least the same education, we can talk about tax collectors and other civil servants who, unfortunately, are very often serving as a prostitute, and it simply cannot be. And I think it's a chance for us as responsible men and parliamentary representatives to discuss these reports to talk about it. Because then we'll prove ourselves responsible. Why? So when the budget comes to the debate, then we will not discuss this budget depending on whether we are in a position or opposition, but responsible for a socially responsible job, because these people care about our daily security provided adequate resources. Why am I saying that? Because when I was Minister of Finance for some services, I was always particularly sensitive and observed differently. You just can't expect results from someone if you don't give them conditions. You can't expect someone to make a hundred-metre world record in military boots. Which is something that's just impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75985	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Answer from a colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75986	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Schuker, you as former finance minister know exactly how important financial resources are for the work of every resolution ministry. So as much money as they have, I can handle it. Someone will do better, someone will have worse, depending on how much his management, organisational, and other abilities are. I had no intention of saying that someone was doing a bad job and that someone was doing very well now. I was just going to say that now some issues have begun to be addressed, such as bribery, sub-optimation, structural issues, etc. Infrastructure issues and these are facts. We just have to agree with that. And I agree with you that the MUP should be subject to consensus and regardless of whether someone is an opposition or the position of the MUP deals with the most diverse issues and areas. And with a certain, each resistor is respectfully important, but the MUP should certainly be a matter of consensus, not never the subject of bickering between the current and the former. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75987	I thank you for your response to the esteemed colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75988	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Reports come, reports vote, leave, ministers come, ministers leave. Some leave behind a beautiful quality trail of work, some leave unhappiness, disorder, and all that goes along with it. I wouldn't be a representative, not an ex-cop if I didn't talk about what bothers an honest Croatian and every cop, and that's when a cop who has to protect the citizens from the lawlessnesss and other unholy acts has to keep an eye on his colleague next to himself whether or not he's his enemy. So we're all watching various American movies where we're looking at accounts between colleagues for the honest eternal struggle of good and evil. And we're always kind of on the good side. I wouldn't be, I said, an MP or an ex-cop without reading what honest police officers think, who were elected to the Croatian police union, so, watch out and risk their progress in the service and the service itself because of what they might find out and know and react to the same negatives, so I'm just going to, I've got a few examples that I've set out to do, so I'll be free to read them to you. At a certain time when the minister comes new as the parties change, he chooses his own top management, right and left hands. He chooses those who carry out what he thinks is good, so often a mistake is stolen when, in that good will to help the citizens, the whole society, and their homeland, he steals to put someone who is the best and most chosen for that service. So we have in 2015, I speak only in 2015 and 2016, under suspicious circumstances in the MUP, the company's professional electronics director Joza Rakusic, companies registered for sale and service of special devices, communications, transmission and fixed connections, transmitters etc. to which she sold goods for 15 million kuna in 2015 alone, and I called Rakusic at the MUP and sold the same goods myself. So I order my own wood, I pay for it myself, but it's not wood. He says this: After a month and a half after Rakusic was admitted to the service with his company, the MUP signed a contract for the purchase of a tetra antenna and material for antenna installations, a coded system of links with VAT amounting to 390987.50 euros, of which the Rakusic company goes to a clean 263990 euro. I'm just practicing the fragments. Jozo Rakusic, as we were told by the MUP, was recently found responsible for serious injuries to his official duties and was fired. The disciplinary procedure was initiated at the request of Minister Ranko Ostojic on 19 November 2015, in order to declare the first-degree disciplinary court of the MUP Rakusic responsible for serious violations of official duties under the Police Act on 29 April 2016. So Rakusic follows his resignation, while those who hired him and who knew who they were hiring at all times, according to everything, nothing will happen. Rakusic, in the case of several million kunas, is unlikely and likely to be the only culprit even though he could not hire himself in the MUP and not be able to give himself and his company input jobs. It's a case of a positive, positive employee who got fired. And now another case, I'm gonna call the bad guy, who later had to prove he was a good guy, and it's about Alan Clubbot. Imagine a special ops team from the Istria mile. There were a lot of special forces, but like Allen Cabot, back in Istria, there weren't many. But this Allen Klabot, an old vet from ATJ Lučko, who has been a instructor for many generations of Croatian police officers, is being fired. For what? Because of the alleged abuse of a car that he went to his daughter's wedding. Imagine the burden of a specialist who spent the entire country's war on the first line, who, besides all the credit he had in the Homeland War, was undercut by the negativity, a few liters of gasoline compared to this positive who is someone's. But this one's nobody's. Why? Because he's allowed himself, and it's possible that he's also away from the service that he welcomed the president of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, while Officer Allen Klabot has been suspended, the official MIP helicopter carries furniture to Dubrovnik. Imagine the flight of a helicopter officer to Dubrovnik to transfer parts of the furniture from Prime Minister Milanovic there. It's the use and abuse of official metal, a screw. To talk more about some loyal, loyal people, and I have to read, there's a lot of it. He says, "Where are the gold and the money that's been estranged from the police safe?" Is the arrest of Dolkoga that strange story over? These are all documents from the daily press, and that's where it stands from the National Police Union of the Ministry of Police of the Republic of Croatia. Gordan Zmuk, a police crime officer of the PU Međimurje and deputy president of the National Police Union of the Ministry of the Republic of Croatia, speaks of the theft of as much as 280 thousand euros and 2kg of gold from the Heinzlov police headquarters, suspected by Zeljko Dolaski, a close associate of former SDP Minister Ranko Ostojic. More specifically, Dolaski is charged with retaining 279500 euros and 2 kg of gold, 599 thousand kuna, then another 40300 kuna, 4360 euros, 100 thousand Swiss francs and 300 yuan. He's got everything. Furthermore, the repression takes place on these police officers of honors, representatives of the MUP union. They say we've had PNUSKOK in the union, after Nikola Kaikic and I passed on the press, and then on the TV show Bujica we talked about crime and illegal actions at the top of the MUP, unfortunately it's now a normal procedure for us when we say something somewhere right now that's right now when we're going to jump in the carburetors. To tell you about the disappearance of weapons from the Varazdin police I talked about it in two minutes and I think I've said enough about the safest year of the Croatian people in 2015. Where else is that weapon? It hasn't been discovered yet, we may find out in some next terrorist action in Europe, but God forbid, not especially in our tourist season. And then comes the affair of all affairs, imagine next to all the technology of the 21st century where we live when you see the pores from the satellite on your skin, imagine. You can see the pores from the satellite, but you can't see the swastika 10x10 or 20x20 meters, correctly drawn. Here he needed a tool, there he needed a chemical, there he needed a cidocor perhaps or needed a Hercules as they were called these funds or a special means, and this was a special tool that, after the use at a certain time, had been activated and appeared in front of the whole world to see Croatian shame, to see 12 June 2015 to see the swastika. The swastika infamous in the history of millions of victims, imagine it took place in Split in Croatia's Split. Who's the one who drew it? But again, newspapers and journalists write, and it's time to read when something is written if you haven't already read it. As a police officer, I have to suspect, it's a police job until they determine the truth, but the truth is determined by the basis of indicators, indicators, facts. And there are also such writings by certain journalists, they say, "Even before the match was played on Po humano between Croatia and Italy, SDP's company gathered for dinner at the Split restaurant Lucica na.... In the company of Minister Ranka Ostojic, they were defence minister Ante Kotromanovic and what is very important is Ante Malov, director of Jadro Company, which maintains the lawn at the Split stadium." I'm sorry, I was wrong in time. [[Intruder Brkić: I've let you see how long you'll be, but you've gone over time for 40 seconds so please finish your exposure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75989	We're moving on to replicas. You'll be compensated for your reply to the replica. Thank you very much. The reply of the esteemed colleague Ranko Ostojić, i.e. the replica, I apologize. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75990	Dear colleague Culey, as far as honest officers are concerned, we should always take an independent judiciary. So the quoted Mr. Kaikic is in front of a court in Osijek, otherwise I wouldn't know because otherwise I don't know him, to the question of the judge did you answer that, are you legally accused of criminally... replied yes. Therefore, always come from the motive for sending certain messages, etc. Thank you for this commendation of 19.11.2015 when I, of course, signed a proposal to initiate a tight procedure that you wouldn't even know that you didn't remind me of what this gentleman or I don't know what it was, but I'm sure he would have done the same thing in any other case, which means he would have started a tight procedure for whoever did any work that didn't comply with the law and that he had to check it out. Therefore, the finale of the story about Mr. Clavot which I really appreciate as a top-notch special in my time would have just been in the executive place, but you forgot one tiny detail, I'm not going to put him out here right now, which was really a tight procedure. You know that it wasn't for the use of the car but for something else and not for saying hello to the president because at that point he would say hello to me, and I was with the president at the same celebration. Therefore, the use of a rotter is completely different from the use of a car. As for the rest of the details of these allegations by some journalists, etc. about the transfer of furniture to Dubrovnik by helicopter and so on. So I don't know what you've been waiting for these three years, it's a crime to solve it so it'll all be done together. The same story is for you to end for what you failed to finish and you're right everyone needs to be checked and even such indications that are of course a lie... here to tell now, but you like to read the paper. But the truth is was that Marko Strdarevic was chief of police administration at the time the swastika was drawn. What happened after that? First the head of the Crimea Police of Croatia, then the Chief Director of Police. Is the current head of Crimea of the Police of all Croatia Mr. Gudelj, was he then the head of the Criminal Police in Split and ate Mr. Marendic who was then deputy chief I only wanted one ten seconds just. [[/Upadica Brkic: Thank you, colleague Ostojić. Look at the time, please.]] They're in charge now, why don't they solve it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75991	Here's the minute, see how tolerated we are. Answer me, colleague Culey. You fellow Culey don't have that kind of discount.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75992	These colleagues who progressed in the service after the swastika case will prove by their work that they are professional and competent for the duties they conduct, and they will probably by their work I believe bring to an end this case of swastika which we can freely claim to have been done extremely professionally with a professional team who committed this crime on the Humane that night. I can tell you further, in addition to the responsibilities of field directors, there is also a command responsibility for which we have identified as a new way of punishing under command responsibility, you were responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75993	I'd like to thank my colleague Cole for his time. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75994	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am about to start with this crime on Pohuman, etc., there's this basic misunderstanding and why I'm saying that the chief police director should be that person who submits a police report because the police don't order the interior minister has no right under the law. His only ingenuity is that through internal control he can control activities performed by the police, of course, if there are certain suspicions of their illegalities or that something is incompatible with the code of conduct of police officers. As far as the 2015 report itself is concerned, I am still saying that it was the year in which there were the least murders in the history of the Republic of Croatia, in which the situation occurred, which means that we went through a crisis without incidents, that it was the year of 2015 in which we resisted any terrorist threat and contributed to what is the most important interest of the Republic of Croatia, which is to maintain security in this country. Of course, it was the police who did it, not me under command, I'm going to repeat it once more as a minister not replacing the DORH, not replacing the chief state attorney, the one who co-ordinates and manages criminal research along with the police. It used to be different, today it's not like that, the law has changed those things. My colleague left, but let me just say one more thing. The difference between 2015 and 2016 is very simple and this is seen from the report, these are facts. 27% more murders in 2016 than in 2015, 25% more attempted murders, 22% less reports of corruption, 12% less drug charges. That's something that's important, that's what I'm trying to say in that comparative that it's very important when you're already going to tell the facts then you need to see that there are serious differences in these reports. What is very important about Schengen, exactly what can be done at a certain point, what Croatia can do and when it has the opportunity to go to the evaluation. I'd just remind that the words... We should have been in Schengen a long time ago by the promises of all those who told their story, I think it's much more important to say, and that's that it's a common interest, and in that sense we should discuss together how these things are realized and made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compared to today, of course, the pawning of the long-standing in that every cop has a decent salary, but to be paid neatly for his job, to be paid all of his overtime, etc., that's the interest of every minister and I think there's a wrong everyone's going to watch and now I'm looking at my colleague Schuker who's not the minister fighting with the finance minister so that in his portfolio people get paid neatly, to get more money. I think that's the first and the most basic thing. Which minister wants his men not to be satisfied? But what's true is we haven't achieved today the important thing that would apply to the work of police officers, and that's to come to the coefficient of 1.00 for all, so let's see who the supplement belongs to, and not that the difference is that cops have 0.80 + 15% of the supplement, customs officers have 0.85 + 20% of the add-on or that kind of difference. I appreciate the efforts made to raise wages, of course, for people who work the hardest part of the job, but I'm always inclined to make a graduation. And it can't happen that then a professional soldier has 1.4, I'm not talking about Afghanistan, but we're talking about today here, and the cop only has 0.8 plus this one of his accessories. As far as quality police officers are concerned, the absolute issue of equipment and everything else mentioned here is unfortunately something that we don't talk about here in the Croatian Parliament and we don't talk about because it's not the topic of the agenda is doing police work, it's not a question, nor is there a sentence in these reports about how much money has been spent, how many cars have been bought, how many helicopters, uniforms, etc. And that is why it should change or the fact is that it should be the chief police director who submits a police report, and that the interior minister should be the one who talks about the state of affairs in the MUP and everything that is involved in creating conditions for police work because it is the job of the minister. The minister creates conditions for police work. Taking pictures with the results of police work, that's what we can't possibly tell the difference between what a minister's job is and what a police job is. Here's your latest example of the alleged most seized cocaine we've ever had. Of course, first congratulations to everyone who participated in the action. Every confiscation, every action needs to be commended to all of us. But there's no need to talk about that the same people who participated, let's say in action many years ago, 330 kilos to not get commended in the same way, but only the difference is huge, I was then, even though I was the headmaster of the police, it didn't occur to me to do something like that to go take pictures of it, or to attribute that thing to what I was minister at that point or what my minister wanted to take pictures with the amount of drugs. We should commend those who do this job, who have done it all together and done it. I'm not going to mention the 600-pound seizure nobody's been convicted of. As far as sentences like this are concerned, which, of course, impute the story of someone being a close associate to someone. Here you see, I would now ask the commanding responsibility of whoever hired the police officer you just named at a time when I didn't even come to the police, and he was employed since '90. and in 2000 he was in a high position in organised crime of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the part of the arrest of a criminal organisation. And let's not judge until the trial is over because then we'll see what really happened. What is most important to me may not need to be said to “flower flowers in our company. ” There's still a lot of problems to fix, that's true. But on the other hand, I support every effort that goes towards quality conditions for police officers. That's what I'm going to agree with everyone about. And that bidding who's at whose time and so on. Something he did, someone hired or something I don't think that's gonna lead us on the right track. Recitals about cybercrime, I have to stress it because of what you can see for years how much things have changed and how much they've progressed in all this together. I'm not going to talk about order of the butt, I'm not going to talk about everything that the Cybercrime Department was created when? In 2012. What he is becoming today is, of course, a logical sequence because the next year's criminality is going to see how much is going on over the Internet. Well, you yourself know how many of you are on the Internet today, how many you were three years ago, and what can happen through that, and what happened 10 years ago when it wasn't at all. Of course, then there was no need for such a department. I'll only use 20 more seconds, I won't talk until the end because I don't think there's any need. I'll tell you one more time about a quality cop. A quality police officer is an educated police officer. One who has the trust of his superiors well-equipped, properly paid, one who does not depend on being loyal, but on being professional and acting by law. When we do, then we'll be able to really talk about police officers who can serve this country with full fire and motive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75995	Thank you very much, colleague Ostojić. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Predrag Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Ostojić, I would like to ask you once again to explain one piece to me, so regarding Split and the famous swastika in Split. So, with that swastika, we're embarrassed in front of the whole world. And while you were a minister, the perpetrators weren't found. From those rounds of criticism and the government that we were in together, it was said that you could handle it, but you didn't want to. It's been almost three years since you two are no longer ministers. What about the people who could handle it now, but you didn't give it to them? Now they're in even better position to deal with it. Why isn't he getting rid of it now? Where's it stuck now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75997	I thank my esteemed colleague Matic. Reply from fellow Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75998	My colleague Matić's thing is very simple, and it is certain that police officers are working hard to solve this case. They usually do not buy into their professional work the variants of fakes, gossip and similar things. I want them to do their best. Efforts that have certainly been made as far as I know the information, which is that they have made a serious number of conversations and everything else, have tried to co-operate with foreign services about the footage do not change one other thing, which is primarily responsibility for one of the thousands of swastikas that happened in the Republic of Croatia, but this one has a special dimension, because Croatia was later punished with closed stadiums without an audience with a situation where 100,000 euros had to pay the fine. First of all, we need to know, which is that the defendants and convicted for the time being are the unauthorized organizers of the competition. That means those who didn't need a satellite were able to see it naked, and they might have seen it, but they let it all go together, thinking no one else would notice something like that on the ground. They were sentenced by fines, which were the organizers who took over an empty stadium, days before that, they were obliged to preserve it and should have done the story by the end. Therefore, I believe that the police themselves are not only on certain duties but on the people doing so. After all, Minister Bozinovic, although it is not his job, has promised in one Dnevnik, which is that a case of Split's swastika will be resolved very soon, so we will know who those suspected of committing the crime are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u75999	I thank you for your response to my colleague Ostojić. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76000	Thank you very much. A colleague of Ostojić, since you were also the director of the police and the minister, you mentioned the salaries and you are right that every minister always squeezes from the finance minister, would like as much money as possible, and that is something that is completely normal and are always wars when the budget is brought. However, what I expected you might say is said only by finance ministers. I think it's illogical that the pay system is not only with the police, and it's particularly expressed, not to pay jobs and what people do, but to pay formality. We are in this way people who are definitely exposed and even life-threatening are paid just as much as some of their colleagues who are in an office that don't generally get in touch with such a job just because formation is part of it. And it's very interesting that the Payments Act, where salaries would be determined through paying classes, where the work that is done would be clearly defined and people would be paid for the job. Another thing, it would be possible to separate work from work, because those who are good have opportunities practically every year to advance, those who do their standard work progressed from the pay grade every four years. Unfortunately, however, everyone simply keeps that status quo in their salaries and we have the situation we have. Unfortunately, people are paid as much as customs officers and tax collectors and police officers do not care if one officer in the field or in the office, it does not matter if that customs officer and the officer are together at some customs crossing is frozen and working, etc. from someone in the office, and I think that's something we need to talk about. I sincerely hope that the minister will propose this new reform and will support it, otherwise the starting coefficient is not 0.80 but for the lowest jobs a little higher, I think that somewhere around 0.90, but the officers are particularly regulated, so then that story unfortunately has a situation as unequal as it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76001	Thank you very much. Mr. Ostojic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76002	A fellow Shucker can much agree with you. The pay grade, and maybe what cops and cops are saying, and that's the variable, which is that you can give someone more than you can give them. However, we are slaves to having all the together civil servants who are tied through the Ministry of Administration at a certain level, which I think is a fundamental problem, and I agree with you that we should discuss it and I absolutely think that you are on the same track. When we say it's one, then we can talk about who's doing what? Secondly, I have to tell you that, it's true that there's another problem, and that's that a certain number that works in certain places and in the office given the low wages that are there, otherwise an authorized police officer, so acting like a cop, now I'm going to say that, because he doesn't have too much pay, that's something that's also true. But I believe that the right variant would be, and that's to best be paid by those who take the most risks, that's for me, and I believe that you're on the same track and that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76003	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr. Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76004	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Ostojić, that the wages you were already talking about and fellow Shucker of course were not good, of course I heard that they had increased in this part of the last part and that the uniforms had been given what they were supposed to be. However, police have from Slavonia where I come from in Dubrovnik County almost 400 in Istria and so many complaints that they have no place to sleep, no place to live, stay all the way from Dubrovnik to Metkovic and are so in big trouble, that we are not talking about low wages which, of course, were now slightly increased. And I'm asking management to take a little care of those people who came out there because domestics aren't going to work in the police because they think it's a miserable pay. I wanted to ask you the same question, man, but here's something you've answered in that direction. I'd like it to be investigated to find out who wrote it, that's what he drew. Certainly, the Croatian people did not want it to be on the people, not to worship some constitution, and that we want it as your people do in some way to ask such questions. I'm afraid we're going to have another two, three years to discuss this, but we're not going to find out. Here's where you want it, so put it all together, but you just can't believe the cameras and everything else was down there and you say you brought in a lot of information from these people who answered those questions. You'd ask another question, how is it possible to steal gold or some value from the police? Don't the police have any special safes when they take away Something to make sure no one has access to it, even if it's that chief or anyone else? [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] And that's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76005	Time. Time's running out. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76006	Of course I won't answer the part where the police answer you, which means how far they've come and what they've done. I just wish we didn't share in yours and ours. I said a long time ago that it was precisely an interest to find not only these swastikas but every other swastikas and even to punish everything that we're up against before that, perhaps to remind you why the stadium was empty, because of the racial discrimination that happened, because of the screams that were at the game before that. Did anyone order that? So that's why I'm saying, let's not say ours and yours, I believe we're all interested in not having those things that are unacceptable to the civilized world happen to us. And I'm glad that we've come to a situation that here we can agree that some things can't be acceptable at any point, not just in the stadium, not on the walls or anywhere else, because that symbol is absolutely unacceptable for everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76007	Thank you very much. Let's move on with individual debates, Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76008	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My respect for Secretary of State Katic and his associates. So I actually need to be here in these ten minutes how much I have at my disposal to refer to that part of the report relating to statistical indicators related to crimes whose perpetrators are children and young, especially that category of children up to 14 years of age and that category aged 14 to 18 years, and especially category so-called. older minors or those who are barely adult. In fact, if we are now looking at statistical genes at one general level, so statistics on this problem and in the report for 2015 and in the 2016 report, we can generally be satisfied and conclude that Croatia is actually a safe country in which crime is falling in one trend and that is OK and I think that with that, as far as the context is concerned, so on countries in the environment, the EU and beyond can therefore be, in general, here, conditionally speaking, satisfied. However, despite this sort of thing, generally better numbers than others, it concerns the number of crimes committed by children and young people in these categories that I have mentioned, so up to 14 and 14-18 years old and barely a minor. In fact, if we're looking at the report, I'm just going to be talking about the 2016 report that contains therefore, and some sort of trend monitoring and compared to '15. And earlier in the year, where we see that when it comes to child crime that, 12, 13, 14, 15, and 16, so I'm not counting numbers now, we can spot a trend of decline, so in general, so the crimes of this target population. I don't know what the situation is, we're already in 2018, I don't know if that trend continues in 2017 and that's OK. Although it's not OK, because as long as any child commits a crime, we have to worry about it. Now, what needs to be particularly concerned when we look at indicators that talk about the most serious crimes, or murders, where, if I read it correctly, we have 33 murders in 2015. 34 or vice versa, 2017 I have no indication, however, I am speaking in general about the total number of murders with the participation of so young people. What we need very, very and most of all to worry about is the fact that these murders are increasingly brutal, committed in an increasingly brutal way, and their perpetrators are barely adult. Last year, the public of Croatia threatened the case, we all remember, Tina Šunjerge, who, with a heavy murder in the family of her own parents, threatened the Croatian public, institutions, society and therefore, by me, since I have spent my whole life in the education system by verticals, from primary school to higher education system, it is a sign of alarm, it is a great concern and it is something that we must put a special accent on and from 3 aspects. First of all, a great and important emphasis on mental health in general children and young people, because there is a growing and greater number of difficulties that young people today simply cannot deal with, such as so, and then there is depression and all other mental illnesses, therefore, mental health care at the level of institutions rather than spordic attempts. Level two. A great deal of attention is to pay attention to preventing peer violence, therefore among children and generally violence against young people because police reports and police as an institution, as a repressive apparatus, comes at the end when it's all over. This is the job of the police, and we are just getting information from police reports, about the situation and trends in this problem, and that is why the system needs to act preventively, and we are now coming to that situation when we ask ourselves, and we are probably all wondering what the issue of the education system is, where the school is, where the institutions are connected with the school, where the family, so all those stakeholders and factors that we should worry about and then what the issue of this whole situation is, and then we show that when we get a little deeper into this character, we really become aware of the fact that the statistical data, not only the police reports, but the reports and other institutions dealing with the issues of peer violence and all of what I've been talking about, it shows really that the importance of all the families in the past and the fact that the fact that we're going back to the characters of the drinking and the drug and the growth of the different forms, the most diverse forms of the children and the young people in this situation, and we're more likely in this situation that we're going back to the key to our families, and then we're going back to the key to our families, and our families, and then we's to the key to the key to our families, and when we go back to our families, And therefore, here, I thank both the MUP and the police services on here, the management of these valuable statistics which can certainly be the source of data and indicators, therefore some sort of orientation for therefore different activities related to all other systems that are connected to the police system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76009	Thank you, Mrs. Bedekovic. You have three replicas. The first line has Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76010	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, I did not answer the line to replicate something for you on the show, but here, I will take advantage of the occasion, since there are also people from the ministry and the secretary of state, and I received a message from police officers about the disastrous state of police officers from Slavonia, I think my colleague Misic mentioned something short. In my Dubrovnik-Neretva County, meaning it's people from Slavonia, over 20 people each shift is driven home to Slavonia, here, asking me to intervene something, even warning that someone might also lose their life. So, the MUP pays each of them a month to 15 thousand travel expenses, and they go home to Slavonia after every shift, only once they pay that cost, they can all pay rent, so annually to that, that's at least my information that I got in the message, spends over a million kuna. For that money, even if it's spent so much a year, you can buy certain properties where cops can live, so there's no need for this. Here, I appeal from this place to do something for these people who are here, except that they are separated from the family, big money is being spent, and their lives are at risk because after the shift, they travel to Slavonia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76011	Here, dear fellow, I won't answer you. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Radin: Vesna Bedeković, I give you my word.]] I will not respond to the replica and forgive you for taking advantage of me when it comes to position and therefore improving the position of police officers. [[Intruder Radin: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76012	Okay. Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76013	Dear colleagues, my replica is not at all directed at negative, but even in fact, I think you have rightly warned about the part that we lack in this report that has been made, or otherwise, which is a failure in the Councils to fight crime. The prevention councils work in certain environments extremely well because you said yourself, not the police are the only ones, but there must work together with the school, with the church, with associations with all those who are interested in it, with the welfare centre. Unfortunately, data from peer violence, such headlines, which is: the Split gangs, they say, we're afraid to go outside, and you saw for yourself what videos were on Facebook. It's something you couldn't see before, I gotta be honest, it's been before. People used to sweat before, away from it, but it wasn't this way, and it's true what you said. Unfortunately, 2015 – a record year positive in terms of the smallest number of murders. Trend immediately rose upwards. I don't need to look forward to it, but the number of minors, I'll take care of it, seeing that you're interested in this subject, and I have to say that I'm sure that they would get it in the MUP, too, have very high-quality data on every crime, where, exactly how much things happen and a quality basis for the Prevention Council that unfortunately, they're not successful everywhere, and it should be said that they have failed, first of all, now I have to say it openly, what they should be involved, from NGOs to all those who would otherwise be willing to participate in a lot of other things, but only on condition that they're paid. I have this experience, unfortunately I have control here, which is that unfortunately we can't fill the body that it would mean, to oversee, say, police work, and that unless it's highly paid, or with serious money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76014	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bedekovic. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76015	Well, look, what I pointed out, so the police are a repressive apparatus. She comes at the end when it's all over. So the police don't solve the problem of violence. So, violence cannot be solved by repression because birth continues to imply violence, but it is quite clear, what you have said, a very important and very important role, therefore, police, in teams that prevent, therefore, all these diverse, whole variety of forms of violence, and therefore I have emphasized and here, I thank you that you have seen the importance of such data and the importance of all of what the police are doing as a source of future, therefore, the creation of actually future activities of the entire leprosy, the actions of prevention, and therefore, the prevention, the ways, measures, the means of action, therefore, when it comes to prevention are primarily educational measures. Grow up. A raising function of a school where we really need to work in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76016	Well, the police should have, as far as I know, a preventive character, not just a repressive one. Mr. Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76017	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bedekovic, you spoke of peer violence and that a number of institutions are involved, in this circle. However, with one intensity, it seems that this amount of violence actually increases from year to year. However, the question arises whether this impression and perception of this increase is because today there is an increasing number of media from social networks, public media, commercial media dealing with it, and then we get one picture that we are actually increasingly violent society. I don't think that violence exists or that it can even be eradicated to the end, but that it's a clear thing, it needs to be pushed to the fullest extent possible to keep it as low as possible. But here it is a question of perception, or other words of fiction, which number of violence we are talking about because objectively what I said in the statement, in 1980, 1603 died in traffic. Last year, 307 people died. It's a terrible big difference, but when you look, you read our media, you get the feeling that more and more are dying, and with these other indicators. Therefore, here we should establish the right measure of responsibility for all institutions, I agree with you that it cannot be transferred from one institution to another, and the assumption of this is that we begin to trust institutional data and institutions and institutional knowledge to a far greater extent than in individual considerations and assessments of the existing situation, it is simply a question for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76018	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Mrs. Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76019	Yes, thank you for asking me a question and for noticing it, the fact is that in the reports we talk about facts, we're talking about concrete figures that are what they are. They show a trend of decline, although we do not have to look forward to it, we will see what trends will be further and you have very well noticed that despite these facts, facts and figures we really have an impression in society because such perception is being created that we are a violent society and that actually I would dare say, I dare not say, but I do believe that this is true, we live in a media-based world. So, with its approach to sensationalism, where violence itself is violence, you would see a bunch of over-emphasised words, over-emphasised sentences that they create in one way or another, and they further strengthen this image that Croatian society is a violent society, and indeed this is one problem that a lot of people here could talk about, unfortunately we don't have enough time. And I agree that it is very important to work, all the institutions, again not to list all of what I have listed so far, to work on one campaign, to achieve one real and good and effective campaign that would try to show Croatian society in a more realistic way over a longer period of time, with less leanings and showing Croatian society through the prism of a Croatian society as violent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76020	Thank you, too. And now Mr. Ranko Ostojić will have the final debate, the final 5 minutes on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I'll look back on the most important points I've said before. First of all, it's about the sense of security with the citizens. Exactly what we were just talking about, and that's the question of impression. Only 1% of the crimes are actually of interest, I will now say the interest or sense of security or uncertainty in the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What is important, which we must be interested in working as parliamentary representatives, is that we too can participate in certain activities and laws, etc., which can affect these variations of prevention that we would reduce if certain things didn't happen because the figures are worrying. I'm not going to go into details, but only in 2016, compared to 2015, children up to 14 years old, not up to 18 but 14 years old, did 443 crimes, a year before that 285. Thus, this figure itself says that if the trend grows, we must have activity that can prevent it. As far as the police are concerned, Mr. Misic, I owe you, I failed through the reply to the replica to tell you and now in this final address as my colleague Grumoja warned, you were not at the beginning, I tried to give a solution to this situation which naturally takes place in parts of the Republic of Croatia in which there is not so much interest that the domicile residents become police officers and police officers. Most often come from Slavonia, they make a contract that goes to a certain period, which is that they can't look for a place to be, of course that the interest to be in the police is their sayings and then they happen to face terrible problems. Low wage, beginner's salary, a situation where it's concrete in Dubrovnik or Istria all expensive, is not that they can't drink coffee but can't pay themselves even those basic things and that's what secured accommodation to do. For reasons I have suggested that it is much better and more active to include reserve police which is local, which at certain times works there and works for much less money, people are interested in what they would be almost in the same status as police officers, would not cost the state as much and then would be an opportunity to organize work much easier in other police stations. Also, certain shifts have been made, a specific facility in the Coopers that was built right through the construction of the Schengen facilities, you must know that in addition to having 6 000 and a few policemen we must have in the border police guarding the border of the Republic of Croatia, which is over 3 300 km, only from BiH 1 009 km, that's something that your condition is, that was a condition for joining the EU, at which point you are asked to build centres where people will be able and stay. Among other things, it was also done in the Lower Lapac, such a same centre was designed means, specifically, to replace the place of Gruda and Kukari, and the border guards to go to Kukara, and the rest of them to get more space. The police union specifically had specific suggestions to try to help them, and I think it's really worth trying to at least through a field supplement or find to allow them normal accommodation, not to make this happen that they're actually traveling. I think the problem is next, even if I don't think the M.O.P. doesn't pay the costs in such a way that he pays him every time he goes home and goes back, it's a variant where he's cheaper to pay for a bus ticket and go home than to stay in Dubrovnik, and that's a situation where it's more worth it than paying for an expensive apartment. There's a problem, in my opinion, and it's really something that the MUP could probably get in support of this House because I don't think it's that kind of money, and they can really be worth it. It was a concrete response, a particular proposal that I think can be solved. Finally, as far as the reports are concerned, I'll do it again. I think it's important or to change this provision, which is: let the chief police director do it with as many associates as he wants, or let the variant come back that it's the interior minister who then talks about the total work of the MUP, because to me, it's a much better variant that I've been talking about for years. And the finale of the story, as far as I'm concerned, which is yes. Here, I don't need to add any more. [[Intruder Radin: Time, Mr. Ostojić.]] I thank all those who were careful to listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76022	Thank you very much. Please don't throw you off the bench. You have one replica, Mr. Ostojic. Mr. Paric is replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76023	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Ostojić, a comment on the security of the citizens you mentioned, but it is well directed, in fact, to the representatives of the ministry. Internet and children's safety online. I claim that the Internet today is, in fact, so huge, so complicated and insecure that it is much easier for children to educate that they will use the Internet responsibly and wisely than protect them on that internet itself. We each year, let's say, the MUP has actions when school starts, we watch the children in traffic, which is directed to both drivers and children and parents, but very rarely we notice actions that are related to the safety of children on the internet. And believe me, statistically, these kids are safer without any traffic education than on the Internet right now. And I was already saying this when topics related to the education of the Ministry of Science and Education were, I think we definitely need it not today, not tomorrow, but yesterday, but rather to introduce the education of responsible Internet use, education of children on the Internet, to be aware of dangers and all possible, I think you know perfectly well what I'm talking about, who are lurking from the Internet, because indeed, the Internet is big, complex and I think very little today as a state and as a general government we work on human education, and especially children about dangers from the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76024	Mr. Ostojić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76025	Comrade Parisic, I think you've located quite well that part of the danger lurking on the Internet. I'm gonna have to smile a little bit. It's not just kids being threatened. We're all actually at risk, and that's the issue of information literacy. You're never sure when you hit that I agree, or you agree with something, you press that little clutch, you might lose your kidney, or you've lost $100,000, who knows what's gonna happen behind that. Thus, the danger really lurks. All those who use the Internet as something to commit a crime requires a quality reaction, the MUP is one of the participants, doing a large number of actions, they have started long ago, and what I see, which is that it really has to be done on a higher level, and you are absolutely right, it should be an integral part of the education in schools because the danger that is lurking there, on the internet, of all that they can be drawn into, deserves to be an integral part of the regular school program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76026	I'm finishing... Mr. Bull, come in. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76027	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed what your breath represents. I don't know, but I can tell. I can only say that as a man who was in the Croatian police at the beginning of the Homeland War, I have to say that it is a professional job of people who care about the safety of our citizens and who together with civil society and all of us can contribute and prevent a number of crimes in our society that arise from violence, crime, murder and believe that through the councils i.e. committees operating in the county, local self-government, which is a council for the prevention of crime, addiction and all the bad things that are happening in our midst, so that this policeman can do the job together. [[Intruder Radin: There was no sigh, there was a smile of pleasure.]] However, this Croatian police officer, while buying armored vehicles, whether they are needed or not, I don't know, while millions spend on things that in public create a very bad impression, Croatian police officers work for minimum wage, stop on the road, many of them have been natives since the first days, they have to do these jobs for minimum wage, and the system doesn't stand behind them. How can it not stand? So is it possible to go in old shoes, torn uniforms, what we said just before, that people from Slavonia our officers must go to the Dubrovnik area, Metkovic, Istria, without the insurance of their families. We are certainly displaced, yet in this way I cannot even get a chance to start a family, and they are obliged to take care of our system. I really believe that everything that happened in previous years, 2015, 2016, that colleague Ostojić was saying, bans do nothing good. The bans do revolt. Prevention, education is working. What you forbid, you know, especially young people, is the favorite forbidden fruit. Believe me, the system can do much more and I have personally participated in numerous actions, police of Split Dalmatian, along with the Council for Prevention and on the return of weapons, which was everywhere since the Homeland War. And indeed, these people have done a huge job in Split. I come from Sinj, three years in a row, is the safest city in the Republic of Croatia, indeed, the police are doing their job. Of course, someone says, everything's been robbed,... He can't steal anything, so there's no crime. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, that may also be one pattern, but the police, indeed, these guys are doing their job with a number I was at the beginning of the Homeland War in the war, but indeed, on these people, on human resources rests the strength of the Croatian police, Croatian security. Without a man, we don't have, all the technique we have doesn't mean anything. Please invest more in the man. But if a man doesn't have basic needs in his salary, as a minimum cop's salary, he talks about us and how much we work on security. We in Parliament need to talk publicly about this, along with this part of kindergarten prevention, so all institutions, institutions, schools and education with the help of the police, and we have expert personnel in the police who can help civil society and thus prevent a number of criminal actions, crime, addiction, and it is regrettable that what is being created is perception, that here, on the matter of addiction, those who have 2 joints in their pocket, and those who are dealing, to do, of course, it is a perception that the police have a major task there. But without a cop who's equipped, who's insured and guaranteed pay, but that's not a job, it's not a trade I'll be working for four hours. A cop like a soldier must be ready to do his job for 24 hours. He doesn't have the right to kick, whether in civilian or in uniform. It is the most serious business, it represents the state, the security of citizens, in that area of the Republic of Croatia. Investment in man, counterpart Grmoja spoke, after colleagues Misic and colleagues Ostojić and in the initial, at his presentation in the end, meant about the man. First of all, make sure the man lives with dignity. Because he can't have an extra interest. We can't get a cop if he has 2, 3 kids, his wife doesn't work, and he's got to go to the baustel for both his hours, and he's got to hide in black. We must not put ourselves in the position of man, and armored cars, vehicles, techniques, ministers' praises are less important. No matter what political option, don't, that a bad perception, such as the vehicle centre, which gave public authority, gave one authority to an individual, gave a monopoly, to groups that were former ministers, and that's a bad, perception of people towards the police. A cop above all else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76028	Time, Mr. Bull. Thank you, too. But you have two more lines, so you'll be able to answer some more questions, first, first replica has Mr. Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76029	Thank you, Vice President. Just for a little while, I agree with investing in people. Most importantly, however, we should know the following, we are parliamentary representatives, we are the ones who adopt the budget. We're the ones who decide how much money the M.O.P. will eventually have. As long as the relationship is next, 80% goes for wages, 20% for everything else, of course there's no situation where things are going to get better. This can be solved or by reducing the number, I'm not sure that we can afford to reduce the number so that it doesn't affect the situation, the fight against crime, etc. Given the great border, a large number of border guards and the like. The other part of the story, it's just modernization, can lead us to it, to reduce and get a better organization, that's what the effort should be. If we can achieve a situation, that we don't need 1800 people sitting on operational duty, that we're in the possibility of doing it from a smaller center, so we get cops who are then on the street and they can have a better chance of doing it, I think that's the solution. We need to connect each other, invest in people absolutely yes and equally modernization that can then ensure the opportunity to be better paid, to be better, this more effective police work on the ground. And what's finally, in my opinion clearly said, and that is to choose priorities in what money is invested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76030	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76031	I agree, colleague, that in this part, in this part, a cop above all means man. If a man doesn't, that's what I said, basic means of living, he has a family. A cop, a man who has to be 24... He doesn't have the right to work part-time, I mean, there's no legal possibility and he's degraded essentially that security system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If you see a man at the baustel, he's working on black windows this thing, but he's forced if he doesn't have a life. He's got to, he's got to stop us on the road, he's got to take all kinds of insults, probably the first, that we're, I mean just gonna put up with it, and there's no pay. So, first of all, man, modernization and technical equipment, absolutely, but certainly not too many armored vehicles, too many, I don't know, by which calculations it works, but we see that it's such a perception. And I think that budgets are important, but surely to reassess it, the profession knows better, the possibilities, to mostly get paid by those who are on the street, cops who are direct and prevention, meaning man above all, prevention is another thing, very important, with all the local, regional self-government, with the education structure, that there is much more to be done. And without a satisfied cop, there's just no security. I mean, it's a man above all else. And when it's less equipment, we're in the Homeland War, the police were much worse equipped than the forces they attacked, so they were basically a defense driver in the Homeland War. And we must never forget that, and those people are still in the system. And to these values, these people need to be held. Those people are... Many of that time still work in traffic police and work in high position and on the street, therefore, police have value, cop, man, man, and blinded vehicles and that, too, which is too much, and what's too salty... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76032	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull. They can't be insulted by cops, so they'll suffer less, that's the first thing, I think. Mr. Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76033	Comrade Bulj, your exposure was also about the quality of the police. Our police are very good at what they make. I would repeat, I would take the opportunity to return to my Slavons who are in Dubrovnik, Istria who are truly a minimum of human dignity if they had to look for apartments, travel and all that. I think, however, that the police should be given more authority, greater authority when both stopping and detaining both at the end and acting and physically towards certain persons. They need to be given the authority not to be afraid of being removed from the police, is someone going to do some business through some kind of relationship? I'd like to take a look at the traffic. Every day I was in traffic, traveling to Slavonia to Zagreb, and here I saw two cars in Zagreb, where this Ljubljana or Slavonski, as they called themselves, used to cross columns, to get in, to play, to drive where they brake, where they smoke from the wheels because they were, so I ended up looking at a portal where someone went around the whole circle on the rotor or running into tunnels where all the cameras are recording. I'm asking you here if you're punishing such persons, do you investigate these persons? I wish there was more to the police in civilians, in civilian vehicles and taking these people and punishing them and getting them off the road, because they're murderers on the roads. I ask you to do this, be in a civilian and in this Zagreb where I see that there is savagery and not only in Zagreb and to the parish where I drive every Friday and Tuesday. So I ask you to keep these wild people who are murderers on the road, to take a little care of it and to prevent it before evil comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76034	Replication response, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76035	My colleague Misic, I wouldn't be talking about wild people right now, I would talk about the legality and illegality of acting illegally, if people acting in this way had prescribed legal measures. And of course there's the police who have to do a certain job if they're jeopardizing someone of yours, my freedom or endangering the lives of traffic, of course there is and the police are simply her task. However, the fact is for me citizens local self-government, MPs, the whole society has to work to prevent all these events, these possibilities at all to happen and the police are the tools that must be for security in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. But that cop, like you said, who goes south from Slavonia, doesn't have enough means to live to survive down there, let alone the accommodation is secured simply by the humiliation of the man inside the system. We can't justify everything, there was an attack of some kind I saw was published in the media on some cop's reporter, so we don't need to glorify everything now. But the police triba will be the one at the centre of attention, the triba will provide him with living conditions and will increase the interest of the much better-quality staff they want, not to get off the force and go to Ireland, but to stay here younger, so people who want to be part of the system. Because a cop is a man who's been on duty 24 hours. We can't just deal with expensive cars blinded, and this man from Slavonia goes down without. When there's no time to build a family first. Second of all, there's no means for family, there's not enough for yourself. And I believe that there can be a solution with us and most of all that brings this budget. And the police probably have the sense to start thinking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76036	Thank you, too. And now, on behalf of the rapporteur, he has the right to say Mr Zarko Katic, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76037	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam MPs, gentlemen. After further discussion, I thank you all for your participation, and I think I can conclude that anyone comes from this debate and your words, that there is a tendency, an interest in improving the material position of a police officer that I have initially said is the basis of the police's success. Bad equipment or technique if we don't trust a man, if a man isn't dressed, if he's not educated, and if he's not accessible, kind, decent, and he doesn't know his job. These reports for a little while ago 2015 and 2016, of course, serve as a basis for us at the Ministry of the Interior, where we focus our work and, of course, how and how to structure these reports for next year, for the past 2017, which is preparing to see trends and adequately respond to new challenges. Here, such new forms of crime as cybercrime were mentioned, so there were talk of peer violence as a new phenomenon where there is an increasing number of unfortunately children and minors who commit crimes, and this peer violence includes almost 30% of the crimes committed by children and minors. So, according to some of the criminal acts or phenomena of modern society such as the migration wave, this migrant crisis that affected us in these years that we talked about but which, of course, lurks around here and can still touch us not only but also shut us down. I believe there is a will to improve this material position of the Croatian police. We at the ministry are doing everything we can to keep him within the existing means. It communicates and tries with local and regional self-government to find solutions in some places where it is really necessary, here are mentioned Dubrovnik-Neretva County, Istrian County where there are many police officers who have come from other parts of our country. They're really not in a great position to be a policeman's salary, unfortunately the same whether they work in Vukovar-Srijem, in Međimurje or the Istrian Police Administration, and we know that the cost of living especially housing, but other costs are not equal. Some moves have been made, it is a matter of improving that status, even in the amendments to the Law on the Police which is now being done and which will come before you during this year overlooked, if you so approve, one and a supplement for housing officers working far from their residence and for police officers who will work on islands regardless of their distance from the mainland. The indicator that a police profession, although it would be better to say what one of you has said and because it is an invitation that requires a lot of denial and a whole man, is no longer so interesting and fewer people appear in our competitions that we call each year. Until just a few years ago, the number of candidates was almost tenfold the number of jobs scheduled, and unfortunately, in the last year, that number was very little higher than the number requested, and we know that always one number of people fall away for some other reasons, health, safety and similar reasons. That's why the ministry is making a considerable effort to explain what police work is, and here are the last weeks our colleagues have been in some police administrations, and especially this where we have a shortage of domestic police officers to say so, to motivate them to report, to educate and to do this honorable work. The police, like you said, can't do it alone. We work with other state bodies, local self-government, civil society, and we have to and we want to do more. We've apostrophe here to prevent, there's a lot of preventive programs and action, but prevention is never enough. Mr. Paric would only answer that this teaching of children and young people about dangers lurking on the Internet has also entered the preventive programmes under our "Live Life Without Violence" action and that police officers explain to children in schools how to protect themselves online. But of course there are teachers and other services involved. I'm here at the end of Mr. Bull. I'm not going to mention it individually anymore. He mentioned armored vehicles several times. It's kind of like some kind of light motive that goes around in the media, the MUP doesn't need armored vehicles for itself and its employees, not for officials, not for the director, not for the minister, not for anyone. We know that there are certain protected persons in the country, and especially our guests of senior state officials or representatives of the international community who are in that rank, that their assessment of their safety requires an armored vehicle or the security services of those countries themselves, and we as a serious country should be able to meet such a requirement to secure such a vehicle. And such vehicles, if supplied, are supplied only for such needs, will be a sure increase during the Croatian Presidency in the first half of 2020, so in this sense it won't be necessary to be surprised if something like that, such a vehicle then for these needs and obtained, but of course it must be taken to make sure that it is in all the regulations under which it is obtained and that it costs as little taxpayers as possible. I'd end up with this. Once again, I thank everyone and I believe that the report for 2017 will be in front of you as soon as possible, and if that is the direction, there would be changes to the Police Act to apply the second principle that this report is then submitted by the Chief Director of Police. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76038	Dear Secretary. Don't understand what I've told the armored vehicles to refer only to the police. Well, I know that officers on the ground have not exactly the best vehicles, not the best technical equipment, the equipment and the safest equipment, even the lack of a vehicle on the ground there are those people and a large number of years. However, the messages about blinded vehicles are perceived badly as well as one question I asked in the assembly were spoken by me and my colleagues to other MPs here, this is an example of the Centre for Vehicles that has public authority from the MUP because I asked the former minister, I received an official answer which is a private company where it is written and says that there are co-owners, owners of former ministers, employees and so where they have public authority and monopoly, and the private company is above all about the vehicle, technical checks and so on. So, it's not good according to... that someone has a monopoly, that a private company, to mention former ministers, formerly I asked about it, I got an answer from a former minister who's purely civil. So we don't have an answer, so we have a monopoly and we simply have a tribune, a perception, these victims of people doing their job for a couple thousand kunas on the road, and there's a bad perception about a cop because of these things. It is not equipped on the ground, nor has the conditions of material technical or good vehicles, while the story of armored vehicles is being told. And it closes this story about the Centre for Vehicles that gives consent and public authority to the MUP, and it's private property. And it's said that all the ministers, most ministers and ex-cops inside, are involved, I can't possibly get an answer to that. I've received one civil response and of course it's a bad perception of the police from the citizens, that's not good. Do you understand me? So... I'm talking than that... doing his job for 24 hours. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] The speakers speak at the same time, he doesn't understand. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] [[Time goes, we get old, time goes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76039	Do you want an answer right away or do you want to answer it in the end? We've got three replicas, right now, okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76040	Dear Mr. Representative, the route of the vehicle centre and the transfer of powers has been a great deal communicable in the last few months when the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposed amendments to the Road Safety Act and they entered into force since 1 January of this year. The real indicator of whether this is a good move is whether there is satisfaction for citizens and economic operators. As far as we have information, citizens are satisfied with these changes, economic operators, so those dealers who sell vehicles too, and that was a good move and a useful move, also shows the fact that the number of changes in registrations in the first two months of this year, is much bigger than it was in the same period last year, which tells us that part of the citizens who changed and bought vehicles, that they decided to wait a little while and that they did it early this year because I remind you, now they can do it in one place without needless walking into several institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76041	Thank you, too. The second replica has Mr. Paric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76042	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Katic, this is the last replica, after this you are finished. I thank you for your previous response to my line, I have one more question. Namely, cyber crime, it's something that's been very, very, even perhaps exponentially growing in recent years, and it's highly technological, so a crime based on very, very high-tech technologies and complicated, there's a lot of it, even in my experience, a lot more than you actually know in public. Recently there was a major attack on the German government's websites, I know there have been quite a lot of attacks on the official sides of Croatian ministries, governments and all. What's interesting is that it's actually done by criminals who are highly-technologicalally educated, who need very high-specific buildings for such things. Similarly, on the other hand, you must have in the police people who at least know the same thing or generally need to know more than to prevent, prevent and do forensics of everything. What is important in getting and hiring such people, you have to pay them really adequately in order to get them at all, you have to work a lot on their education, invest money for their education and what I am interested in, commentary interests, just a few words if you can and how much can you, in fact in the police today in Croatia look and how we even fight with it and what people look like, education and all together? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76043	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Katic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76044	... You're right about everything you said, when we've formed now, we've expanded this service, the people who entered it have been tested, so from more candidates, those who have the best specific knowledge have been chosen, they've been increased the coefficient so they're better rewarded, but let's be honest, the salaries in the state service for certain high-level occupations are never as good as they can offer them companies. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I hope in this case not some criminals, right, but we, in the context of our capabilities and the resources we have, are fighting and we know that this is a very big challenge and that we are facing him seriously and will have to fight with more resources and better education for the next few years, we believe that this fight will be a success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76045	Thank you, too. And the last line has Mrs. Ljubica Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76046	Thank you, Vice President. Dear secretary of state with associates, here we can all agree that the M.O.P. mirror is every country. First time we come to a country we meet and talk to is police and customs. In the past, you yourself said, that profession was very attractive to young people today, unfortunately, young people no longer have an affinity for such a calling. Everyone here has already looked back on the problem that has been a long time with our police officers from Slavonia, of course, that for many years they have been filling the Adriatic administrations, so in the end, their salary, which is traineeship, cannot satisfy any basic conditions, and they must eventually reach out for that work, perhaps on black and give God not to take their family away and live with it in a tourist center like Dubrovnik, and have looked back at several colleagues, then here every day they travel to Slavonia and home and return to their shift, which is of course not good or nothing. We all have to work together on better conditions, I'll say that in Slavonski Brod, you know, the camp was formed, then, and, of course, the police did their job well, and then there was a lot of financial resources and our officers were working on 6 locations, and it's impossible in one day to come and do whatever it takes. The plot for the new police administration building exists for 40 years, the projectors have long died, the building permits have expired, so the commissioners who were from other backgrounds have done their mandates and gone, and the problem we have, here I say for many years So I think they deserve the conditions they are, thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76047	Thank you very much. Mr. Katic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76048	Dear Madam MPs, this is the last thing you said, the state of Pu Brodo-Posavia, it's really serious, it's top priority of the MUP, and we believe this year we're going to start dealing with the issue of how the accommodation of police officers and the space to work with the parties, with citizens who are also not adequate to cover that area, and I know that part very well for years. We adequately now have two options of which one of them will choose and this year we solve that part, so work with the citizens. The issue of insufficient police officers and their travel or stay in other parts of the country is indeed a serious issue, the MUP is seriously committed to it. This furniture at the ministry and recently has been assistant minister and deputy director-general visited these counties and talked to the mayors, mayors and mayors and are trying to find a solution in Kukari, a building that was built, has 168 seats, but it is not enough for all those who came to Dubrovnik-Neretva County to work in police administration, to work as police officers. It provides accommodation and a favourable price for meals, but not all employees can be located there, working on increasing capacity. I stress, it is a serious question if a police officer is not allowed decent accommodation and working conditions, then he cannot and can not be asked to give a maximum and this issue personally, and I assure you both the Minister and the Director-General take it very seriously and are maximumly committed to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76049	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote traditionally when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76050	Internal Affairs Minister's report on police operations in 2015. He's an internal affairs minister. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report by the Minister of the Interior on police affairs is hereby accepted in 2015. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 91 votes for and 3 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent board. The Committee on Gender Equality has proposed to the Assembly a conclusion which reads: A report by the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of police affairs in 2015. However, this proposal for a conclusion is unambiguous to vote after we have reached a conclusion in the text as proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76175	And now we move on to the next item of the agenda - Final bill on amending the Law on child allowance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 251 – Proposer: SDP representative club on the basis of Article 85. The Republic of Croatia and Article 72 and Article 204 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So we have an emergency procedure under the law in just one reading, according to Article 204 of the amendment can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. The government delivered an opinion. Would Mrs. Maria Alfirev, on behalf of the promoter, like to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76176	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Bosniak and Secretary of State and fellow Members of Parliament. So, we propose, so the SDP club today proposes the Law amending the Law on Extra for Children. For what? So we think this law is one of those laws that should actually come across a consensus of all of us. A law that shouldn't have some political objections because it's actually a law that primarily corresponds to one big, actually one huge problem of our society, which is child poverty. And surely you will give me the right to actually be poor children, children are actually our concern, children are caring, not just families, not individuals, not local communities, children really care about this country. It's a primary country. And that's why, so in proposing this bill I'm going to bring you some data that are really worrying. According to data, so first of all, the State Statistics Institute, which shows poverty and social exclusion in 2016, is about the risk of poverty of almost 20%. And when we talk about the rate of relative poverty of children in the Republic of Croatia, then we need to be even more concerned because this rate of relative child poverty is 7% higher than the average of European countries, and that is indeed the information that we all need to be alarming. And when we talk about who is at the highest risk, or that the biggest risk is children living in households with a higher number of children, that they are also children in households with one low working intensity, in large households with a low level of adult education and rural households. I will return to the moment when I said that the rate of relative poverty is thus 7% higher than the average of European countries and that of us is only a higher rate, so from us, only Bulgaria and Romania are in a more unfavourable position. At the risk of poverty are the most when we talk about single parent families with one or more children. Also to families where there are two adults, but with three or more children. And what we have to mention, which is particularly important, is that it is a age group from birth to 17, which takes over 20%, and in this group is particularly prominent until the 5th year of life. And for these very reasons, we think that this institute that is extremely important in improving children's standards, which means a child's allowance, we need to go up. So not in the sense that we do not agree that at this point it is going with a broader scope to go with a law that would extend the scope of the user, but to go with the law and to adopt this proposal that goes on to increase the extra charge for children. And in what way? At this point, we should mention that the budget base has not changed for 17 years since the Law on Extra for Children was passed and that at this point there are three levels, three groups in which the largest amount is 300 kuna, is lower than this group where the user belongs to an allowance for children of 7.5%, representing a nominal amount of 250 kuna and a third where the user is entitled to an allowance for children of 9% of the budget base, which is only 200 kuna. In this proposal, we are going with a proposal to increase these 300 kunas to 450, these 250 to 375 and these 200 to 300 kuna. What we must stress once again is the primary objective of this law is to reduce child poverty. We cannot say that some social transfers in the form of family benefits can be exclusively directed at demographic restoration because you will give me the right to hardly have someone with 300 kuna to decide on the birth of children. However, when we know that these children live in families and that their parents, these mothers are sometimes hungry or often hungry, and that as many as 45% of these parents were sometimes hungry for covering the needs of children, those primary needs of children, the need for food, the need for housing, and that we are not talking about any other needs, such as free activities at all, and we know that many of these parents are unable to even provide for their child to go on a school trip or something else, any other species that is beyond what is minimally possible to provide. At this moment, around a billion and 300 million kuna are secured for child's allowance in Croatia. What we are proposing now would include the same number of users, i.e. about 286 million children, and would require additional allocations from the state budget for 658 million kuna and we believe that the budget rebalance would certainly be able to secure that amount. In this law that we are proposing now, we will also point out that we will give the amendment to Article 2 because this Article 2 of this Law said that this law will be published in the National Journal, which will enter into force on 1 January 2018, the amendment will read to take effect on the eighth day of its adoption. Here's so much with another indication, that this law is about the answer to the growing poverty of children who really need us all, that this poverty of children must not be taken for granted, that it is not the concern of the individual family, that it is not only the local communities. This is the concern of the state, this is the concern of the whole society because the families from which these children come are often, not often, but mostly the users themselves are guaranteed minimum fees, and when we know that this guaranteed minimum fee is also very miserable, you will also give me the right to know that for 800 kuna per month it is really impossible to cover any cost and that it is indeed at the level of any human dignity. I would like to say that we also suggested that when we talked about the 2018 budget, we also proposed an increase in the minimum minimum fees ourselves, which was not as an amendment adopted. And here's to this response for the ministries we see that it's probably on this trail and as far as this law is concerned, we're kind of wondering how this government doesn't really see the problem of growing poverty and families and children and how it doesn't really need to respond to this growing problem and I hope here, I mean, it's not nice when it's not even about this big problem really and too much of an advocate is interested in this, and there's not enough of us here, as much as we really need to talk about poverty and really have one consensus, but maybe because of this attitude that you have and therefore, that's something we can really talk about, when we're talking about, here we're also talking about insurance and car, so, in the budget was really necessary for everything, and then it's not quite understandable that we can find 658 million kuna for at least, an increase of this standard of children, and according to some data, for one child's basic needs, 900. And another key piece of information, this is what we heard today, children, so over 30% of the children from this category that we're talking about aren't even included in kindergarten, so we have a really big problem, and our proposal is just like that. So he's responding to the current and he's looking for an urgent and quick solution. Whether it will be later or somehow otherwise, more comprehensively address the problem that needs to be done, and some other measures need to be taken. But we think that this is the moment when we need to act this way and act quickly in terms of easing these consequences and reducing the risk to the future because, believe me, according to all the data of children now in these families, at this risk of poverty, they will actually be poorer people. So later, they are at an even greater risk of poverty and have fewer opportunities for an equal and quality life. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76177	Thank you, too. Since there have been some interventions from the bench on the presence of MPs, then I can notice that at this point there are nine MPs with me in this House, that it is true that HDZ leads 4:1, which is a good result in football, but not in the Parliament. We're moving on to Mr. Mira Bulj who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76178	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yes, noticeably, the proposing party means SDP representatives, i.e. MPs that we don't have it here, means a very small number of MPs, but I would like the applicant to be in a larger number, to defend what's easy to defend and what's good to open the debate and of course that most of us must always think about, about the problems our society has and it's an interest to launch in this way in essence, and all the proposals that come in this direction are proposals that the government has to look back on because these proposals, as regards the amendment of this Children's Supplement Act, we have to say that child poverty is not only conditioned by family poverty, but also from the area from which they come from. We have to think, when we talk about this Act on Children and Children's Extras, where 600 and a few million kunas would be more per the new proposal, surely in 2002, the basis is, the calculation essentially didn't change the Law on Child Compensation, and I believe it's one of the wheels that matter for the survival of people on this subsistence. Because young people in particular, if we speak and in the area, kindergarten is secured in Zagreb, free textbooks are secured in rich environments, free transportation, means everyone where the rich environments are somewhat secured, but not enough, although this is the Law for all children and we need to think about our children, and especially the most endangered. But when we talk about these laws, when we talk about the wheels of a demographic bad picture, then we have to look at it regionally. We must observe that 2/3 of Croatia is empty today. In Dalmatinska Zagora alone, we speak from Neretva, 36 local units, from Neretva from Krka, in the last, 2011 to 2016 evicted 26 thousand inhabitants. It's a huge number on that surface of the Dalmatian burn. We won't talk about Slavonia. So these measures that are now mainly about children, of course we will accept, of course, that this is in the first reading and that we have some suggestions and in talking to associations dealing with these problems as a family with 4 and more children, so I have these contacts and surely this proposal can be influenced, in fact it improves the current measure. However, it is not just a measure, as was said, 1000 euros for the newborn, that is one measure that is at that time the way it is. It would be better if, in the wheels of all these laws, in particular these child-adjustment laws, we had secured textbooks, for which I gave them an amendment for all primary schools of 300 and a few million for all, in the entire Republic of Croatia, waiting on benches. However, there is, of course, an influential lobby of publishers who, of course, do not want education to work that way because it is privatized. Both textbooks and publishers are privatized, so everything is subject to even basic education, publishing textbooks is subordinated to capital and some kind of market, and smaller children and less to this social category and it is not good because before the Constitution we are all equal and mostly children. They have the same rights and opportunities mainly in education, advancement, however, this is not the case in Croatia and should be considered in a broader way. This wheel that we will support, to go to another reading, to discuss this and to discuss this, and as far as I'm concerned, I would like the child's income to be greater, because children are everything. No kids, no future. We are currently the oldest, one of the oldest nations, 2/3 of Croatia is empty, children do not have the same conditions in the Republic of Croatia, territorially, do not have the same conditions as in the EU, which we are calling on, therefore, will remain our country empty. And that's why I expect both the government and the MPs, of course, and this proposal that you make before us that we will discuss it. I'm sorry that there are very few MPs, mostly on the side of the motion, we should have been more and more serious to talk about. Here, I expect, that the measures we have given and on behalf of the Most Club, the legislative initiative, in the project, means, to our, this, this, which we are going through, will not be the Istanbul Convention, but the convention will remain there, which is much more important than all the conventions that delegate to us from the EU, that we have to pay in billions of kunas, some supercommunicators that will control here in schools, in institutions, we will have to pay foreigners and control it. And of course, there won't be enough money, about a billion kuna, we pay the foreigners one part of it, to the associations to control the implementation of some directive, which our European officials are obliged to implement in the Republic, which already has in the legislation, that much of it has been directed towards the most intelligent policy in the protection of the family, the protection of children, because if the children have enough and the family is much more fortunate, the disorder is coming into the family, because when children are not, when they are hungry, when parents are out of their mind, they have no business and of course they are much more important to me than a convention, to invite people, young people to stay here and fight for young people, to fight for families, especially for women who receive salaries, so I can't provide their parents, I think it's much more important project and conventions than a number of directives and conventions that impose on us institutions, of course, which we'll finance these children. Because if this billion kuna money was directed at this law, it would certainly be much happier both women and families and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76179	Let's not forget the husbands too. Mrs. Alfirev, you're looking for a replica, I'll give you, of course, now a word, however, for rationalization, you know that in the end you have... But I saw one hand, but I thought it was yours, it was the hand of the Temple, there you go Mr. Hrelja, I didn't see it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You're so close.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76180	My dear Vice President, urgently for an examination at the occult, to better see whose hand it is, I don't know, how you can replace my hand with Mrs. Maria's hand. But anyway, yeah, I picked up a replica board, just for college reasons. I'm telling my colleague Bull that this law has been sent, that is, adopted in an emergency procedure, so there's no possibility of anything being done in another reading except today, because today everything is being done. But anyway, I'm taking the opportunity to say one thing that the world is making progress with small steps ahead and if the government thinks it's small, then both lunches should have taken such high-quality little moves forward. 'Cause little step by step, we come up with big solutions. And if we're waiting for big steps, then we can't wait for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76181	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76182	I agree, here's one step and in order to be much better, that the money we're giving to the underdogs to control about a billion kunas, we need to secure, and we can't even apply the applicable laws, that's the story. Because we're going to associations at the Istanbul Convention to control, whether we're implementing, so they're above the law, they're going to control, if we're implementing what we already have in our legislation. There's nothing about women, because we're going to give a billion, and I wish that this billion kuna, aimed at children, because happy children and family will be happier, there will be less violence, because a lot of violence is happening because of poverty. Which doesn't mean that poorer families, not perhaps homogeneous, less poverty, better raised, don't have to be the rule. Therefore, I expect that this will be, I will personally vote for this, of course, but this is one wheel of the whole story and I would pray that Croatia is finally acting modernly and that we should not give the money to the EU's superintendents, but that we invest money in such wheels and wheels per wheel, I guess we will have a happy society, happy children, happy wife, mother, all happy parents, husbands and that we will be much happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76183	Okay. Now it's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic's turn in front of the SDP, unfortunately she's gone, losing her right. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76184	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76185	Please, just a moment, please, Mr. Bunzac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76186	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I apologize, can we hear what the government thinks about the proposed law, which is sitting here by the government's representatives, we don't know what their opinion is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76187	Yes, yes, but you can't, look, there is one procedure, Mr. Bunyan, in this House. Not only that, there is one procedure in this House, you can only move a little bit, Mr. Bulj, to see Mr. Bunjec. The procedure says so, of course the government has the right to speak, but if they won't speak, they won't speak and you will have, now that you come to the word, you will say, you will call the government the way you want, I will not interrupt you. How about that? She's already started talking to Mrs. Maximchuk, and now you're right behind her. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76188	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the promoters, respected colleagues and colleagues. As we all know, our most valuable potential has always been people and their values, which eventually make up the civil wealth of Croatia, and our tasks and obligations to preserve, cultivate, develop and transfer that wealth to all future generations and generations. This government is socially sensitive to the most vulnerable groups, and most to children. Some measures have already been taken and some are ongoing. I would remind you that the SDP had the opportunity for four years, he was in power to make our fellow citizens better, but this government inherited the problems with which the stake got caught and tried to solve them. In the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Supplements for Children, you presented statistics which are a key indicator of poverty and social inclusion in 2016 and on which the situation is extremely alarming. And that's exactly what I said earlier, now that you're in opposition, you're giving solutions that you weren't able to implement when you were supposed to. Today's topic, which is broad because not only does it include an increase in children's allowance but also a number of other issues such as why young families go away, why people can't afford one thing or don't give God two or more children, for this government children are the greatest wealth that we will through measures and show as we have already shown. I would like to remind you that in 2011, the number of unemployed was 305,000, in 2015, that figure rose to 320 thousand unemployed. That is, of course, one reason that leads to poverty. You mentioned four development investment pillars in your programme, tourism, energy, infrastructure and the environment as the key to GDP growth at an annual level of 2 to 4%. After four years of your rule, GDP fell by more than 6% in cumulative terms. I would stress that in addition to the fall in public debt that will continue during all forecasts, this government has raised minimum wages, has increased maternity benefits, has included a number of other positive shifts to address the problems of facilitating families, young people and children in the long term. But let's go back to your proposal that he had in front of him today. The increase in child allowances in three censorship groups, I agree that the allowance for children in the Republic of Croatia has a significant place in the family support system, as a form of monetary income for parents, adoptors, fosterers and other persons whose child is entrusted to the care and care of the child, but it must not be social assistance or should be tied to the property censorship. Your proposed approach to amendments to the Law of Supplement for children in which you point out the need to increase percentage points for the calculation of the amount of allowances for children for all three censor groups will not produce a significant effect in terms of increasing the number of users of allowances for children and the most intelligent supplement. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy has already established a working group to amend and supplement the Law on Extra for Children and is working intensively to address the problem of how to improve this segment. It is intended to consider the possibility of amending the relevant provisions of the Law on Supplements for children in the future legislative arrangements of this area. to amend Article 16 laying down the level of income census as a condition for the right to pay for children, in such a way as to increase the same from the current 50% of the budget base to 70% of the budget base if the number of beneficiaries of the child allowance and the optimal supplement is extended to the third and fourth children. It is true that the child's allowance has not changed for 17 years, but the government has therefore changed the part related to the allowance by increasing the upper threshold for children from 50 to 70% of the budget base and from 1663 kuna to 2328 kuna, and the number of users from 186,000 to 278,000 and 50% respectively, and the number of children in households also by about 50%. It is precisely such an extension of the range of potential users of allowances and the most innovative addition to concrete measures to reduce poverty that would provide additional assistance to families in enhanced child care. It is not true that our demographic restoration measures put pressure on families to give birth to more children, but certainly do. Like the measure to increase the maternity benefits of many, it has provided safety to raise children, and thus to increase the number of newborn children, this government is a vital national and demographic policy. We did not mention once that our task of direct and indirect measures of population policy is affecting precisely the rise of birth and with the long-term objective of balancing the age structure and maintaining the space balance of the population towards increasing the share of the younger population and this will be achieved through a series of specific objectives that are ultimately listed in the government programme itself. According to the Government's opinion, the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy is considering the possibility of accession to amendments to certain provisions of the Law on Extra for Children during that period and set up a working group for the making of amendments and additions to this law. For all of these reasons, the committees responsible did not accept the SDP proposal in accordance with the Committee's conclusions, and for the same reasons, the HDZ Representatives Club does not accept the above proposed Act amending the Law on Extra charge for children, with the Final Proposal for the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76189	First of all, the replica, first Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76190	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow you say the government takes care of the children, of course it's the interest of all of us that the government takes care of the children. And as for me as Mira Bulja, whom the people have chosen in this House, I am glad that the SDP has also proposed this law that will reduce poverty to a single point of survival for families, to children. I'll support this law, I have no problem. You're talking about children and you're aware here's your colleague Babic knows that there's literally no more crying for children in maternity homes in Dalmatia. There's more crying from parents at bus stations. Therefore, what is the reason now for anything to wait if we adopt this provisional proposal now, that this measure, regardless of what it is about the SDP, HDZ or any other party, the Living Wall, the pensioners. I don't have any problem with that as an advocate to vote for what's better for children, for family, for women. I know that right now you may be in the Istanbul Convention and that you are now above the organizations that the tribunal provides a billion kuna to pay them. But it would be much better to talk whether this suggests MOST, SDP, Miro Bulj's national representative who is that. I'll support this without any problem, because I think one wheel, and my colleague Babic knows what's in our neighborhoods. In your neighborhoods, one who comes from Dalmatia, one who comes from Slavonia. We don't have time to wait, this is Parliament. The government is slow, so in the adoption of these legal initiatives. We're expecting legal initiatives, and listening to Mr. Strmot who said your demographic measures were folklore. I listen to a young man of expertise. Therefore, we do not have representatives of other ways and models but that in this way, in this case, what the SDP Club has proposed or tomorrow the HDZ club or someone else I will support this armpit. There's no ideology here, there's an improvement in the life of children, families all over the area. One is a small wheel, but I expect you to support this at least when the government is not ready to refer this measure because all folklore is as Mr. Strmota said, we have witnessed it not long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76191	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76192	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Bulj, as I said, the government has formed meanings at the Ministry of Demography team that is currently working on the problem, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law, and it should start implementing around July 1st. So I also looked back, the SDP government had the opportunity to work on this problem for four years. And our government, in the name of its ministry, gave that part of the Ministry of Demography. And as far as I can tell, there may be some new coalition at the docks, or you've only been supporting some proposals coming from the SDP lately. [[Intruder Bull: Everything that is good I support.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76193	Thank you very much. Don't throw yourself away, please. There's already a few of us. Mr. Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76194	Thank you very much, Vice President. You took five seconds from me. [[Don't throw yourself away, please. There's no reason. Go there and talk, it's close, go there and talk.]] So what Mrs Maximchuk means, so when we talk about some proposals coming from the SDP order, I would ask you to stop calling for a term that's over. So, when we took power in 2011, there was a mess, nelado and chaos, and it took us a long time to establish with a lot of work order and to start growing. And then when the new government came, it came in a completely different situation than the one we had in 2011. And we had a procedure of excessive deficit, cutting budget items, and we simply had no room to raise any item. You've got it now. And in this budget, you've raised huge numbers from the plane item. Why didn't you direct that item to education and science, where I showed you statistically that in relation to all other budgets, the budget of education and science falls. So you now have the opportunity to increase the items and in this proposal we offer. If that proposal was not good for you, you could immediately suggest a better and more concrete one. We have sent in the procedure twenty laws aimed at increasing the quality of life in various segments of Croatian society. You've rejected everything with an excuse that you'll soon propose your own solutions. We don't see any of those solutions yet. And how successful you are in demographics, so the best evidence is your former secretary of state who publicly turned his back on the press to his minister, the entire government, and he said it was folklore, it's not doing anything and so the young continue to leave Croatia. I'll say it like I've said it many times. The best demographic measure for Croatia is that HDZ is not in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76195	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76196	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Jovanovic. I can't not look back on what the facts are. So the facts are that when you came to power, that what the number of unemployed was, what the number of unemployed was when you left power. Equally, I cannot help but look back that you then completely ignored and underestimated the warnings of demographics about drastic emigration from Croatia and all statistics, about people's problems, children's and multi-member families. However, this government, this ministry, does indeed work and implement various measures, and here we will soon see the proposals, I expect them as they said about July 1st, i.e. in the procedure, and I sincerely hope that they will work on the demographic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, which you and your Government have not done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76197	Thank you very much. Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76198	Thank you very much, esteemed representative Maximchuk. I'm really wondering why I won't hear anything in this House by HDZ agents. Namely, the party that handed over to Croatian corporations and foreign banks, which sold out everything that could sell out and robbed citizens of naked skin, today argues that it advocates poor people and young people. So please tell me, do you ever, I believe you don't drive on a bus, because you ever go to a bus station where people are waiting to go to Germany or to some foreign country and see what the number of these people is, please, I'll take you there tonight and tell them that HDZ takes care of the citizens, that you hear what those same citizens are going to say. On the other hand, you claim that unemployment is reduced in Croatia and unemployment is not reduced in Croatia, but people are moving away because if unemployment is reduced, it would be more employment but employment is no bigger than even employment is reduced. You claim that you are in favour of demographic measures, and since 2017 at least babies have been born in the last 150 years. So those numbers themselves deny you, so where are these demographic measures? So the HDZ government since 2015, why didn't you do something about it? You say the public debt is reduced, so in November 2017 public debt is higher than ever, it is 300 billion kuna. What kind of growth and improvement are you talking about? Is this 59 grand you've raised, is that the growth you refer to? So I can't really come to myself from the amount of demagogy, hypocrisy that I can hear from your parliamentary majority who have nothing to do with reality and Croatian reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76199	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76200	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, I'm going to ask you now do you know when the great emigrations from Croatia began? Yes, he left in 2013 and we're not happy, of course we're not happy with it, but this government and this ministry are doing their best to stop it. Of course demographics are not a problem that can be solved in one day, he started much earlier and likely to take much longer. And of course I go to bus stations often, and I'm just a child of parents who have worked outside my whole life and I've lived here, so here I know what these problems are, and of course we feel for it, and that we would like it to go a lot faster and easier, but you know that there are a lot of problems that the government and the ministry are going to go to solve these burning and key problems as soon as possible, and they've already done it in a good work, I've already mentioned in those measures where this ministry took part and where the demographic image is, or where we've helped in demographic problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76201	Thank you, too. And finally, Mr Miranda Mrssic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76202	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, when you have no measure of your own then it is clear that the easiest thing to criticise is what the former government has done, you haven't done anything and you've done even less than nothing, so you've done minus zero, even though one non-existent number. Therefore, saying that you will establish a commission, as I recall, Prime Minister Plenkovic, the undecided prime minister has determined to set up a committee for demographics, among other things this commission was founded there 2 years ago and no measure of the commission has come to life. It was clear to all of us that cash compensation would not lead to a rise in birthrights and it proved true. Last year we have one of the best-born records in Croatia. And these are the facts that you should have looked back on this bill of ours. Our bill of law did not go to criticise you for not doing anything, but it was just going to help make things better in Croatia. And when we talk about emigration, then you mention 2013 and you don't mention 2016, 2017 where emigration has accelerated even more than those crisis years. So calling on the past means you have no idea what we'd do in the future. And our bill of law goes after it to help you, to make you finally do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76203	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76204	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Mrsic, I had no intention of hurting anyone at all, I was just talking about some facts. Yes, unfortunately, the eviction continued, and equally you can't say that the government did nothing. So it started with a minimum wage increase, an increase in maternity benefits, housing credits, that's just a few measures. Of course, I've already told Mr. Bunjec that we'd like everything to go much faster and much better, and I'm sure that on July 1st when it comes to application, the law of our ministry says that we'll all welcome him and that at that time he will be supported by both the right and the left parts of the assembly, that there should be no dispute about it. And of course, I'm telling you, it wasn't my intention to hurt anyone, I was just mentioning some kind of factual condition that they really were.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76205	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the representatives' clubs, now it's Mr Branimir Bunjac, in front of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76206	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here we are talking about today's important topic, I would dare say perhaps the most important topic this week, namely child poverty and ways to help them. We can see that this topic is not interested in parliamentary representatives, which is very sad, but only 12 of us are here. We see that it is not interested in the media, and this essentially shows what the role of the Croatian Parliament today is, or what low branches it has fallen to after nearly 3 decades of its existence. Instead of dealing with child poverty that goes on more than 20% according to official statistics, we deal with records, square names, we deal with busts, past councils, conventions, we deal with Ustashas in Argentina, Chetniks in Dinara, Partizans in Kozari, I don't know, etc., and now if I went to talk about it, maybe a meeting would be full, maybe get a place in a diary, maybe it would be on the cover of a portal, but I'm talking about child poverty, and you can tell yourself that. That is, therefore, your Croatian reality. I, by the way, must say, have printed all the conventions adopted by the Republic of Croatia since 1990, have one 400 of these conventions, at least one 10 of them are involved in protecting children and protecting children's rights, and what do we have from that? We have to talk about child poverty today. There, so you know it. And why is that? Because in the Republic of Croatia, institutions simply don't do their jobs. They do not do their jobs, the judiciary does not do its job, and the Croatian economy is destroyed to the ground. And in vain now we're talking about child poverty, and this law is being passed, and I doubt that something important will be solved because our society needs ideological topics, it needs ideological divisions, it takes left and right to be able to evoke as soon as they hear Tito or I don't know, someone else, that they can talk about it for weeks, and children just keep starving. And that's the difference, you know, between the Living Wall and you. We have these topics that we're talking about as a priority, and that's why it's not hard for us to wait, as most MPs, if it takes till midnight to say something about it. Namely, I would like to warn that child poverty is a huge problem in the Republic of Croatia, and I would also like to remind once again of the serious analysis that they are doing, therefore, scientific institutions in HR, such as the Economic Institute which, therefore, warns that the poverty of children in the Republic of Croatia is on the rise, as suggested by the proposer Alfirev. In Croatia, one family member lives with 830 kuna per month. With 830 kuna, no normal person can survive in a literal sense. So with 830 kuna, then, you can't cover some of the most basic needs like food and drink. Following this, we have a situation in the Republic of Croatia that 68% of Croatian citizens are forced to borrow money. So we could say the vast majority and these citizens have to borrow money in various ways. One is that they are in debt to minuses on the current, to take cards, to take loans, and those who cannot borrow it, therefore, from their loved ones, from children, children from parents, brothers, etc. As many as 66% of Croatian citizens are unable to regularly pay for directors, and at least once in their lives have faced warnings or worse, with exclusions of basic services. Even 54% of Croatian citizens, watch out now, addressed the institutions for help. These institutions were the Centre for Social Work, the Red Cross, the Caritas, social trades, popular cuisine and local administration. So more than half of Croatian citizens are looking for some kind of, we can say it freely, social aid. More than half of Croatian employees must work further to ensure the most basic existence. Since even then they fail to meet their basic needs, many of them must give up. And what do they give up? First they give up food. They give up food, then give up clothes, then give up paying bills, and also rest, entertainment, and culture. What may only be positive in all of this, such as some kind of happiness in the accident that many give up both cigarettes and alcohol. Those who have loans usually have to pay 40% of their salary for them, and we saw, therefore, that it is a large majority of Croatian citizens. Many of the Croatian citizens, about a third, are forced to produce their own food or have to get it from relatives. So it's not just money, it's food. Even 44% of parents, a huge number, eat less so their children have enough. I believe you've heard stories for sure if you've had any questions, that children eat in the house first, and parents eat what's left. What's left of it, then is eaten by the parents. They don't eat at the same time, and especially not parents to take first, they don't. It is very sad that 21%, therefore, of Croatian citizens go to bed hungry. Hungry! And many of them don't know what to give the kids tomorrow morning to eat. They don't know. A lot of people don't have bread, they don't have milk, and then they invent what kind of stuff, recipes like, I don't know, kilos of flour and water, so something's being prepared I don't know, glues etc. That's all the stories you can hear, I repeat. Ours, Croatian stories. It's sad to hear that 66% of children didn't attend kindergarten regularly. So, only one third of children can go from some manger age to enrollment in school, constantly walking to kindergarten. Most parents must at least suspend kindergarten and hand over their children to care for their parents, usually or to others. There's a big defect going on in society. I'm telling you, among other things, and as a man who worked for 20 years in class, where I noticed that children who are already coming to school, be careful, at the age of six, you have a significant difference in their development and abilities. Normally, a child who, for example, did not go to kindergarten, did not socialize with peers may be more shy, less communicative than children who did. A child who had the opportunity to play sports or I don't know, by moving in nature, etc. is more motoristic than, say, a child that wasn't able to do that. A child who attended preschool may be better able to count to 20 or even know some letters than they are not. There are already terrible differences, and here our society is very much losing and creating an obvious social imbalance. It is also a question of children, whether someone will eat fruits and vegetables or be forced to eat flour, frozen food, and so on. It's sad that half the kids don't celebrate their birthday because they have nothing to celebrate with, nothing to celebrate better, half of them can't buy regular shoes. I also can't pay for any trips, extracurricular activities, the sea I can only dream of. You can imagine that Croatia, which is a maritime country, 75% of people do not go to sea, I personally know, and I believe you people who are 20 years old have never been to sea. I read one morning the post of a Facebook defender who said I'm going to blow myself up with a bomb, my son's 20th birthday never in my life took him to sea. Isn't that terrible? So what do we have? In Croatia, we have this fact that when a solution comes out that offers at least as much mitigation of this problem then the ruling majority says no, it is written by the SDP that we cannot accept it. And we from the Living Wall suggested a few months ago the Bank Taxation Act to take 0.6% of banks, you watch how small a percentage, 0.6%, and to reroute to demographic measures. The government ordered it, so it's normal for you to take the rich and give it to the poor, so where is it? Well, in Croatia, the only thing that can be taken away from the poor and given to the rich is that it's not possible to work differently. In Croatia, the only thing that can be further tightened is the belt, and it is not loose, and it is very sad. It is very regrettable that banks have 400 billion kuna assets, that banks have had a 6% growth rate from 1994 to today during the time of the biggest crisis had a 6% growth while Croatia had GDP in 2008 minus 9%, they grew 6%. And they didn't let us rule to take just 0.6% of them, not because we're mean to them, but just because some solidarity is achieved in society, some kind of social justice, and, according to the Constitution, Croatia is the number one social state. Further to say, 55% of children according to official statistics never go to the movies, 43% no computer, no computer in the information age, 25% of children do not have their own bed, sleep either with parents or with brothers or even on the floor, 18% of children do not have more than two pairs of pants, and 75% of parents fail to give children a larger allowance of 50 kuna per week, and many even kuna. It is therefore important to point out that children do not have their own learning space, that they do not have for activities such as education, toys, social games or picture books. Therefore, gentlemen of Parliament, the public, since there is no representative, this is a Croatian problem, it is a problem, not who is the grandson of a Ustasha or a Partisan. Stop dating the public. Let's go solve this problem, let's deal with this if we have until morning, not just at six o'clock. And many workers work until morning hungry to ensure, and we find it hard to listen to these topics at all, come to the Parliament, let alone do something about it. It is very sad, it is a degradation of Croatian society that shows how deeply we are in crisis. And I can only say in the end since my time is running out, we will support this proposal, absolutely we will support it because it is a good proposal and we do not care who wrote it. It could have been written by HDZ as well as SDP, but we also want to say that this is just a drop in the sea of problems. The child's allowance is only one of the measures to be taken by the company in general would cure it. Among other things, it is necessary to address the problem of the Implementing Law, the enforcement of the blockades, the protection of pregnant women, the issue of corruption and public procurement in order for young people to have a perspective and to restore trust in institutions, their state and politics in general, it is necessary to increase the members of the HNS, you have ministries, separations for science and education. If the HDZ reduces these investments once again and you can say that it just doesn't make sense anymore, give it some courage regardless of all the interests you have, so don't say it like that, use at least a little bit of your influence when you've already entered the government under such conditions. That's it, time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76207	It hasn't expired yet, but good. Thank you very much. Now the State Secretary, Mrs. Maria Pleikosa, will have five minutes to answer the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76208	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I would like to point out once again that the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements to Children, whose holder is the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, has been drawn up and is in the process before reference to the government's procedure. A previous assessment of the law has been made so far, through e- Consultation a public consultation has been completed for the previous evaluation, the opinion of the Law Office has been requested and a draft draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Supplements for Children has been drawn up. As our colleague pointed out, we expect the law to apply from 1 July 2018. We have assessed that the proposed approach to amending the Law on Extra charge for children in which the SDP club promoter indicates the need to increase percentage points for the calculation of the amount of extras for children for all three censor groups would not produce a significant effect in terms of increasing the number of users of extras for children, as well as an intrinsic supplement. The draft draft Act amending and supplementing the Law of Supplements for children would extend the range of potential users of child benefits, as well as the most intelligent supplement, thus providing additional assistance to families in enhanced child care and producing a significant positive social impact. By improving the status of future users of extras for children, who will be able to use this right as well as the effect, in relation to the overall innovative movement, as well as maintaining and raising the social security of families with dependent children. According to the proposed changes, an increase in the number of extras for children is expected to be up to 50% and up to 150,000 children covered by these changes. So with a number of 280, almost 286000 would increase to about 435000 children. Following the above mentioned Government of the Republic of Croatia did not support the adoption of a proposal for a Law amending the Law on Extra charge for children with the final draft law proposed by the SDP Representatives Club to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76209	Thank you very much. And now we have the final word, Mrs. Maria Alfirev, the legislator of this law. On behalf of the SDP? On behalf of the SDP. The promoter is SDP and Mrs Maria Alfirev is a rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76210	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. So here's another note. So, we've heard a lot of things here, a lot of exposure and thank you to everyone who participated in this debate. Of course, I am pleased that on the side of the opposition, therefore, all the parties involved in this debate have received confirmation that we have proposed a law, which has been recognised as a possible solution to the mitigation of child poverty. And that was the intensity of this bill of ours. So, once again, this law that we are proposing is going in this direction, that, to be the answer to the current situation, to one growing poverty, that is, the risk of child poverty, which, according to data from 2016 is growing and one large number of children are at risk, and that is what we need to be concerned about. Why did we go on this proposal, because I'm going to say it simply, layishly, every kuna, means something to that family. So an increase of 200 kn in nominal amount or 100 kn will mean a lot to that family. What the Secretary of State said, yes, we will have opportunities to refer to your proposal, which will come from the government, but we should note, however, that this proposal will include more coverage, however, there will be no increase in the amount itself. And that's the key. So those families that are already at great risk of poverty, they won't feel it, that improvement won't feel it. They won't get through this law any better. On the other hand, it really saddens me, that now on this law, therefore, the ruling party is, therefore, being referred in a way, that it actually questions what was done or what was not done, that it does not view this law as a measure, which will actually bring better for 25,000 children. 258,000 children, I think I put that number right, that's a big number, and that's what these are kids that this law applies to. And what does it actually have, what is the opinion of the demographic policy of the ruling, your party, is actually all said by your former secretary of state. He said everything. In a simple dictionary he said it was folklore. So, you'll have opportunities to speak, but still from your ranks came a simple word, it's a folklore and there it is, which is further added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76211	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alfirev, I am concluding the debate and we will vote when the famous conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76212	Final draft law amending the Law on child allowance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 251. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Extra charge for children whose adoption was not supported by the Government as well as by parliamentary working bodies. I find that the proposal has not received the required number of votes 16 for, 2 abstentions, 73 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76213	The last proposal of the Law today, and for your information, we will be working until 19:00 if we don't finish before, is: - Proposal of the Law on Professional Pensions, first reading, P.Z. No. 276. The SDP representative club is again proposed on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. The proposal for a debate on this item of the agenda shall apply to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law. The government delivered an opinion. Would the motioner like to give an opening statement to the motioner, Mr Miranda Mrsic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76214	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we are not many, respected Madam Secretary of State, dear assistant minister. Today, here's the time when apparently the ruling majority or parliamentary majority decided to put this law under discussion in fear of some kind of media echo of this law. He doesn't have any media echo and this isn't the law that's the law of the left, the law of the right, this is neither the blue nor the red law, nor the yellow, nor any other. This is one law that should allow people who work in dangerous jobs who are known to be unable to endure their entire working life to get a decent pension and to continue their working life in some other easier places with this decent pension. This law proposes the exercise of pension insurance rights, so all those who have a job internship in an increased duration, what we call a well-infected work internship. These jobs are classified in 4 categories, depending on the degree of difficult working conditions and the nature of the jobs they perform and then the corresponding increase in internships, that means what has been so far, 12 18, 12 16, 12 15 and 12 14. This law has no intention of arbitration and determines what occupations should be included in this law, that is, matter governed by another law, that is, matter to be considered primarily by professions, so professions, trade unions, employers, medical work, health protection and safety at work. And what we have to say right now is that the government's policy is entirely wrong in this area and it is entirely wrong for the government's direction, with the aim of abolishing the benefits of the job, to reduce the number of jobs with the benefits of the undetermined job so that the undecided Prime Minister Plenkovic can be awarded Brussels. But it won't help Croatian citizens with that advocacy. In fact, the intensity of this law is to enable these people to have a decent pension in the pension system. If it goes with the idea to lift the benefits of a work internship, which according to at least the media statements by Minister Pavic, who is along with Prime Minister Plenkovic's boyfriend from Brussels, is entirely guilty. We in Croatia obviously have occupations that we know are no longer available, let's say we no longer have miners, we no longer have high-boilers, but on the other hand we have occupations that are not in the system of benefactored work experience for which they should be admitted to being introduced into a well-infected work experience, so that the idea of abolishing and reducing the number of places to which the benefited work experience is to blame. Only one example, the unfettered interns have firemen, but they do not, for example, have ambulance drivers, ambulance doctors and ambulance technicians. They're exposed to very difficult psychological efforts, the one in the ambulance needs to know what's going on. And they don't have an underprivileged job experience because sometimes that part has gone away. Let's just say cabin staff working in airplanes also doesn't have an underprivileged internship because someone once lost sight that given their efforts there, it's unlikely that they'll live a lifetime or a lifetime working in the plane's cabin. Therefore, we wanted to offer this law already when the Government has not offered a solution so far, to offer a solution for the benefited employment experience in Croatia. The system of professional pensions goes to those who have the right to an underprivileged job internship have the right to a professional pension. So far in the system it looked like this: a fireman who would be 50 or 52 years old, if he didn't have enough time to retire he was staying in a professional fire department until that condition, but he couldn't do his job, he simply psychophysically couldn't do it and he was waiting for a pension in the fire department. This led to an average of 50-year-old firefighters' age, that we couldn't renew troops, that young people couldn't get into the system, because we just didn't make a way out of the system without getting a decent pension. Therefore, we have proposed this law: all those who enter into the law from the general system have an unfettered work experience, just to point out, drivers, installers, ballet dancers and others not to list them. Security guards from the general system according to special laws, so all those employed in demining operations, professional firefighters, crew members of the ship. Also, civil servants, according to special laws, are active military personnel, police officers, officials in the intelligence system, officials in the judiciary. Thus far, according to certain legal decisions, they have had the right to retire before, therefore, after certain years of employment have been completed. The conditions for leaving and the right to retire are standardised and according to this Bill proposal, therefore, those who work in places that we believe that 18 months should be recognised in 12 months, leave with 50 years of life, those who are in category 2, 16 months in effective 12 months, 53 years and 4 months, for those who are in jobs where we recognise 15 months in 12 by 55 years and those whom we recognise 14 months in 12 months is 56 years and 8 months of life, so, in the workplace. With this we allow these people when they enter the system, to know that with that age they will come out of the system. But there's one more thing we can do. We allow the fire commander to be able and planned already when and at what time should he begin to educate the ability to renew the fireman who will leave and that year into retirement. It also allows the interior minister to know when and how many officers in which part of Croatia, at which time he will retire. What we now have to take into account the financial problems and the financial inability to make severance payments to police officers, the police minister simply won't let people retire because it's cheaper for him. If they retire, then they'll have to pay large severances that are on collective terms. The law is very simple and we feel that we are sorry that the Government has not accepted the idea of this Law, although it has already been talking about the benefits of a work experience for a year. What does this professional retirement make possible? It allows work and pension payments at the same time, which so far has not been possible. When you retired, you retired and had no right to work. So this law allows the user of a professional pension, with at least 20 years of internships, so an effective internship, during which, therefore, if employed outside the system, will receive 50% of pensions at his salary. The one who's 25 years of insurance, if he gets a job, he'll get a salary like that, 70% of his pension. A soldier who has been on the contract for 15 years and more, if employed outside the system, then 25% of the professional pension is paid. I note that soldiers go and have to go very early out of the system. A professional soldier when he's 40 years old, if he's not perspective and he's not progressing in his professional career, he's out of the system. What was happening now, if they were getting a contract up to 14 years old, so they couldn't get caught by the Pension Insurance Act. Also, if the user of a professional pension continues to work in the system, then he does not have the right to get a professional pension, but gets his salary until he gets out of the system. We have also resolved this Law and the issue of disability and family pensions because you need to know that you have people who, during your work in these places, have certain diseases and that they should also be protected and given a decent pension. Therefore, the disability pension is defined as a professional pension during a job-to-work relationship with an increased period of insurance, but in accordance with the provisions and general pension system, and if the disability pension is made after that period, it shall be achieved exclusively in accordance with the provisions applicable to the general pension system. This Law also determines the family pensions that are made according to the terms of the general system. The calculation of the pension that would belong to the insurance undertaking at the time of death under this Act, that is, his pension that he used. Therefore, professional retirement has all the features and pensions from therefore, systems that are not from this well-favoured work experience. We understand that there are now legal solutions in other parts of the system and this law provides for a 10-year period of transition to the full application of the proposed system where all those in the system will be able to choose whether they prefer to retire under this Act or the law at which they were found at the time this Law entered into force. We also propose that pensions be determined on the basis of the salaries made in the most favourable consecutive 5 years. Now, in the system, when we talk about the system of therefore active military personnel, police officers and so on, people who are in the intelligence system, their pension is determined as the 10 most favourable years, but there are two, so two cuts, 5 and 10%. With this law we take the five most favourable years and there are no reductions that exist under this Law. If the insurance company leaves the system before it can make a professional pension, at the time of exercising the right to pension under the general rule, it will then be calculated in proportion to the part of the professional pension and will be included in the total pension of the proportion. We also follow what happens in life, that a certain number of people enter the system, be a certain number of years, come out of the system, end their working life in another part of the system, so, go into the private sector, go into the real sector, and therefore, their pension will be calculated with that part that they earned both outside the system and with the pension that was in this system. If, after obtaining the right to pension, a person is employed, then his pension will be determined as, therefore, he will have the right to determine his pension and after he has completed his working life outside the system and then he can receive a share of the pension for that part of the period when he is not in the benefited working period. When we talk about the necessary means, one of the things that this law has and cleared up is that under the Pension Insurance Act, we don't have 5600 persons who have the right to a professional pension, because there was also a part of the defender, who has a pension on the other system. So according to those estimates, and according to what we got, and what we could get, an employee of military personnel, about 700 a year, is entitled to a professional pension. Since we count that 50% of them, between 30 and 50% of them, will be employed outside the system, this system simply shows that their pensions can be financed in part from what they will pay in the system, because they will also work outside the system. So they virtually, themselves, pay part of their pension, working outside the system. According to the Pension Insurance Act, it's about 2600 users, annual professional pensions. In total, according to our budgets, which we have 330 users of professional pensions a year, which will earlier exercise rights, according to what we could estimate. It's about expenditure, so budget cost, 118 million 418 thousand 821 kuna. However, the real cost, the budget, is 85 million 702461 kuna, as part of it is financed from the contributions these people paid. We're sorry the government rejected this system, the system is good. It's not the only one, so we're not the exception that all the countries have. And we offer the government a way to solve the problem of the benefited internship in Croatia, because it will face major problems, if it goes to the elimination of the benefited internship, let's say, with the tram driver, bus driver, etc. and he probably won't want to allow these rights to be extended. With this law, which has all EU countries, in one way or another, we allow people to go into a professional pension, to spend time in the system, and to achieve an internship of increased duration through the categorisation of jobs, the possibility of the former retired under conditions set out for the exercise of the right to professional retirement is allowed. According to the proposed model, the user of a professional pension could stay in the system and work until the maximum age for a professional pension, and special staff will be extremely assured of staying in the system and later exercise of the right to a professional pension. It has united the possibility of continuing work outside the system, using part of a professional retirement pension that has so far not been possible, except in the general pension system. The calculation of the pension would be more favourable than previously, given that pensions would be calculated on the basis of a five-year average, while up to now the most favourable 10-year average would remain the credit system of the calculation that is compatible with the general pension system. Also, as regards the first and second pillars themselves, following talks with the trade unions, which gave absolute support to this law, we felt it was necessary and in the second reading we would suggest that the user of the pension may choose whether his pension will be from the first or second pillars or benefit from a pension, a professional pension, because for some interests, such as flight controllers or pilots, it is preferable for them to have a pension from the first and second pension pillar. This law allows the use of a professional pension, stay in the world of work and achieve a proportionate part of the pension according to the general regulation. We regret that the government has not recognised the Benefit system and, therefore, has expressed a negative opinion, but the Benefit Statutory System cannot be resolved in a way that it is abolished or to make restrictions, it can only be resolved pro-actively, to edit the system, and the Professional Pensions Act is system editing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76215	Okay, thank you very much. Would the government official like to further explain this opinion, Government, please, Mrs. Buric, please, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76216	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal for a law on professional retirement submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP on 23 January 2018. This proposal for a law would introduce a parallel system of pension rights, i.e. a new type of pension insurance rights, and workers working on jobs and occupations with so-called ‘retirement’. Benefited working time or period of insurance with increased duration. In this respect, the current pension system is being violated and it would be very difficult to determine in advance the amount of pension especially in the case where the worker worked on different levels of benefit jobs and especially for combined pensions. The proposal for a law cannot conclude whether the method of calculating the pension is more favourable, for example. for police officers from the conditions laid down in Article 6. The law on the rights of pension insurance of active military personnel leading to legal uncertainty therefore it is necessary, above all, to lay down a clear way of calculating the amount of pension for both police officers and all others so that each of them can clearly determine the amount of their pension as well as the time of retirement. In addition, this bill would reduce the existing level of pension rights for active military personnel, police officers, authorised officials, pyrotechnicians and sailors. According to the current data, the average pension achieved according to the special regulation for the persons involved is 3,656 and this proposal, and on a rough calculation, it would fall approximately by 1,200 kuna and amount to 2,400. I would like to point out once again that this is an overall rough calculation because the bill does not make it clear and unequivocally prescribed methods of calculation, given that each category has its own specificities and that each person needs to be approached individually because the pension is individual law. In addition, the SDP proposal does not essentially examine the fundamental and real need to apply the increased internship, but only the modality of the exercise of new rights in the situation found. However, it is not appropriate to implement this without prior, professional verification of criteria and conditions for the right to retire with so-called pension. a well-infected work force. We believe that the new system should be based on work protection and prevention and only where it is not possible to ensure the elimination of harmfulness to labour assurances should ensure that the right to a well-favoured work experience is achieved. In the Ministry of Labour and Pension System, activities are under way, aimed at revising the current system of the benefits of the internship in accordance with the existing conditions for which a deep analysis is necessary, which requires a laboratory which does not have the basis for this bill. And it should be said that condicio son qua non adoption of such a law is precisely a deep analysis in order to respond to the bill's real needs of society, in this case business and occupations with the benefits of work. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also considers that the proposed law does not fully and adequately govern the rights of certain groups of insurance companies whose rights are now governed by several laws. In addition, this proposal is also widely affected by the existing pension system in an unsuitable and complex way with unclear effects. So, without previous analyses, without elaborates, the Institute of Professional Pensions and its versions and the combination of which is a total of 5. In particular, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out that given the importance and specificity of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, their rights should be governed by a special regulation as so far as they are regulated. However, it is not relevant to prescribe the transposition of Directive 79/7 of 1978 since the Pension Insurance Act is already in conformity with that Directive. We also point out that incorrect data are related to increased expenditures of the state budget because they are listed in almost the same amounts of 29 million kuna and 70 thousand kuna for 2018 and for 2019 and 2020, and the actual expenditure would have a significantly higher growth trend. In addition, it should also be mentioned that it is not true that the Government is abolishing professions and jobs, however, in this context it would only quote the NPR (National Reform Plan) from 2015 when the Minister of Labour was just a proposing, and then on the 63rd page, related to improving the efficiency of the pension system, says: "The list of interests and jobs where the internship is accounted for with an increased duration with the aim of reducing the number of these interests by 50%." So, when it comes to abolishing, you are likely to refer to this document in 2015 because the Government of Andrej Plenkovic has never mentioned that something has already been abolished, but we are just talking about deep analyses and elaborat as the basis for further actions in line with the real needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76217	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76218	If the esteemed secretary had looked at the NPR data then she would have known that 50% means a reduction in the number of places that don't exist, so far you have interests that are listed there, which no longer exist, 50% of them no longer exist, and so that's one of the things that's written about it, but what we wanted to do is simply solve the problem of the benefits of the internship, 50% does not mean abolishing, meaning reviewing, that means that the number of professions that are in those tables in the Beneficited Train Act is moving. On the other hand, you're not telling the truth when you're calculating the pensions of military personnel and police officers. 10 most favourable years on average, you have this and in HZMO statistics 3996 kuna and 39 is their average pension. With these five most favourable years, she would be 4342 kunas. So don't deceive with numbers that aren't correct, therefore five of the most favourable years, and that's what the unions have admitted to us in a union meeting. Why did you say that? Because you forgot that their pensions decreased by 5 or 10% after the calculation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76219	Mrs. Buric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76220	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Grouchy. So I'm going to mention once again, so when you talk about abolishing the profession and related to the benefits of the job, that's what your government wrote in the national reform plan in 2015 when you say you're going to "audit the list of professions and jobs where the internship counts with increased duration, and all with the aim of reducing the number of these interests by 50%". So it's written on page 63, if you need to remind here's the material. And as for the calculation that you were talking about, so the calculation didn't go down with no, the calculation was made in HZMO. I also said in the opening speech that it was a rough calculation because it is necessary to clearly specify the method of calculation, and these parameters are not given here, so they are not clearly and unequivocally prescribed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76221	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Now there are 1,2,3,4,5,6 who can speak the 7th alone I could continue even in the cafe, but I will give the word to Mr. Anti Babic. Mr. Miro Bulj, maybe that's why I didn't give him my word. Mr. Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76222	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected secretary of state with associates. I will try to be brief, given that both the promoter and what he was saying, but also on behalf of the ministry or government, a respected secretary of state that I would not repeat myself, in the very introduction, what the proposer, or our colleague Mrsic, was saying, and regarding the maintenance of this agenda point. I think with the schedule we're getting we know in advance, so it's impossible to sum up all the points of the agenda in an hour or two, it's clear to everyone and I don't know why colleagues are calling on such things, I don't think that's correct. And as for the SDP proposals themselves, I really must commend my colleague Mrsic, I think that this is now the third or fourth proposal of ownership in the retirement homes, then the 27% increase and now this proposal of the Law on Professional Pensions, we had a little proposal for a child's allowance, so all the praises. And I love that constructiveity, and I think it's something good and in that Anglo-Saxon world, especially in German, they say to Parliament that when you're satisfied with it all rejoices, but when a man suggests it can only hold those who can keep it working awake, and in this case it's good for the government to think about it, that it's kind of a push of the government so people like to say it. So I'm just going to brief what we got on the Pension System Committee, and then the union representatives were actually talking about this proposal of yours, which pointed out that this proposed law regulates pension insurance obligations for insurance workers working on jobs and interests on which the insurance internship is accounted for with increased duration, and you said so in the shortest words that even those who go into retirement can be able to be in a working relationship or that they themselves finance their income as you said it. The government of the Republic of Croatia has, of course, given its opinion and has not accepted this proposal, it is to me that it has not repeated certain things in the eye of what is involved in the seriousness of a bill. I'm not saying he's inconclusive, but they refer to incorrect data related to increased expenditures under this bill of law that are... 29 million kuna for each year with you standing up and saying now about 118 million kuna, which is four times that. However, regardless of which any draft law that goes into the Croatian budget is attached to the PFU form and the Budget Law stipulates that the draft law as a fiscal assessment of the implications for the budget must contain proposals to cover the increased expenditures of the budget. So it's about seriousness or finance. I will try to cut short on this proposal and say that the rights of demining employees are fully governed by special laws because, given the specificity of this category of insurance companies, they can be granted the very level of rights governed by these specific laws, and the State is in charge of special care. The Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons and Police Officers and Authorised Officials has been regulated by a special system of generation solidarity for active military personnel and for police officers and authorised officials with a certain level of rights appropriate to those categories of users. The right to an age pension and that should be said over and over again, is actually achieved by 65 years of life and at least 15 years of retirement, regardless of gender, reduction of age, depending on the degree of increase in internships and length of work carried out on these full-time jobs. I'm not going to talk here about the increase of 12 15, 12 16 and 12 18, I think that's already said, I want to say that the rights of the ship's crew's insurance company are fully governed by the Maritime Code and we seem to have spoken of it in these months or two times. And when we have implemented certain directives and these rights are actually comprehensively arranged for sailors and crews of ships, and precisely because of the specificity of that category of insurance, such as the insurance internship based on the period so-called. clean sailing, and there's no reason for him to stand out as such in a special law. As regards the alleged, as far as I have seen on the need for a uniform arrangement of pension insurance rights, already after the economic recovery programme introduced by the 2010 government programme, in fact, special rules approximated to the general system under the law, Mr Hrelja, were the highest pension law, if I remember that pension reduction law, or certain and achieved according to the specific rules of pension insurance, which we also belong to, and some further incurring would be in line with the needs of ensuring a decent age, i.e. social security in the event of the resulting risk of age, reduction or loss of employment, death of insurance workers. The regulation of a specific age limit and the possibility of working and using a pension, in this case, is not an acceptable solution, given that these categories of insurance actually allow for that earlier retirement, precisely because of the inability to work after a certain age in these specific occupations. Of course, it can be spoken of for those who are not deprived of the possibility whether it is possible or not. And it is not acceptable, too, for users to determine an increase of 27%, which is actually recognised as an add-on to pension under the Retirement Law reached and determined under the Pension Insurance Act, and the supplement is determined exclusively by the pension achieved and determined exclusively under the general regulation. Due to the gradual expansion of the accounting period throughout the working life and the reduction of pension differences achieved before and after 1 January 1999 under the General Regulation. Yes, Mrsic spoke about the bill where it is proposed to actually determine the most favourable five-year salary average since 1 January 1970, i.e. according to a more favourable calculation compared to the general regulation, which is again contrary to the law on the pension allowance itself, certain, or achieved exclusively under the Pension Insurance Act. In addition, according to your proposal for a law, it should be said that according to the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, Police Officers and Authorised Officials, pensions are determined from a 10-year average of the salaries of persons in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. police officers in the Ministry of Interior and employees in special duties and powers in the security and intelligence system of the Republic of Croatia. So, it may still have to be pointed out that the inability to apply several laws at the same time for the same categories of insurance companies and that I am not taking time away from our next colleagues who are going to participate in the debate and that we could finish by 7:00. It should also be pointed out that it is not clear for what reason this Article 5, which you have proposed regarding the Law on the Rights of Pension Insurance of Active Military Persons, which you know to enable, in fact, the Supreme Commander of the Republic of Croatia to, in fact, by his decision, the active military person who has exceptional merits, can actually improve, that is, if there is some other very important reason before fulfilling the conditions of obtaining the rights laid down by that special law. The very law of the proposal on professional retirement is intruding, we are also in the Constitutional Powers of the President of the Republic of Croatia and perhaps should therefore also ask the opinion of the Office of the President himself. I still have to point out, and it would be incorrect not to say that, and here with us is the assistant director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, Mr. Bulaja, with whom I have spoken on several occasions about these things, I have asked him to have precise clarifications. I deliberately did not speak to other colleagues because of the shortness of time and respect. We have actually listed some 12 points in which we explain in detail what you have stated in your bill and, of course, not just because of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that HDZ will not accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76223	Thank you very much. And it was a replica? Yeah, you're right about Mrs. Alfirev and Mrsic. Here you go, Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76224	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. A colleague of Grandma's, like this. So definitely, of course, this fellow Mrsić initiative is extremely good, and now, as much as it takes to change this debate, we will see it in another reading, but I think you should support it, too, and what I would like to say to you, so you mentioned seriousness. So I definitely think we should really talk about seriousness. And when we talk about seriousness, then for me, every problem is seriously a man. We're actually talking and working on it here, and we should work to pass those laws that respond to people's problems. Definitely to the problems of almost every man and cover all those areas that are not covered, which is exactly what this Law does, it suggests. You mentioned it, I think you said you disagreed with it, and I'll tell you that exactly, I have the opposite of you, and it's about working military personnel, police officers, authorized officials currently under the Pension Insurance Rights Act not being able, therefore, to work further after their retirement. Well, I'll just mention it, so, in a conversation with a man, with a living man who retired for an article. The 6th of this Law, which passed, went to the Homeland War at the age of 19, after which he was an active military person, passed all the battlefields, an active military person educated in America, so one officer now retired with 3600 kuna. More seas, therefore, and all problems, there are children at school and so on, he is currently forbidden to work. It can't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76225	Time, time, time. I'll be rigid around time because we've set ourselves some kind of clock. Would you like to respond? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76226	Thank you, Vice President. So when we talk about seriousness, if you followed my debate, I just said for which reasons and in what way it is not possible to accept this bill. I commended Mr. Mrsic, given his suggestions and we see it in fact, since I am in charge of the club's name, very this one, I am careful when something comes from your club that we can explain it in a correct, just way in the Croatian Assembly using our institutions in the Republic. You referred to one case of an active military person, as I understand it, who has certain qualifications, is retired and unable to work. Now who can work? He may end his pension and work, but at the time he does not get a pension, what Mr. Mrsic suggested. Therefore, the intensity is that he can receive a pension and can additionally work, i.e. finance his pension from his contributions. But I'm glad that you're standing up for this pension and pension system problem and you have a very good mentor sitting next to you, who can teach you a lot of things. HZMO is a very high-quality and strong institution in Croatian society and I am sure that they are very well monitoring all the events that take place in the social life of the Republic of Croatia and detecting certain problems and proposing certain or proposals of the law or things that go in favour of the pensioners. For that reason, thank you for your interest in this topic, and Mr. Hrelja's mentor can explain this more and better to you than I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76227	Okay. Second replica, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76228	Thank you very much. Thank you for your commendation. I'm only doing my job as a parliamentary representative. But let's make a little reference to the papers, and since we talked about the papers, I'll read a passport. It says: more than half of the jobs and occupations will be abolished or the rate of increase in internships will be reduced, and the Institute will redefine the reduction of age-limits for the acquisition of age-retired pension rights, depending on the training of insurance in an effective duration carried out at the workplace where the job insurance rate is calculated with an increased duration. The following amendments are expected to continue to remain in the world of work and to reduce the inflow of future pensions of these categories of insurance undertakings, but also to reduce the amount of contributions resulting in the elimination or reduction of the bonification. This is 2017, the State Secretary does not hear, 2017, the National Reform Programme. You've made it very clear that you're reducing the number of people who are on the benefit of a job, that you're reducing their credit rating, that you're reducing their rights. This is in your 2016 programme, 2017. What we wrote in 2015 wasn't this intensity. Our intensities were to reduce the number of places with the benefits of working time, but those places that do not exist in the Republic of Croatia. You have made this very clear to the European Commission. You will reduce the number of places, not only will you reduce, but you will reduce the rating for those who remain. This means that the one who was 18/12, will then be 16/12 etc. So don't lie and accuse us as the government... We've run the changes, and you're... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Mrsic.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76229	Time, inexorably, is running out of time. So inexorable that he has now, yet he is not so inexorable because he will respond to the replica Mr. Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76230	In short, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, you, colleague Mrsic, referred to what the secretary of state said. I didn't say that in my presentation. And you actually answered her. So, at no point have I considered it, if it really happened and if it's in the national reform programme, I don't have that programme in front of me and I can't confirm whether it's true or not, but I don't think it is. I think the secretary of state said that well. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76231	Thank you very much. I'll meet you later. And now Mr. Silvano Hrelja in front of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HUS, as a witness of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76232	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in a small number and allow a man who today is 60 years old to be seriously unserious, but in any case seriously unserious, but in any case from this pay phone is otherwise discussed in principle about the bill proposal, the positive sides, the negative ones, etc. I'll say that my reason for voting for this law, even though we know his fate is because I like it, because I like it as an idea. Because even by knowing and working here on these jobs, I might even be able to sort of define the signatories who are behind this text, the elaborates, etc. An exceptional expert, but for this to be implemented, I think it should have an inter-minor approach, so that if Croatia decided to solve the problem of having ten or more specific regulations, all those working under conditions of insurance training with an increased duration would have equal rights and one regulation. I think it's the fundamental intensity of all of this and as such it's very positive and acceptable to me too. Of course the government has the right to say and finally say we are ready, capable, we have professional service behind us, we can do better, we can do better. Or this can simply say, what we have is considered better. It's very legitimate, and you don't have to tell yourself who could do what he wanted and who could, etc. I think these are the discussions we have to discuss, and I think we need to be above it because they don't end up using anything. I'm going to stand out in the open, and I'm going to argue that the job with an extended life insurance internship is defined as a professional pension somewhere in the future if not now for one reason why I think that when a man stops being a soldier or a cop and stops meeting all the demands and professions that he still has a job, that he can do another job and that he can ultimately earn himself through the contributions of half of his pension which he's not to reject. I remember that in all governments people were retired from some pension so they worked, so they worked for four years somewhere State Secretary, deputy ministers. It was paid on the basis of their salaries to pay 200, 300 000 kuna. They personally have no use for it. It's happening, it's going to happen in all governments, etc. I think that the same thing should be taken into account is that after he stops being a fireman, a policeman, a soldier, if he hadn't stopped the world, there are other jobs and other useful jobs to which I could contribute to society. That's why I'm kind of interested in being open and looking positively at this Proposed Law on Professional Pensions. Of course, we will have to say sooner or later which jobs are not possible until 65 or 67 years, because it is simply not possible. Psychological efforts are such that people, on average, or 90% of people who do this cannot handle them, all in order to reduce the number of disability pensions. Because these people, when they don't have a choice, and they can't do a job, then they're putting pressure on disability pensions. So it's all a closed circle and we have to observe it that way. Of course, I also wanted to correct one of these positions around the second pension column, so if I remember correctly, Mrsic, when you gave them a statement, if they wanted to stay in the second column. So if one of them said he wanted to, then you had to leave him on the second pension post. So we have about that position that you describe in this law and now in force. No one has the right to take someone's personal account unless he's asked for his health before. This was just a reverse technique. Of course there are also occupations that have decent salaries in the Republic of Croatia not to say for ordinary citizens or those with average salaries of very high wages according to some world standards and pilots and flight control etc. And that they will probably fall under the most pension category and that they save them in that relatively short working life in the second pension column is welcome and they will have the right to receive a pension from two pillars regardless of what their basic pension is defined by a special regulation. Of course it's possible from a good look at all this, I'm not saying that this is an ideal solution, it can be upgraded, there's a lot more to come up with. It's possible to do so-called. the extent of pensions whether they are carried out proportionately compared to an insurance training carried out under specific rules, i.e. with an insurance internship with an increase in duration or a benefited internship. Or if he had a full-time job and then earned a professional pension, and then worked 10 years under the general rules of some other business then he would get an exchange for 10 years under the general rules. So you'd get your full plus this second pension. I know it's hard, to listen to those who have 1,500 or 2000 kn or 1000 kn pensions, but the world of work is complex and no one in the 60s or 70s can correct with the height of retirement what someone lacks a job internship, which is not lucky, which has not had a good employer, so the payments are small. But this system is comprehensive, it is for all those who have worked and have real variations on the subject. It is more important to me that these variations are correct, fair, as it would be very right and fair to introduce family pensions, indeed 70 or 80 years of joint internship, means a lot more to me than the right to retire from the deceased husband, than the widow who has never worked. So it is important for this system to be fair, to be fair and to be known in advance. Therefore, there is no dilemma here in this law. The government's opinion is negative. The law will not experience, unfortunately, what the trade unions wanted, that in 2 reading they will experience some improvements but will fall on the first reading, which is by the force of the majority, which will not prevent me from voting for this law and to view this law as a good provocation, a good initiative, to think a little bit, whether what we have is really best or otherwise, given that we have information, that the European countries have resorted to a lot of this institution of professional retirement, and yet to be correct about the benefits of a job, you know the last revision was done somewhere in the '90s. Mr. Crescent. '85, '86. etc. Last century. I remember then I was a shipbuilding safety engineer, I actively participated in certain jobs, shipbuilding, in the audit, so from then on, we haven't had any new audits, technologies have changed. So it's justified to talk about reviewing the benefits of the internship. No one will end what someone has been paying so far, to be clear, these are acquired rights, so the new rules, the new benefits, can only be from the day some new laws occur, or, after the revision that will say, yes, nothing has changed here, stays 6 months, 18 for 12, or that there's technologically much change here, so instead of 15, 12, it's going to be, instead of 16, 12, it's going to be 15 12 or 18 12 is going to be 15 12. So you don't need to spread, I see that in the media space there's a lot of expansion and panic, now everything will be abolished, nothing will be abolished, nothing can be abolished for all those years where the contribution is paid, these are acquired rights, rights acquired in the pension system are obtained and they upgrade the payment of contributions through the years of internship and years of work. Therefore, the GLAS and HSU Club will support this bill, although the fate of this law is very certain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76233	Thank you, too. I also propose, I welcome the representatives of the government, I welcome Mrs Roscic, I welcome Mr Mrssic, I welcome Mr Hrelja, and that is, my two associates, that is all that is here today, but tomorrow, we will certainly have. ... No, no, no, go ahead. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, we decide who you will address, Mr. Hrelja or Mrs. Roscic. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, no, we'll go, you guys, take as much time as you need. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[No, a little longer than a minute. Well, we'll finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76234	The government says that in the system of benefits, things will change, in a way that I quote, it's a system, so it's published in the national reform programme itself, so the number of seats will be reduced, so for which the duration will be increased. It will also reduce the scope of those who have the right to early retirement and that is what you would like to say very clearly. When we talk about the revision of the site, therefore, with an increase in duration, the intensity was not that those places were abolished, it wasn't the intensity that those places, downgraded their bonification, but it was the intensity to make order in that system as well. 2016 is a national reform programme, 2017 is a national reform programme, you said on the web very clearly in the 2017 programme that there will be a reduction in the number of people who will have the right. When you talk about a parallel system, achieving the right to retire, this bill only ensures transparency, simplicity and uniformity of the right to pension of those persons who have exercised rights under so far parallel laws, that is what Mr Hrelja said, the 10th law regulates this topic. Then this is one law that refers to all these laws. The government says the bill will essentially develop modality, achieve a new right to the state of play, and that activities aimed at the current system of benefits are being revised. We've seen this, obviously, that there are some things that want to be abolished, and the purpose of this law is not to revise the benefits of a work experience but rather the purpose of this law to regulate matter. The government points out that the bill has a broad impact on the existing pension system in an unsuitable and complex way with unclear effects on pension insurance rights covered by this bill. In response to that, you could very clearly say that the effects are clearer, allowing all pensioners to have the same right to enter the world of work, the equal right to equalise their pension that continues to be based on the score system with so-called. the old pensioners and the previously retired more adequate weight of the jobs they carry out. The government says the bill would reduce the existing level of pension insurance rights. Apparently, the calculations that worked at HZMO have probably forgotten that, according to the ZOMO pensions of these pensioners, there are also certain reductions of 8 to 20% once and twice by 10%, therefore this was likely to be avoided in a certain way. In the view of the Government, it is also considered very difficult to determine the amount of pension and will not be able to determine the amount of pension because it is not possible to do so. Well even now according to current laws it's very difficult to calculate and it counts individually, for everyone it's very difficult to calculate in general. It is not a fact that five consecutive years of work give a better average of the pension rate than ten years. Well, that's logical, five years is always better than ten years or the whole accounting period. It is also absurd to point out that the bill does not comply with the intensity of the long-term work in the world with so many unemployed, registered at the Employment Office. The bill allows for the release of old and simultaneously opening new jobs, allowing employment to all pensioners coming out of this system. And in this system you can't stay forever, you have to get out of it. It is obvious that the government does not want to resolve this issue, but I think it will break its teeth on the benefited work experience in such a way as the proposed National Reform Programme, which I have quoted on the web, you probably know the State Secretary in 2016, 2017, very clearly describes what you have decided to do in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76235	Thank you, too. Let's close the argument. That was the first reading, so you'll be about the second reading. ... Is that the final proposal? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the final proposal, then will be voted when the conditions are met. Tomorrow we have at 9.30 a.m. Proposal for a forest law, and we're all back together here at 9.30 a.m. Session interrupted at 19.03 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-14-0.u76236	Proposed law on professional retirement, first reading, P.Z. No. 276. It is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: no draft law on professional retirement is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 71 for, 4 abstentions, 15 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
