ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81865	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Emigrant Queen is the next of the Croatian Emigrant Mother founded in 1951. Today, the Croatian Emigrants Queen is acting under the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen, which was brought by the Croatian Parliament in December 1990. This law was founded as an independent organisation with the property of a social legal person. Therefore, the legal position of work, the establishment of the Croatian Emigrant Queen, should be brought into line with the new laws, especially the Law on Institutions. By entry into force of the Law on Institutions of 1993, the Croatian Emigrants Queen was to become an ex-legislative public institution, which is defined in Article 78(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law on institutions. Meanwhile, a whole series of regulations were introduced in the Republic of Croatia to coordinate the activity and organisational structure of the Croatian Emigrant Queen. Among other things, the Law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes that the founder of the Croatian Emigrants of the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Croatia shall be exercised by the central authority of the state administration responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia or the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources. The Administrative Council will adopt the Statute of the Queen, with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the light of the previous opinion of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and will coordinate other general acts of the queen with the provisions of this law within 90 days of the date of entry into force of the amendment of the text of the legislative proposal on the basis of the opinion of other bodies, which are the Office of Law, Ministry of Administration and Finance. It is noteworthy that the Director and his alternate are determined to appoint and resolve them by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Governing Council, in accordance with the law and statutes, to have completed a pre-graduate and graduate university study or an integrated pre-graduate and graduate university study and at least five years of working experience in the profession and to fulfil other conditions prescribed by the Statute to be appointed on the basis of an implementing public tender whose rules are laid down by the Statute of the Mother of Croatia itself. To be appointed at the time of 4 years, to actually be appointed director for a duration of 4 years and to be re-appointed to the same duty. It was also decided that the job of the secretary of the queen would not be governed by this law itself, but by general acts from the Emigrant Mother. That Matica is as a budgetary user in the field of planning accounting and financial reporting in the obligation to act in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Croatia's budget system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81866	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate and we're going to the first club. It is the first Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81867	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, the respected secretary of state with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. The topic of Croatian emigrants is becoming more and more relevant, once it was one, yet we can say, a limited part of people who also for economic reasons were leaving for political reasons, but what did they all intend to do with their departures? They intended to acquire some property for their family and at some point when the economic situation in Croatia or the political situation, which we had with the independence of the Republic of Croatia, had the conditions to return. And my father, like a number of others, was such an emigrant, perhaps it was wrong to say the emigrant what because no one had evicted him, he was simply forced to make such a decision, I would better say diaspora as such is a better name. What we have today, today, is happening to us, after a long-standing economic, political crisis in Croatia that leaves numerous scars on our society, a tragic scale of emigration. Tens, tens of thousands of Croats, Croats, in large numbers of cases with family leave and send one message, and that's not coming back. Of these millions of people, Croats living abroad, the number is increasing. These are still Croats, our citizens mostly living in other countries, and we need to take care of and lead an appropriate policy according to their needs. Politics is primarily related to the preservation of Croatia's national identity, culture, customs and everything they would care about and here to live in their home country, and the same thing we want to remain, not only for them as a tradition, but also for children who come into the second generation, where we can see that already there are problems where part of Croatian identity is lost and part of Croatian language is lost, and that is something that is here, and the Croatian Emigrant Matica must be actively represented. I will therefore say that actively in all this should be the position of the Government, not only to have an office that has a role, not only to have a Matica and other organisations, institutions, but also to be appropriate means. What we want primarily, by working, here are Matica and all others, is to gain the trust of these citizens, our citizens who are abroad in the Croatian institutions, that this trust builds future relations, to build the possibility of their return, their reintegration because we are doing the least in this area. We in the Republic of Croatia seem to be kind of afraid to reintegrate these people, invite them back, because if they came back, they'd come back with definitely advanced ideas, democratic ideas, new economic ideas, ideas in which it's not the policy that decides on all economic flows, here's looking at this morning's inscriptions in the Index where we see that our Deputy Prime Minister is... where, in fact, it also indicates that there is no economic activity in Croatia without the influence of politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what message do we send to our emigrants, to the people in the diaspora? That if they are not subject to politics, they cannot make their investments. The easiest we could actually get are because they know the systems here best, they know the language, they have capital, they have certain knowledge, they have experience, they have connections, they could open, not only Europeanly, but also the world market, but we seem to be afraid. Does that bother anyone? Who's bothering me? I'll be honest, it seems that it only bothers political punks, it's one expression I've read, it bothers financial lowlifes, it bothers those where better integration with the country of origin would surely bring change, and changes would not suit those who protect their positions. And it's exactly that mistrust, and after these statements that we could read and because of everything that's going on, it's not less, it's growing. From that euphoria during the Homeland War, from the desire to free Croatia, to create an independent state, when millions, millions of currencies entered, were helped in every way possible to achieve the eternal dream, somewhere it evaporated, disappeared, lost, where these attempts worth the effort, wishes, efforts to preserve something not enough. And that's why I can't say that disappointment rules for the Matrix, too. Why? To choose primarily people, who should be the ones who will be the bearers of the Mother's activity. We were all witnesses of political trade, agreed in which our former colleague Ivan Tepeš replaced his place, a possible place in the European Parliament to be conveniently located in the Croatian queen of emigrants. And more importantly, he traded, lost his party's trust, the Croatian party of law, Ante Starcevic, who is the right-wing party. When a man betrays his right hand, he speaks only of one moral fall, absolute morality where the tones of the right always reflect absolutely unchangeable attitudes. We see here that, in fact, everything is politically possible with us. A comment from the board president, Mr. Milan Kovac, was not to hold a tender for this. But nobody even mentioned it as a problem. The problem was, in fact, the very modality of the deal so that someone would be proposed. But it got lost as quickly as anything else this government represents. And what we can only say seems to be that people who are willing to make all the arrangements, who believe that the thunders that the Parliament itself has been saying have been guarding with a hunting rifle, are not really persons who can represent in the diaspora of the position, the diaspora that can bring them closer to those positions, who can make qualitative contacts with them than they will be considered exclusively as part of a political elite that is ready for all the agreements, which is ready to diaspora when 2 billion euros of praise comes and also, secondly, are ready to turn their backs to that same diaspora and to rip out their own personal or interests of the group to which they belong. Therefore, this harmonisation is actually just one make-up that needs to be made, and I agree that the time has long not been in line with the Law on Institutions, but it should also be said that functions are not only material, they are not only programming, but also human and on these people it is also an institution that should keep in touch with the Croatian diaspora. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81868	We're going to another club, it's the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's Club of Representatives, respected counterpart Goran Dodig.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81869	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, allow me to look back on behalf of the HDS club, HSLS, HDSSB on this proposal for a law on the Croatian queen of emigrants. Although it seems to us at first glance that this is a problem that is almost not a problem but rather a matter of just harmonising the legislation, i.e. the Emigrant Mothers with the current legislation, let me say the following. It's already been a talk, but I want to stress the importance of eviction and, in this context, the future work of this Emigrant Mother. In fact, emigration is a phenomenon that every country knows, the question of how this phenomenon of emigration reflects on this country of origin and on people who have moved out of the country of origin. Croatia here, I do not think it is particularly specific, but quite certainly the effects of emigration, the effects of eviction from Croatia are significantly greater than in some other countries. So when we look at only the history of emigration, the eviction from Croatia, then we had first economic emigration, so we had political emigrations that were partly legal and partly illegal, people were running across borders without passports, risking their lives for political reasons. So they came again today, so-called. the economic migrations that are due to me, I mean quite uninformed but also the almost colossal attitude in Croatia to move people out. It's literally a hectic attitude. In this sense, I will illustrate to you a short part of the programme on one of the TVs in Croatia a few days ago where an economic analyst together with the leader analyzes the economic indicators in Croatia's last, last economic indicators. And about the story goes like this, economic indicators regarding GDP and other macroeconomic indicators are good but expressed in relative numbers. Then he interprets them, which means in absolute numbers, and then they take a whole other dimension and another message. And the conclusion is that Croatia cannot reach Europe, especially EU members who are more developed for the next 70, 80 and more years, for example. Slovenia can only arrive 20 years from now. And then the last message in that moment is when it is so, then it is much easier to reach Slovenia through Brežice than through economic indicators. So in this context, the Emigrant Mother must get no other but additional dimensions. If we analyse what emigrants mean, what they meant in the Homeland War and their contribution to the Homeland War, then indeed there must be in Croatia institutions that will create climates that people return to Croatia, not only those who have now gone for certain economic reasons but also those who have been out for a long time, and also another generation and third generation if they are well presented with what Croatia and what Croatia can do for them and, of course, offer a legal framework for it. Therefore, in this activity in Article 3 which is described in Article 3 where the activity of Matica is the preservation and development of Croatian national identity, language and cultural Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and in this sense the Matica organises and implements cultural, scientific, educational, sports, publishing, informative and other activities in the Republic of Croatia and abroad intended for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, publishes magazines, books, other publications, audio-visual works etc., it is all fine, and I support it without further ado, but it is small. That's a little bit. At this point, I can't, I saw this proposal this morning, I can't suggest something significant that should be introduced into this article 3 on activity but in the organization of Matica, I think it would be good to have a professional body that could be volunteering, it's a professional scientific body that would bring a strategy of work because this is not an institution, we see that it was founded in '51, how it could have the objectives of '51, it's quite certain. Contemporary indeed, the modernity of Croatia and Croatian political really requires a much more serious and stronger approach to this. In that context I support, my club supports the first reading, I hope that we will still be able to discuss this and propose some amendments that could greatly improve this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81870	Thank you. Before we move to the third debate, I would like to welcome all of us students of the Viktorovac primary school in Sisak, welcome. Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives and Honored counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81871	Thank you very much, Mr. President, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So to talk here about the history of eviction I don't think it makes sense, all of that history we know very well and the reasons why our countrymen left the Republic of Croatia in time. Perhaps the name of the Croatian Emigrant Queen is a little clumsy because the Croatian Emigrant Queen is not only concerned about emigrants as such, she cares about Croats who are not emigrants but are indigenous to areas that live. So these are Croats in BiH, in the Republic of Serbia, in Hungary, in Slovenia, etc., Austria that I do not speak further, so we cannot regard them as emigrants as such. But it is purely semantics, it has nothing to do with the activity of the Croatian Emigrant Queen. The speakers before me said that this law has actually been in line with new laws and with the new legislation that has changed greatly since 1990. If you're reading the law, the termology itself has seen a lot of changes and then everything else. But he would take advantage of this debate and point to some of the problems our countrymen outside the Republic of Croatia face that very rarely have the opportunity to hear in this House. He would also refer to the work of Matica as such and to the role it should play in solving and helping solve these problems. I am very pleased to note that the secretary of state here was present recently to visit our community in Hungary. I believe that there she saw that the Croats in Hungary are one of the most organised Croatian communities outside the Republic of Croatia, enjoying a great reputation in their community, enjoying the great support of the Hungarian state and financing a whole series of projects, schools, cultural events and the only permanent Croatian National Theatre outside the border of the Republic of Croatia, located in Pechuh, so in Hungary. I am sorry to determine colleagues and colleagues that they have done all this without a single kuna, almost without a single kuna from the Republic of Croatia, that they have all built Hungarian forints and not Croatian kunas. What does that tell us? It tells us that the Hungarian state appreciates our countrymen in Hungary more than we do. And help doesn't always have to be financial, co-workers and colleagues. The aid should most often be more of the moral nature, support, logistics support, etc. Here's just one example. It is about textbooks in Croatian. So, specifically speaking of Croatians in Hungary, they have major problems in obtaining textbooks in Croatian. So we're not talking about textbooks for Croatian, you exist, of course. But for those other items that students listen to in Croatian. These are primarily subjects of social science. I cannot buy textbooks from the Republic of Croatia because they are financed by the money of the Hungarian state and cannot therefore, as such, do foreign transactions in terms of finance, at least not as the Croatian state self-government or the Croatian alliance in Hungary as they exist there. On the other hand, the Republic of Croatia does not receive such textbooks and donations of textbooks are mainly based on the initiative of individuals, those who want to help, which are mostly spent textbooks, so textbooks that will not be used in the Republic of Croatia or have expired, therefore, cannot be used again for some reasons etc. So there needs only a little effort, connecting publishing houses and interested communities of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The publishing houses, anyway, one part of the textbooks, they're shrimping, so they're giving them into donations, and I can give them these. Some of them, and I'm specifically talking a lot about Croatians in Hungary because I'm best acquainted with their issues, have problems with property in the Republic of Croatia. So, as part of their activities, they bought and restored, or did not buy, a pardon, they rented and renovated an object on the island of Pag, which is now in property, in property trouble because it highlights their rent. They invested a lot in this facility and would like to keep it, of course, and for the benefit of the Croatian communities in Hungary, since young people come to Croatia every year to learn the language of summer school, but also to a local community that still leaves some money in which they hire local people and the like. These are all problems that affect this community specifically, which can be solved without much money, only with a little coordination and a little goodwill. Of course, Croats in Hungary, when we compare their problems with the problems of some other communities in other countries, then their problems seem very, almost insignificant. For example, it is the status of Croats in the Republic of Serbia. For a number of reasons and for the last reasons of tightening rhetoric politically, primarily in the Republic of Serbia, but because of the fact that the Croatian National Corps in the Republic of Croatia is systematically breaking into two parts, even three by one, in Croatia, Bunjevce and Šokce. That the rebels are extremely forceful, and we all know that the Bunjeci are actually part of the Croatian National Corps, which among other things was recognized by the Hungarian Academy of Science and Art. So it's very clear what we're doing here. Or the position of Croats in Slovenia. So there are certain shifts, I hope that soon we will also see the final recognition of the status of Croats in Slovenia as they should have, but this one in Serbia is certainly alarming. Well then the position of Croats in BIH etc., etc. So there are many problems and cultural activities, scientific activity, what Croatia's Emigrants Mother is dealing with, is only one small part of the segment which is primarily focused on keeping the identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Believe me, I really admire and that we can be proud of our countrymen in Hungary who have preserved their customs and their language for centuries. Exposed primarily in Hungarian, Hungarianisation, assimilation, above all, in urban areas. Also, the alarming situation is that, for example, in the Republic of Serbia more than 80%, I am now not giving you numbers that I am not 100% sure of, but certainly more than 80% of Hungarian national minorities attend classes in Hungarian, while only a small percentage of Croats in the Republic of Serbia attend classes in their own language. These are all indicators that suggest that their status in countries where they live is not satisfactory and that the state, the queen, the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, our ministry needs much work to ensure equal status for our compatriots. We are proud that our minorities in the Republic of Croatia have the status they deserve, that they have cultural autonomy, that their rights are respected, that they are represented politically in the Croatian Parliament, but at local levels. So, I think it's okay, that we should be proud of the minorities that live in the Republic of Croatia, they're small... in a mosaic that makes our society rich, but I also think that then the least we can expect is reciprocity when we talk about Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have a second category, and that's emigration like that. So when we talk about the return of emigrants, and our emigrant institutions should work on it as well. We have a whole series of problems here. I know from personal experience, since I have several friends who have decided to return to the Republic of Croatia, mostly from overseas countries that the Office of Welcome of the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia does not work the way it should or should have received the help they should have received from that Office. If they hadn't had friends and relatives in the Republic of Croatia, they'd probably have come back and given up. And then you can think, when we talk about the return of emigrants who are relatives and friends, at least to the extent that these colleagues in Croatia did not have. It is also not necessary to underestimate the fact that many of our countrymen after going to other countries, creating generations of prominent citizens and entrepreneurs, people who have capital, and who would like to enter their homeland, or homeland of their great-grandfathers, and invest. I had the opportunity to talk to our emigrants in Canada who are currently representing such a category of emigrants who have referred precisely to that possible returnees especially those who would invest in Croatia face a whole series of problems, from that of our usual bureaucracy to all other technical problems that investors, any investors, but then especially Croats who want to invest in Croatia should not have. You've set up your own time, there's been talk about setting up an investment agency, you can see from this attached, but from everything else, it hasn't come to life, and this is an absolute area to work on. When we talk about our emigration in the overseas countries and when we talk about achieving ties between the homeland and these communities, and one of the tasks of the Croatian Emigrant Queen is precisely what we have to bear in mind at the time that the last or the last generation, and we can achieve some stronger contact that speaks Croatian, which remembers grandparents fluent in Croatian and who may have been in Croatia several times. We've been warned right in Canada that our time is passing that our time is not working for us. Unfortunately, assimilation is everywhere, if we add the country's lack of good relations with those communities, then the process is faster. So it is absolutely necessary to work on it and one of the tasks at least I see it The Mothers of the Prince should be to strengthen and encourage and strengthen Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and Croatia in the Republic of Croatia, so through publishing and through cultural activities and through teaching activities and everything else. We have another category of emigration, which is what I would call the newest emigration, so what went motivated primarily by economic causes, and it's an emigration mahogany in Ireland, it's a new destination, France, Germany, Austria and so on. What worries is that the people who went in this last moss are very disappointed, that they went out of despair and went away and that their motherland was not so enthusiastic about the relationship of contact. It's something that's also something to change and what to work on. And allow me a few more references to the law itself. In fact, I have noticed one illogicality in Article 4 said that the queen works in the area of the Republic of Croatia. I wouldn't limit it, I'd take this part of Article 4 out of the law. The queen should act wherever there are Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, as the previous article says, Article 3 in the performance of the activity, so the activity of the queen is the preservation and development of the Croatian national, language and cultural identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So I think the queen's activity should be and exist wherever there are Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. In any case, in the first reading of the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this law and I hope that in the second reading and these small illogicalities will be corrected as well as other remarks already made to you on the Committee on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81872	We are now going to the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81873	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81874	Thank you. Then we're going to the HDZ Klub, a respected colleague, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81875	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have heard from the State Secretary, the purpose of this Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen is actually to coordinate the organisational form of that institution with the Law on Institutions. The previous Law on the Croatian Emigrants Act was passed before the Law on Institutions in December 1990 and was used with institutes and some legal definitions which were then valid but which were later changed. It is therefore necessary to pass with that of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants, which will be in line with the Law on Institutions, but also with the Law on Relations of the Republic of Croatia with the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted in 2011 and which included all the subjects of importance for the relations of the Croatian state with Croatian emigrants and thus included the Croatian queen of emigrants. Thus, the proposal for a law by the Government states to the Parliament that Croatia's queen of emigrants is a public institution of interest for the Republic of Croatia, which is also the founder of the queen. On behalf of the founding state, the Central State Office for Relations for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia as the central body of the state administration responsible for this area of work. The Croatian Emigrants Queen will continue to carry out activities with this law to strengthen relations with Croatian emigrants in the fields of culture, science, education, sport as well as publications, magazines, books and audiovisual works. In relations between emigrated and native Croatia, the Croatian queen of emigrants really takes the central place, she provides an institutional framework that enables, encourages and facilitates stronger bonding of emigrants and their descendants with their homeland. This role of the Croatian Emigrant Queen began to develop much more strongly in 1990 when she changed the name of the Emigrant Mother, as it was in accordance with then's mainstream and political correctness from the time of socialism changed the name of the Croatian Emigrant Queen. The change of course was not only a formal nature but reflected in the organisation's action in line with the new policy of reconciliation of the emigrated and native Croatia promoted by Dr. Franjo Tudjman. So they did, for example. Here's the '90s. for the first time and in my native Buenos Aires shared scholarships to Croatian language and culture to Croatian homes and Catholic missions. By 1990, these scholarships to study in Croatia, as well as other forms of cooperation, were reserved exclusively for Yugoslav Clubs and Associations, while Catholic missions and Croatian institutions were excluded. The new reconciliation policy, which led President Tudjman to integrate an entire branch of our people, which had been segregated and Stigmatized by then, has allowed reconciliation within the evictive environments themselves. The former Yugoslav clubs became Croatian, their members and members of Croatian homes began to socialise together to keep younger generations connected to the old homeland. The topic of today's debate is a legal proposal which is essentially just one legal harmonisation of the Croatian queen of emigrants with the Law on Institutions. However, this technical occasion can also serve to raise awareness of the important role that the Croatian Emigrant Mother can continue to play and, on top of that, the role that evicted Croatia can play today if its wider door is opened for participation in the political, economic, academic, cultural life of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club will support the draft law on Croatia's Emigrant Matica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81876	Thank you, too. We are going to the respected representative Ivica Misic, Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity, Reformists and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81877	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I thank the secretary of state for this report and this law. What about our Croats and our emigrants? We know that the emigrations of Croats are almost 100 years old, and most of them moved out about 45 years ago, these were politically driven Croats and the 1960s economic doors, which were leaving Croatia for economic reasons. What is the problem with our Croats abroad? As far as they are treated, how welcome they are in our Croatian state we see it every day. Of course, by the age of 90, it was almost impossible for certain people to return, whether they were economic or exiled Croats who had to leave our country. As desirable as they were, we all saw it in the '90s. When democracy came, then we saw that the Croats wanted to come back, actually help Croatia and return to the Croatian state. Those people who visited some countries, where Croats live, I was personally in Australia in the '80s and around our countries, Germany was present to us, they were usually economic migrants, what was going on there? The same people could not return to Croatia, they could not get more visas to return, they were not even trying because they would be arrested and would naturally be processed in the same state. What are the rights of our Croats today? I can say much, much better than the old times, though there are some shortcomings today, but here, thank God we have now and the Croatian office so we see and the law new and we try to solve that our Croats who wish to return to this country, that what is the problem? The problem is still getting documents. This process gets documents in our embassies or consulates going slowly. It takes a year, six months, two years, and there's a little problem that we know on the board right now, that we're trying to solve it, and that our people aren't waiting as long as we do Italians, Germans, Austrians and all the other citizens who came from it, they come to their country without a problem and get everything they need to get. But with us, it's going a little hard. We all know well that Croatians outside Croatia and in the Homeland War have contributed both financially and all possible things, even coming and defending the Croatian state and being killed in the Croatian state, but I have a feeling that this is just so casual and this is our Homeland War at the end, so I would say, not sufficiently presented, not sufficiently spoken, it's all gone just by the way that, I have to admit both our media and all those who carry some events, as it happened in Borov and it's simply not given great attention, it's all kind of, I would say along the way. Not as much marking as it used to be in that former Yugoslavia we had. What's going on today? We have our Croats in BiH, Serbia, Hungary, Austria, here a colleague said they have a good status in Hungary, they have that in Austria, they also have in Slovenia, but our Croats' status in Serbia is not great, we saw it the other day from the media where we saw that Seselj still wants to attack and threaten our people living in Serbia. Of course, here's thank God it's stopped, we hope that Serbian politics will once take a good path. However, we have endangered our Croats and in BiH. Most in Bosnia and Bosnia... We see from 200,000, 138 000 from Brcko to Derventa Croats are expelled, evicted, unfortunately returned some, 5, 6000. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when elections are, there's not much attention being given to going in, making documents, making our people easily choose in those places. Here I am now hoping and thinking and here I see and operate, our office, I must say, I am not unhappy and I see that they are visiting our people and trying but we must both get out of here and out of this House and out of this house we must send a message both to BiH and so on. To the Serbian Republic where Dodig knows that it is very, very difficult to accept a return. And we know how the Serbian Republic came into existence, by crime, under banishment. I don't think so far, the Croatian state has had any kind of, some kind of attitude, one strong attitude to say so gentlemen, that's enough, so there are Croats and memorials. I also want the Serbs to return to their homes. The people who were expelled, he must be respected, he must be helped, he must be resolved. I haven't noticed in the last few years that someone's been trying. ... We can accept as one fact that it is good that the Croats have moved out of Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course they have not died, but they cannot accept the fact that it did not bother to build some houses today, of course this office is not guilty but that the state of Croatia should take a little care of it because as Serbs take care of Serbs in Croatia, which I consider normal, but so much we have to take care of our Croats in Serbia, in BiH, of course, and everywhere in the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I hope this law too, of course, that we will support it and the club for sure but I would also like to wish that all of us here and in the Croatian state that our Croats who come from outside feel really like in their own country, desirable, that they are desirable and not that we still see them as some kind of opponents who are questionable whether they can come back, who are questionable whether they can get a passport, which is questionable whether Croatian documents, I'm talking about people who went out in '45, '46. The year where the gentlemen call on the antifascism that I support but not what they've committed and no one will talk about it, we'll have Bleiburg soon. And all of this needs to be accepted and it should be respected because these people didn't deserve to be shot without court, we know how many of our Croats died, killed and all. So we can only talk normally when we tell the truth about everything, but the truth, no lies. No historians who wrote history during communism were courting any politicians or the system in which they lived. Our modern - day historians should not suffer from this but simply come, write down the history of truth. Because the truth only can bring prosperity here and we can live here with both the environment and neighbouring countries and with everyone in one, in one I would say good radiation and then that prosperity in this country that I think is not as bad as the truth just before Dodig mentioned the media, constantly pumping that it's wrong, that people should go away. But it's another thing to think about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81878	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate now. First came the honorary colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81879	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed secretary with assistants, his associates, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about harmonisation of the law here, we're talking about the queen of emigrants, we're talking about the central state office, we're talking about all the institutions that should take care of the Croatian people outside the Republic of Croatia. The fact that Croats, in particular if we look at the BiH environment, our BiH district, Serbia, have not joined as well as Croats in those countries have the same legal status as other peoples. That's the basic point. Neither Croatian politics in Croatia nor Croatian politics in BiH, when we talk about Bosnia, fought for the equality of the Croatian people over these areas. Simply where were the Croatian people used in BiH? It was used for pre-election purposes. That's where it was used. It was not used, it was not given to them, but here, just to get back to the convictions of the six, did the Croatian state treat these people with dignity, as Croatian defenders who defended both BiH and who defended Croatia? It's not. The fact is that according to these people, according to the people who participated in the Homeland War, the defences that defended BiH and Croatia from... Serbian aggression, that Croatian politics left them hanging. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's unfortunate that only in 2016 did one minister leave after 13, 12 years went to The Hague and visited our defenders, in which case, General. And we know the epilogue, the Croatian state did not fight for its people in BiH. Believe me, the money is invested in BiH, for the Croats, we who have an obligation under the Constitution, not by any international conventions, of course, and we should keep it, but under the Constitution on the Croatian People in BiH we didn't care enough as a state and the results are visible. A very small number of Croats are in BiH, increasingly smaller and smaller, empty areas. And even projects that would help, that we repeat and copy, like. joint projects on the highway and the Imot region and the Vrgorak region of Ravca-Drvenik would help develop Herzegovina and Zaređ, as this is strategically important for those areas to remain populated. I was recently in the Lithuanian area, there are no people, an ever older population, to mark the defense action of Livna and that area when the Serbian army headed towards, in '92. years according to the meaning of the Sinj area or... busy strategic dominant points no more nations in these areas, simply being used for pre-election purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was not the goal of keeping people in the area but clearly the goal of investing Croatia in these areas in the institutions, but obviously the goal of moving them here and being voters or at least being on board. That's not the basic goal, they have the right to vote, but it's not the basic goal of moving these people out of these areas. About Serbia on Croats in Serbia and the rights of the Croatian national minority, we must say that the Croatian national minority does not have a representative as a minority representative, there is, but from lists that are parliamentary there is no representative. And there is nothing Croatian politics can add to Vucic or Seselj, they will not be welcomed with flowers until at lower levels, both war damage and minority question are resolved as to how in Croatia is resolved to be in Serbia and other issues that have been resolved in Croatia for both the minority and the majority people until they are resolved. Won't we be welcomed by the fact that Seselj, who is a Chetnik and Vučić, who was a flower brush in Belgrade, or the president of the Parliament, or the delegation of the Assembly. They will welcome insults, flag burning, flagging, and we must be aware of that, until Serbian politics gives up those hooligans who have been hoarding in the Clay people of Serbian nationality to wage war against their people. So minority issues, respected secretaries, are not resolved in the Republic of Croatia and at your lower levels, the embassies solve these issues, only then should the prime minister, the president, the president of the parliament go into contact when the missing Croats we have in Belgrade are resolved and the other issues that are clearly resolved in Croatia on the issue of the Serb minority community and in Serbia are not Croatian. So the Croats in those two countries I mentioned while others exercise their rights. Unfortunately, we have an increasing number of emigrants in Ireland and in other countries, and you need to pay attention here because the whole family is leaving, and I would like them to come back and try to do everything to get back to those who are second, third generation. Unfortunately, foreign policy is not working on the issue well enough. Once again, I stress, no one has the right to resist the political interests of the Croats in BiH who deserve and have the right as the other two peoples and the Serb and Bosniaks of their entity and their right to have self-determination and that Croatian politics must be. Unfortunately, such a policy was not in Croatia. Our policy was extraordinary, our policy was not fought for the Croats in the diaspora. It is a huge human potential mainly in third countries when we talk about the EU and other continents and we need to take advantage of that potential. But I repeat, when there's a rule of law when we have a rule of law, not a state that's unequal, where the judiciary doesn't work, where we treat our resources in a way that we're proud of. And I expect you distinguished secretary to both this office and this queen and everything we have with the diaspora to do in the interest of these people in those areas. And once again, Croatian politics should not be courted either to Vukic or anyone. We're not the ones who have to make out with each other. We are the ones who, at diplomatic ora levels, solve the problem and only then come to the president and meet with the president, not to be mocked by the Republic of Croatia here by the leaders of these countries, that the Croats absolutely have no rights. Here are the Croats of examples in Vojvodina, where and now they tremble at the threat of these people. Here's how much I'd say that both the ministry and these offices that are going to hire new people, I'm talking about the competition even though the competition knows about who, probably for Tepeš or similar who were political losers to do this job in the interests of that people, and not just for opening competitions and hiring and gnawing another two, three people in those institutions. Here it is, I just don't see any more sense of Croatia being mistreated by minorities, and towards Croats outside Croatia because we simply did absolutely nothing for the survival of people in BiH in Serbia, and we did not make return to us returnees and people who went to third countries, but unfortunately made the situation so that our diaspora increased in countries we could never dream of as for example. Ireland and other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81880	There are two replicas, the first respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81881	Thank you very much. So, my colleague Bulj, I am very glad that the Croatian community in Serbia has gotten this much publicity lately, but these problems exist from before and these problems are systematically not solved for a long time and because of what they say in every evil is someone good. I believe that this final incident with Shessel and similar characters in Serbia has led to the fact that again the focus and public policies will be on resolving these issues, and that is what I was talking about, so the split of the Croatian National Corps in Serbia, about the inability of the political representation of the Croatian people in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, so these are all the problems that exist. I, unlike some others who sit here or outside this assembly our minority should be represented at which they are in the Croatian Assembly, but as I said, I think that Croats living outside Croatia should also be represented in this case in the Republic of Serbia or the National Assembly to be their voice and political...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81882	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81883	Thank you very much. A colleague in Serbia at this time when our delegations leave or when they come here at the highest levels then they must be aware that the Croatian minority has absolutely no rights while the minorities in Croatia are in power, minorities are ruling at this time. I'm just telling you what the relationship is. And of course what to expect and go to Serbia, go to Serbia, what to expect from Seselj and Vukic, that they will welcome us with red roses? Well, of course they're in co-operation, that they're in agreement and that the incident was done on purpose and that it matches the top of the policy both in Croatia, so in Serbia, because simply the tops of the policy of this topic correspond to the non-resolvement of these problems, because if it were to solve the problem then they would have solved it at the levels of the ministries, at the level of the embassies, and these problems would have been solved. And about the missing and minority rights and all the other questions, and only then would they come to the highest levels. This is a play that tells about these things and returns to the political points that were lost on the Istanbul ratings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81884	He's a colleague of Madyer's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81885	Thank you. My colleague Bulj, I agree fully with you that he is not thinking too much of the Croats outside Croatia because the visit of Bishop Komarica is to the town of Koprivnica, where I was present, and he warned of the problems of the Croats in BiH. What are the problems, that there are more and more emigrations of Croats from BiH? So I ask you, do you think that the representatives of the diaspora sitting here in the Croatian Parliament care enough about Croats outside of Croatia or are they just being used, unfortunately the Croats during the elections and then the visits, when the elections pass, are no longer important?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81886	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81887	Absolutely, I agree with that. So the Croats from eviction are used exclusively for pre-election purposes, people are in a difficult situation, of course it's the easiest thing for them to motivate them at that time and call for that part of patriotism. But again, we have very complex, we have 1526 missing persons during the Homeland War and 419 are active requests for the search for remains of the dead in Serbia. So we're looking for these demands and we don't have any answers. We don't have answers and we meet at the highest levels. Vukic, when you bring those papers, documents, complete, and when you solve minority issues, you will only come to Croatia and we will talk to you and not those people use in some sort of return to ratings because of some decisions that their voters cannot take. That's why it was a date. What do you expect from Wolf and Seselj? What do you expect? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81888	Let's move on. Now it's my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Ragug, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81889	Dear President, State Secretary, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The need for harmonisation of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants' Mothership of Relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Public Institutions is an opportunity to shed light on the role and importance of Croatian emigrantism in the political life of the Republic of Croatia and the relationship of the Republic of Croatia to Croatian emigrantism. It was recently said that the common causes of emigration are generally known, that these are usually political, economic reasons, I think there are always reasons for evicting political nature, economically only in one piece. Of course, get away from this subject in an inappropriate way and you can often hear grades that are not very thorough. Namely, the living space of the Croatian people in the area of today's Republic and BiH has always been interesting for both the kingdoms and the kingdoms that surrounded the areas of today's Republic of Croatia and BiH, and the Mletska Republic, and the Ottoman Empire, and the Austrian Empire, and the Hungarian Kingdom have shown interest in the life space of Croatian people and wars and conflict in today's Republic and BiH, were a key reason for eviction from the territory of the Republic of Croatia and BiH, respectively. And here it is important to highlight several sociological groups of Croatian emigrants that have and I need to be approached in a special way because they are different positions. So this is a group of Croatian emigrants in the overseas countries where the process has been significantly moving since the half of the 19th century, according to Canada and the United States, the Latin American states, later towards Australia and New Zealand. The second group is the Croatian emigration in European countries, so temporary workers, in the 60s and 70s, of the former Yugoslavia. The third group caused by these mentioned wars and historic processes in the area of the Republic of Croatia and BiH are Croatian minorities in 12 European countries, including some indigenous Croatian population, especially in Serbia and today's Montenegro. In my opinion, within the framework of the Croatian Emigrant Queen, within the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, one programme approach should be made and the differences of these groups should be observed. A Croatian queen of emigrants within the scope of her activity as prescribed in Article 3 of the law through various cultural, scientific, educational, publishing, informative and other programmes, sports content where the relationship to Croatian communities, associations and individuals outside the Republic of Croatia develops, in one more appropriate way to respond to all needs of Croatian emigrants in order to preserve their linguistic, cultural and national political identity. A short time ago, a question of the relationship between us outside the Republic of Croatia and Croatian emigrants, towards the Croats in BiH, was raised. I just think that the issue of not understanding the issue of Croatian emigration and misunderstanding of the position of the Croatian people in BiH is because it is generally known, unfortunately I think it is not good and that it is a key position where political parties differ in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, that is that within their programming documents, they have focus and position of Croats in BiH, Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants. Unfortunately it is known that there is simply no relationship, there is no interest in the position of Croats but is politicised on the subject, on the subject it seeks to disqualify, especially HDZ, which shows therefore unfortunately in one part of this year perhaps the only interests in Croatian emigration and Croats in BiH and Croatian minorities. I do not want to give a hand to colleagues from other political parties, but I think it would be good for us all to show more interest together and therefore that the position of Croatian emigration, Croats in BiH, Croatian minorities do not share but rather be a common topic within which we will compete with better programmes, better ideas, rather than be a topic that will share the political public in the Republic. I propose because the current government has embarked on a legislative reform, hence key provisions to which a correct or incorrect relationship is being questioned towards Croats in BiH, Croats outside Croatia, Croatian emigration on two issues. It is a question of obtaining Croatian citizenship and it is a question of exercising the right to vote. The colleagues from other political parties on the occasion will be within the framework of legislative reforms already launched to express their relationship to key issues, Croatian emigrants, i.e. key issues of Croats outside Croatia, I repeat, therefore, the right to vote and to make it easier to reach Croatian citizenship. The Croatian nation is questioning these two facts. In the last 20 years, and unfortunately for me, she hasn't passed the exam, and the time ahead will be an opportunity to correct it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81890	Thank you. There are two replicas, a respected colleague, Glasovic, you are the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81891	You need to get back a little bit of that. It's not for you, it's for other people who ask some rhetorical questions, acting like they're smart here. I've been talking all the time and talking for a year about a single law, the return of Croats outside the country,... That one about the request was for the government to make... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A Croat like we have out there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To create a framework for investment, to get into a country where someone can invest, to end bureaucracy, etc. That's where we're still waiting for those results. You had a forum of economic, Croatian, advice you have. You have a Croatian World Congress, they gave 20... for the economic recovery of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't go outside to play someone... The war came to BiH, it was for a gentleman from HSS and the Croats did not return because they deliberately sabotaged the old frames because they fear business power, patriotism and the brain of these people, they want us to live in "Croatia" and that is... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today you're a member of a party that sabotaged it, a gentleman from the HSS, you're a member of such a party. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81892	Thank you. A colleague of Glasnović's replica is directed to his colleague Ragužu, so please hold on to it. Here you go, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81893	Thank you. A colleague of Glasnović's, so you're absolutely right. And instead of showing good will in a concrete way towards Croatian emigration, according to the Croats in BiH, we are witnessing that we are constantly politicizing on the subject of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I stress the current government policy of the Republic of Croatia, which, within its programme and its programme orientation, stressed the need to change such a relationship, stressing that there will be an opportunity for Croatian political parties to gather around the needs, contemporary needs of the Croatian nation and that time will be wasted behind us to correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81894	Thank you. Second replica, dear fellow Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81895	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Raguž, I have been offered on the line by one of your statements in the debate and that is the right to vote. Because when you look at today's debate in the Croatian Parliament and when you look at what happened four years ago at polls outside Croatia, because when another other political option came, then she said she could only vote at consular offices. And remember those scenes from Mostar how many Croats in Germany didn't vote. And then the question arises, if we speak in a declarative way, and in practice when we can make certain regulations, we act differently, then the question of cheeks arises. Because we can't talk today, some of us can't talk today one way or another, let's remember what happened for the Mostar presidential election. Let's introduce this letter vote and allow Croatian emigration to vote. Let's be contemporal about it, not how we like it when we hit on each other and change the thesis about what the Emerald Mother is and what the State Office for Croats is outside of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81896	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81897	When political parties in the Republic of Croatia, all political parties will have a relationship with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia within their programme, they will have a common interest in enabling Croats outside the Republic of Croatia to participate in the political life of the Republic of Croatia in an equal manner, especially through voting rights. And I'm stressing our mutual well-being on the occasion that we can make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81898	We are now going to an individual debate of a respected colleague, God Ljubic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81899	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected State Secretary and Associates. So we have before us today the Act on the Emigrants' Motherships Act, which in its contents does not offer much materially new but agrees, therefore, with the Law on Institutions and other acts that the Croatian Parliament has adopted in the meantime. So, the strategy and the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. However, this is an opportunity to talk about the Emigrant Mother herself. So, an institution that has operated for over 65 years and has actually realized its role, communication with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and when Croatia was not independent and when it was a non-democratic regime and when it was not possible, so in the way we do it today, communicate with our emigrants. Therefore, debates on diaspora are generally more present today than ever before because the interests of modern life and all present mobility are linked to globalisation processes and new communication networks. So they create something that we have the right to call new virginity. This gives Croatian emigrants a new and social and cultural integration role at all levels. So, the Emigrant Mother and the overall Croatian institutional framework adapt to these trends. Croatian Emigrant Queen e.g. on average, it implements about 60 programmes each year involving thousands of Croatian young people and girls from all continents, from North and South America, Africa, Australia, Oceania, Europe, etc. Today along with foreigners who want to meet the culture of their friends from Croatia, the cultural tourism of the old country which in a special way encourages the Croatian queen of emigrants, increasingly attracts many descendants of Croatian emigrants, and this comes young people, highly educated. Often with the scarce knowledge of Croatian language and today, less and less to visit their relatives in the old homeland, and more and more to practice cultural, religious tourism by getting acquainted with the sights, cultural heritage of their homeland, from Slavonia, Croatian Zagorje, Istria, Kvarner, Dalmatia, and neighbouring BIH. Such tours, for example, are the most prone descendants of our emigrants from Canada, America, etc. The queen of the emigrants encourages this, and here I also want to say that other subjects are increasingly involved. Since this year, the organization of the Croatian National Assembly of BIH has implemented a project titled ‘Katherina Queen’ where our emigrants from Australia, New Zealand, North America, and even Japan have signed up to visit BIH, and will be able to visit places of cultural, historical and spiritual importance of Croats in general, especially Croats in BIH. The adoption of a strategy on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and the Law on Croatian Relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia created conditions for the establishment of an institutional framework for Croats outside Croatia. The State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia which implements most of this Act, but also the Council of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and here, of course, the Matica that we are putting into this one already achieved institutional framework. Thus, basic legal institutional assumptions were created that we are dealing in one systematic way with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, not only with our emigrants, but with Croatian minorities in neighbouring countries, European countries and Croats in the BiH. And here a few, let me put it this way, positive examples that were actually created in part in the mediation of the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, but also as significant as the self-initiative, independent initiatives of our emigrants. So, ordinary people and artists all, excuse me, just a little bit to finish this fellow. May I continue? ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear it.]] So, ordinary people, but affirmed artists realized their relationship to the old homeland in different ways. I'm going to bring out a very important one here and put it that way, an example. We're just celebrating a gold jubilee, so an emigrant foundation. ... So, 50 years ago, so this highly esteemed and well-known world violinist, together with his wife, founded a foundation that participates in the scholarship of Croatian students to Harvard University, but also, this famous violinist who was admiring, listeners around the world, from New Zealand, across Europe to North America, has donated to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, so... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The violin that was at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in '94. The year was named perhaps the best violin ever made by that famous master. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, this example, this foundation is an example of how our emigrants have been before, and today, so let's remember our scientists from Canada and America who scholarship our students here, the best high school students. Of course, there should not be forgotten Meštrovic, so his donations to galleries and places in the Republic of Croatia. What's also important, what the Emigrant Mother helps, it's volunteering. So, volunteering that was only sometime in the Republic of Croatia four years ago. Among our emigrants in Canada, North America, Europe, etc. For a long time now, and these volunteers have made a huge contribution to their old country of Croatia and BiH, especially during the war. And there was also the Emigrant Matica participated and... which has launched the queen of the emigrants since during the war in the BIH which deals with reconstruction, so to speak, the ecological and cultural heritage and the day-to-day is being maintained. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, colleagues and fellow MPs. Now let me say a few words, so some debates and replicas here in the Parliament that were heard relate, therefore, to issues, therefore, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, Croatian diaspora, minorities and Croats in BIH. The Croatian Democratic Community is doing this in a systematic manner. During that time, the HDZ authorities also adopted a strategy and law. So the central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and HDZ do not use it, so to speak, for a wonderful political and... That's how I say fighting. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For those who want to participate and who want to get to know each other more, they want to inform. So for the next month we will hold three thematic sessions of the Committee on Croatians outside the Croatian Parliament. The first is held tomorrow, bearing the title BiH, the position of Croats in BiH and the European path of BiH. The second is held on the 24th and is engaged in the involvement of the Croatian diaspora in the socio-political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia and the third is held in the second half of 6 months and deals with the sustainable return and remnant of Croats, Croatian exiles, refugees in BiH with special emphasis on Republika Srpska's identity. All of you who have shown concern for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, especially in BiH, are welcome to make your contribution at these sessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81900	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one's a respected colleague, Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81901	Dear colleague. I hope those thematic sessions will give us some new information, for example. how much Croatia sent money here during the Homeland War to this day, because we sent everything from trucks to hoodies to bullets and without them there would be no Croatian state, as if there were no Croats in BiH. That's what you should know. But HDZ was in power for a long time, and it could have accelerated all these processes, double citizenship, to get rid of it as quickly as possible, to get rid of the correspondence vote, to create some kind of database. It could have been done a long time ago. And I can't sit down, I can't accept that someone sabotaged it, why do we have three MPs here today for three million Croats out there? By this one thing I would add here, while there is no mandatory vote in Croatia, that means punishment for non-voting, we will have an imperfect democracy, because some people don't want those 800 000 Croats out there who have the right to vote And I can't vote. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81902	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81903	I agree with my colleague Glasnović that we haven't solved everything. It is right in front of us that, to say the task of the Croatian diaspora, and according to estimates around 3 and a half million Croats live outside the Republic of Croatia, we include in the social political and economic life of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with you that we should work to ensure that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia exercise their right to vote in a constitutional and dignified way and increase the mandate if the majority in this House is achieved for it. However, at this point, it is also important to take advantage of all the opportunities that we now have based on existing laws and the Republic of Croatia and on the basis of the existing institutional framework that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia who possess vast knowledge, enormous patriotism, huge investment potential, to benefit themselves and their old homeland, i.e. in the best possible way, we valorise what the Croatian diaspora can offer us and even in the demographic restoration of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81904	Thank you. Now it's time for my esteemed colleague Tudjman. Another replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81905	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Ljubic, in your discussion among other things, spoke about the cultural influences and ties of the emigrant Croatia with Homeland Croatia, but I think that your discussion should actually be translated into a request and a proposal to amend this article, i.e. supplement this article 3. where it says that the activity of the Croatian Matica is the preservation and development of Croatian national, linguistic and cultural identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. It is a very simple view of the relationship between the identity and the relationship between the country's evicted Croatia because the evicted Croatia also participates in the identity of the Croatian homeland and this contribution, and culturally, and politically, and we have seen and socially, is a far more important and larger thing than just this one dimension being spoken in this first article, so I assume that you are Consent that this article should be amended. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81906	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81907	Thank you, Comrade Tudjman. I absolutely agree with what you said, but it depends on how we read that article. If we're reading it in his entire potential, then I think he means about what you said. If this needs to be further clarified by other sublegal acts or by institutional framework or by the work programme both the Matica and the Central State Office, I absolutely support it. But what I said and at the beginning of my presentation, this globalisation of new, new communication networks actually provide the possibility that even in this sphere, therefore cultural, linguistic, and this is already being realized, we already have online courses of Croatian language organised in collaboration with Croatian universities, organised by the Central State Office, so I think things are moving, but they should certainly be further institutionally developed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81908	Thank you. Now it's time for an esteemed colleague, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81909	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected State Secretary, Emigrant Mother's staff, respected colleagues and colleagues. In addition to this debate, I would like to say something about the Emigrant Matika, in fact, about emigration in general, about evicted Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Although the adoption of new regulations in the Republic of Croatia should, in fact, harmonize certain things with automation, fact, and practice shows us that we don't actually do this, so let's say that this Law on Institutions adopted in 2008, almost 10 years ago, today we're coordinating something about the Emigrant Matica to become a public institution, which is actually worth it. What the secretary of state said at first, and that ex-lege should actually be a public institution, but it didn't happen, and now it's actually just one normative compliance that I welcome, and I don't know why this is going in two readings, I don't think there's any need at all, but when there's no special explanation for the emergency procedure that didn't happen anyway. In 2011, the Croatian Parliament passed a law on which Mr Raguž, the Law on Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatians from Croatia to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, spoke in this law about the unification of all institutions related to Croatian emigrants, including the Emigrant Mother and the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and there might be some additional advice in 2013 that is very important to me. So the Croatian queen of emigrants founded in 1951, so for almost 67 years we can divide it into some two parts by the 1990s and create a modern Croatian state, actually in that time of '51. There was a big wave of emigration of Croats from the Republic of Croatia, I think about 600 to 700.00 by '64. A year. One big part of that so-called. I know that only at that time from the area of Imotska krajina 47% of the working population left the country at the time. Of course, the queen by her mission according to what she represents works hard and works for the preservation of the language and customs and culture of Croats in emigration and Croatian national minorities. What I want to say in this debate, which is that through the Emigrant Matica if you enter the pages at least through the queen.hr you can see one extremely, extremely valuable work of the Emigrant Mother, which includes everything that the emigrants presses. So I will not talk about activities related to workshops, school maintenance, very valuable publishing, publications, very valuable books, but also about the parent yearbook that you have on and on-line pages from 2001 to 2018 where one cross-section can be made of very valuable editions that have included everything related to our emigrants. Now, when you look at, say, Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, which we often visit when we leave either as delegations to other parliaments' calls, we always try to keep in touch with Croats in those countries. Then things happen to us as if we were going one way, and the emigration is thinking to another, we'd say some woods, and the other by road. Why is that? In fact, I don't know if we're aware of the fact that nearly 3.5 million Croats where you say it on your site, some say 3 some 3.8 million Croats as national minorities in 12 other countries and almost half a million Croats as constituent people in BiH are magnets for all of us in the mother country so that through various actions, not only sports, cultural, publishing, it's also thinking about the very current ones, and these are demographic movements, the departures of young people from the Republic and the economy that we can talk about. I'm convinced about the Croats outside the Republic of Croatia that it's an enormous potential that we haven't used. The fact and what Mr. Ljubic and Mr. Raguž are saying, we are talking a lot again about the Croatian Parliament, we are talking about it. Here is Mr. Ljubic also mentioned three thematic sessions certainly very valuable that can contribute to an even greater synergy between Croatia's homeland and the emigrated, for example, the Croatian homeland. Now what exactly happened? What we lack, which is one continuity that we should have had since the 1990s and all of us here, and we have actually made life of people or Croats outside the Republic of Croatia the most difficult, perhaps once in good faith. I also remember the Law on residence, the Law on residence, because of lack of time I can't talk much about it, the Law on Citizenship, let's say in front of me I have the Law on Hungarians outside the Republic of Hungary, it can be spoken... let's say what the French do, so there can be a lot of simplification about Croatians, especially if you want to and Croats as a national minority in the Republic of Austria, which are very lean especially in summer months on the Adriatic coast where we should provide them with certain things that they could do much, much better, as people living in Austria, and actually use the potential of the Republic of Croatia. I also saw on your pages that you are dealing with all those issues that you are asking outside the Republic of Croatia whether it is the judiciary, the MUP, and here there has been a particular talk about a letter vote or he line vote. Therefore, it is clear that there is no possibility of a written vote and there is no possibility of an electronic vote because we have a constitutional provision that says that voting is possible exclusively and only in diplomatic consular offices. What Mr. Shuker was saying in his replica and that's true, it's only done if you can have more polling stations. But remember, I think that's what Mr. Ragug used to say, we also had that previous registration before the elections, which further confuses the Croats, or creates higher costs for them if they want to participate in the public and political life of the Republic of Croatia. So there's a lot of room for improvement. It is at the ministry of foreign affairs, at the respected state secretary, Mrs. Busic, who has a strong sense of Croatian emigrantism. And everything we can use as a potential, through the Emigrant Matika, which I think is doing very well for her job and for the Central Government Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So this space we ourselves need to potential in the Republic of Croatia and enable this synergy and make it more fluid and not any kind of administrative and bureaucratic barriers to make life worse for these people. I'll say it in particular for the area I come from, so it's lying next to the border of BiH, where people come to you in the summer months of 2 or 3 weeks. And they're trying to solve certain administrative matters where it takes them two or three weeks, they actually spend their annual vacation on sorting out such administrative things. The third thing to say is to mention BiH, which perhaps Mr Raguž did not say, is not clear to me how it is possible today in a poor demographic picture that, for example, a children's allowance for Croats working in Croatia's Croatian firms cannot get a child's allowance for their children who, for example, live in the BiH area. It's crazy to me. So if one Germany can do it, Austria, I don't know Sweden, so can we. And in the end, if there is political will, no matter which side, left or right, there is political will, we can use this potential, and this change, the normative change can only help to strengthen the queen of the emigrants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81910	Thank you. Representative Zeljko Glasnovic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81911	Nothing like this, I'm glad you mentioned the Imot landscape and so it was in the '70s, of course, where the gasters covered the deficit of that failed state today. Since Croats are only interested in money, the average Croat, they should know there are about $3 billion, in fact the euro, Croats outside the country, they come here, they spend money, and that's why they should have the right to vote, of course, just for that. China has integrated its diaspora, we haven't, and it's a communist country yet de facto, as we have to some level. We have a lot of people out there who would come here, I should compliment a young lady outside, Tanja Granic... which has now run in Canada, it is also on the board in Canada for Catholic civil rights, runs one parent association as the first breeders, etc., they can help you with this world-wide work, get her out of that position, come here and work with us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one of thousands of people out there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81912	Thank you. Reply to the replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81913	I understand the esteemed colleague Glasovic that you understand Croatian emigrantism because you yourself come from Croatian emigrants. Croatian emigrants are very helpful for the Croatian state, not only abroad, but also for building houses, buying, spending in the Republic of Croatia. And I said, the truth is, by the 1990s, they were considered enemies, emigration, and that was how they were treated, a mental set was created for me entirely guilty, but if you followed me in the debate I said if there was political will, the political will of this legislative body, the government of the Republic, these and former governments, we can use these potentials with one good synergy, I said not only culturally but also economic and demographic and make Croatia an attractive state in which they themselves will come without a call. But we'll wait for that time, believe me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81914	Representative Miroslav Tudjman, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81915	Comrade Babić, you have positively expressed yourself to these programmes of the Emigrant Mother on this synergy that is being created and done, etc., but do you not think that this provision of the article that the Matica is working in the field of the Republic of Croatia is a bureaucratic restriction because for example take British counsil,... , they have outposts in the countries they are interested in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Under this law, the Emigrant Mother couldn't organize her own establishment out there. I mean, if we really want to set up bridges with evicted Croatia, then it shouldn't be possible to have these restrictions, but in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81916	Reply to the replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81917	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I agree with you and I must say that I did not, that I did not notice that part, by reading it I realized through work and structure, we have 5 branches as far as I know in Split, Dubrovnik, Vukovar, Rijeka, which covers Pula and through the very structure, the Mother of Emigration itself. I agree with you, if the Emigrant Mother acts with eviction outside the Republic of Croatia but this, let's say what you just said is actually constraint that she can form as well... that he can have his trust, or the Matrix out there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know how much of a Matice's intensity to do it, I don't think it is, but because she's doing it very well through these programs both for school workshops and for the folklore itself, I think it works out well for me, and as far as I know the visitation is great, which is very good, and especially your marketing department should even more maybe do one step more through the ministry agency to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81918	Representative Tomislav Liposjak called for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81919	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Babić, in your presentation, you actually said something more about the activities of the Emigrant Mother herself. I would read the part in Article 3 that says that the activity of Matica is the preservation and development of the Croatian national and language and cultural identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I had a chance in the previous week to be in BiH and spend a little more time with the Croats in BiH, in fact, talking to these people, one question is often being passed, or one of their appeals related to how they apply for citizenship. In fact, after the application itself, they need to wait for one inappropriate, very long time to resolve themselves, regardless of the outcome of that request and to get an answer. Personally, I believe that for the identity of Croats outside Croatia, the possibility of obtaining citizenship is very important and important, and I believe that this is why both deadlines and procedures themselves could and should be much shorter and thus simpler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81920	Thank you. Replicate response, Agent Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81921	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Lipoščak, it's good that you noticed, we, I remember in the last term when Mr. Shucker was, we talked about it, right about the Law of Citizenship and we said that it should be simplified. I really don't understand why we and bureaucratically make it impossible for Croats who can prove it, plead as such, that they can't get Croatian citizenship faster. There's something else, maybe I said in a hurry, life-important way, like a child's allowance. So the Croats who are from BiH work in the Republic of Croatia, their children have no right to a child's allowance, which is insane. Let's say in this demographic bad picture, we have to do our best, I know that the SDP changed in 2010 or 2011, thinking that it was some huge money that was given to BiH, which is not true at all, but I think it is doing even more damage to the people who are coming right now who are inhabited by Croats from BiH. And thank you for that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81922	Thank you. A representative of Silvano Hrelja reported for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81923	Dear counterpart Babić, I respond to a statement that we may have complicated life for our emigrants, our Croats outside the country. I think that we need to fence here, maybe we are, but only in the section of voting law because I personally think that Croatia is helping even more than its economic opportunities to our fellow citizens abroad. I would rather say that we have made our lives worse for our Croatian citizens in Croatia because of the great gaps we have made, losses and industry and production and major trade and major imports, than we have done to wrong our emigrants and I really underline once again, it can always be better, but I think that Croatia is helping its emigrants more than its economic opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81924	Replicate response, Agent Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81925	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Hrelja, I agree, I don't think I'm talking about material expenditure here, actually the least of it. I think that in one part of Croatian emigration is not necessary at all, on the other hand, there are also Croatian national minorities in other countries that are poor, they cannot have or achieve certain programmes that could do so, and I think that the Croatian state is doing this in a correct way in accordance with its capabilities. Mr Ljubic was actually saying that certain programs should be identified that have far more efficiency than certain fragmentation through some programs that may not be seen but only because of certain political pressures are given. That less, we have to change the mental circuit, stereotypes towards Croatian emigration, that's huge potential, so let's say Armenia what they were doing, Israelis, not to mention their 2 programmes that are related to young people and older ones, Italians, Hungarians. So, we rewrite certain things and I say, they are institutionally good in Croatia, I'm just saying, these laws on residence, residence, we made their lives miserable about polls, active registration, it wasn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81926	Thank you. Representative Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81927	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Babić, here is also on the trail of what fellow Tudjman was saying, in essence what is characteristic of this law, and this stretches and through HAZU is essentially a restriction of our diaspora that it participates in such important institutions that can express their national identity. So this is not the first time that even the management of bodies and branches have no direct access but also, if you remember Croatian Academy is an exclusive that can only appear in Croatia. Therefore, there is this one lack of our active policy that we need to open up to our very diaspora, the days of diaspora accepts its role, and that is the role of being involved in life in the Republic, not only at the vote. The proposal now encourages a referendum, and the prime minister announced that an electronic vote would be given to the diaspora, but also in other bodies should have similar or similar rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81928	Thank you. Replicate response, Agent Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81929	Dear colleague Panenic, truth be told, I do not believe that now the Mother wants to limit herself. The queen of the emigrants does well to do things, she recognizes things, she has big exits to do with the emigrants and they know best what to do. Perhaps the initiatives that should come from Matica towards this legislative body are lagging behind, but the fact is, I don't know if you were when we talked, that's why Mr. Bauk proposed, he was doing some kind of escapades related to the residence law, the residence law, the active registration. I'll just tell you, here, because of the Housing Act we know reliable information that from Metkovic and Imotski's area there people raised their savings that were in millions of euros precisely because they couldn't keep that money in Croatian banks anymore. So we did it ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81930	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Ivan Shuker has signed up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament. So if only today we were to discuss Article 1 of Article 3 which is the activity of the Mother of Croatia, then probably our debate would go in another direction and then probably in one technical request we would think differently. However, today's debate was also touched by the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia and the Law on selecting representatives in the Croatian Parliament and the Law on residence, the Law on residence, so a very colorful topic, because unfortunately, you Croats outside of the Republic of Croatia are currently struggling with such colorful problems. One problem that plagues Croats in BIH, one problem is Croats, above all in Serbia, another problem is Croats in Western Europe, and the third problem is Croats in overseas countries. And this must be solved through different ways, and this one technical law that basically gives some greater legal subjectivity, so to speak to the Croatian Emigrants Queen and in such a way is likely to empower some of the activities that this Matica has done in the past 70s and something else, actually 60s and some years with more or less success, but there was some connection to the emigrated Croatia with the homeland. To help Croats outside Croatia, the State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia was established and very interesting, when we talk about the state budget, when we adopt it, that there is very little debate on laws and regulations concerning Croats outside the Republic of Croatia which can be helped with individual positions in the state budget. Because only then can we talk about helping Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Because then it's about specific positions, it's about concrete monetary amounts, and it's about concrete things where they're going to be and how they're going to be helped. So if they analyzed what has been done in the past 28 years of this country, then they would see how much this aid was despite once limited financial resources, although unfortunately limited and insufficient for those receiving this aid. But there were certain kinds of aids that had disappeared by changing political nomenclatures in Croatia. So one aid that was very helpful to the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was building material for the rebuilding of homes to returnees, was practically missing in one period of time, although it was very helpful at that time. The Ministry of Agriculture had certain programmes to help returnees to certain areas, primarily I think Croatians in the BIH. When we talk about certain diplomatic activities, we must focus first on the problem of Croats in Serbia. So, first of all, the Croats in Vojvodina, their position and their status because Croatia needs to be clearly told as far as national minorities are concerned, perhaps among the greatest rights of all EU members. And do we have such reciprocity and approximately for the Croats in Serbia? We don't, unfortunately. They do not have a guaranteed representative in the Serbian assembly, they have something at local level. Unfortunately, some political actions are making moves to divide the Croatian regiment into Croats and Bunjevce and unfortunately reduces the Croatian Corps. If we jump to Western Europe, and in Western Europe, there are Croats who experienced the first exodus in the late 1960s, in the late 1960s. And other exodus unfortunately experience today. They have a whole other problem, and there is a question of the Law of residence and residence of the most tangling of them. If we go across the ocean, then when you talk to the second and third generations of Croats who went there at the beginning of the century, they have a problem. They're tortured, there's no agreement on social, health insurance. With some of the countries there is no signed agreement on avoidance of double taxation, and those now retired, when they return to their homeland and live there, cannot exercise fundamental rights. They don't have regulated health care and their problem is taxing pensions. So it's for them a key problem at this point, practically looking at it. Because the queen will do this part of her job. One year it's less successful, the second year it's more successful, but it'll work. But these are life problems that we have to think about when we're discussing some other laws. And finally, I will return to those who may be the hardest, and even though they are, the sovereign people in one country, which are Croats in the BiH. Whether or not they wanted to admit, someone mutilated ethnic cleansing in Republika Srpska. And let him look at the spaces around Prijedor, Banja Luka, where the Croats once lived. Those spaces are unfortunately empty and the Croats will probably never return there. Central Bosnia has its own story. That part over there at Zenica and Tuzla has its own story. Hercegovina has her own part of the story, but she's had one stroke, too. Remember that in the years of the Herzegovina Bank, it was the most ordered area of the BIH. And the bank was some sort of foundation for economic independence and strength. In 2005, an international community representative came to the Ministry of Finance and said no irregularities were found there. He said, but the bank was destroyed. The basis for the development of a nation in a particular area has been destroyed. But he ate the donkey wolf, as our people say. And today, when we talk about the rights of Croats in the BiH, we need to fight hard for their political right in the BiH. And also, in the 10th month there are elections in the BIH and we clearly have to send a political message on all messages wherever possible to the Croatian people, that such must be election law in the BIH, that Croatian people choose their representatives because it is legitimately right and it is democratic law. If any people with their votes influence how a representative of Croats will be elected to the BIH, then it is something that is simply not good. And what a sad situation the Croats in BIH are. When I go to my Livno, native Livno, when I see empty villages, so will you go to Tomislavgrad or somewhere else, it's a tragedy. But let us not forget that Croats in BIH were always a demographic stockpile to Croatia. It's a fact that no one can escape from. Go to the cemetery in Slavonia, go to the cemetery all over Croatia and see how many Bosnian and Herzegovian names there are. Today, unfortunately, BiH is not a demographic stock of either the Croats in BiH, let alone a demographic stock of Croatians in Croatia. And when we talk about demographic politics, this is something we can't interfere with. Because if we distract it from the mind, then something, we simply forget the historical facts and finally the Homeland War, shoulder to shoulder the Croats from BiH, Croats from Croatia, Croats from evicted Croatia stood in defense of their country. And as they stood in the defense of their homeland, so we today must think about making laws that will benefit the emigrated Croatia, both Croatians and Croats, so evicted Croats throughout Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81932	Thank you. Agent Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81933	The Honorable President, that is, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for information, i.e. correspondence that came out in the media, I'm looking for a 30-minute break so that we can analyse everything that's come out, which is practically one hard hit by Martini Dalic, Prime Minister Plenkovic and this government. I'm looking for 30 minutes so that not only the MOST club, but other clubs can reanalyze everything that's been published in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81934	Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81935	Thank you very much, Vice President. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club, I'm looking for a break for the same reason, and I'm asking you to explain for two minutes why I'm looking for it. Can I come in here? All right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81936	You have the opportunity to explain the break you intend to request for analysis with members of your club. You can explain in two minutes why you're looking for it. Here. [[Intruder Bunjac: here or below, that's all I'm interested in?]] Two minutes. And after that, a break can be granted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81937	All right. We have just today, I don't know by which times we have come to know clearly that there is a parallelism of government in Croatia. So we have institutions like the Parliament, we have institutions like the Government, we have other judicial bodies, etc. and in Croatia decisions are made in informal groups, on group e-mails where people, who have never been appointed to any working group, where people who have no authority in either government or ministries, or in the Assembly, make long-term decisions concerning the entire Croatian state, economy and society in general. Worst of all, there has been a crime of trade involving influence and privileged information in order for a particular interest group to realise its own material interest, which best confirms the fact that 500 million kunas for so far have been extracted from Agrokor. Advocacy, and if we don't have a deal at the same time, we don't have any deadlines if the whole situation could be resolved and we don't have any solution in the end. This is therefore a situation where it is quite clear that the prime minister and his vice president must resign, and I, among other things, call on the new chief state attorney to react today in accordance with his powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81938	Thank you, too. As a result of the demands of the parliamentary deputies, I am setting a 30-minute recess, and then the replicas go to the individual presentation of counsel Shuker. So we move on at 13:10. [[MEETING AT 12:03]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS]] Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica to representative Ivan Šuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81940	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you've talked a little bit about the problems of Croats in general in the world and the surrounding countries. Yes, of course Croatians who have problems are BiH and Serbia, it is evident that there are the biggest problems. What is it, you were also talking about the finances, that Croatia is singleing out, of course, it is giving out a lot of funds. However, I personally think that Croatians are both in the surrounding countries and in the world the most important political message, that is the most important. It is not as much money as the political simple message that they are welcome and that Croatia is thinking about them. And that's what we have to talk about here in the Parliament and we have to point it out. I had nothing else. And yes, the BiH elections, we should now be preparing to make, not a month before the elections, but from today, to prepare the elections for BiH to set it up and see which Croats, whether they can vote through the institutions and how to allow them to go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81941	The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Misic, already needs to be given through various visions, informing information to those who have the right to vote in the BiH elections. However, why did I reason my discussion in this way? Well, because there are dozens of laws debated by this High House through which the problems of Croats outside Croatia can be discussed. However, unfortunately here today, everything has been heard and nothing but the law on one technical law, although today it might be good to have talked about what Matica did in the previous years and whether this is an organisational form and how this is predicted to guarantee that this work will be able to rise up for a certain level of quality. We were supposed to discuss this in my opinion today. However, simply through my debate I just wanted to warn you of... problems faced unfortunately by Croats outside Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81943	Thank you. Representative Ante Babic, reporting for the replica, is not here. Representative Bozo Ljubic is not here either. We continue with individual participation in the debate, she was contacted by Agent Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81944	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about this Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Emigrants Queen. According to the explanation that we have been given the motives for this change of other laws, this law of the sea, i.e. the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants, must be brought into line with these laws. On the other hand, what has already been said and I agree with should also praise all these efforts and programs that the Emigrant Mother has had so far, on which she is working. However, it seems to me that this should not only be seen as one technical or technical law of harmonisation with other laws but we should look a little further into the future to redefine, or expand the competences of the queen of emigrants. In particular, what is said on the one hand is that the founder of Matica Republic, the second is that the activity of Matica is of interest to the Republic of Croatia but is then defined as a primary interest in the activities of Matica in the preservation and development of the Croatian national language and cultural identity of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I have already said in replicas that it is one, at least as regards the formulation one one one-way process because it does not count or emphasize the contribution of the emigrated Croatian identity of the Croatian people, or Croatian culture as a whole. On the other hand, I think that this law should be extended with the obligations or ambitions that the Emigrant Mother should have, and that is to say that she promotes and develops the unity of the country's evicted Croatia, which is a very different dimension than this cultural dimension that is primarily highlighted. If we say that this is the unity of the country's emigrated Croatia, then it should also be said that this community should, the programme of this community should be planned and coordinated with the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia with the foreign policy on that segment in which it relates to the evicted Croatia because we also have a relationship with Croats abroad and Croats in BiH. Thus, with such redefining, i.e. by expanding the role and tasks of the Emigrant Mother, we have received one more consistent programme, we have received what a number of institutions in the world have been doing for decades, such as the British Council or some other specialised institutions that promote their national institutions through national interests through these forms of work. In this sense, it would probably be more consistent, publishing activity which is mentioned here, and in any case it is commendable but not only to the cultural dimension but also to promote Croatian national interests where the Emigrant Mother could be the point that would continuously publish books that would interpret Croatian interests and Croatian views and be one framework for promoting these interests abroad. On the other hand, we have two bodies that they have in some way, they are focused on the same population of the Emigrant Matica, and the second central state office for Croats abroad, and it seems to me that this law should nevertheless indicate what these differences are. The central state office for Croats abroad is one executive body, so to speak, with other powers than what the Emigrants Mother has, but the Croatian Emigrants Matica could be the focal point where the problems with which the emigrants of Croatia can be addressed, where they can be collected, where they can be analysed and where they can be interpreted in some way without simply having an executive intelligence. In this respect, such a provision would also be desirable to enter into a description of the activities of the Croatian Emigrant Queen in this law. Simply as it has already been said, all of these problems since the acquisition of citizenship, from one problem that is not mentioned here, which is, for example, the demands of our emigrants to book in land books or property books, we can see a little bit of the debate...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81945	Excuse me. Assembly representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81946	The issue of ownership that is simply insecure but at least to explain to people how, by which laws, which addresses can solve it because these are the problems they are facing and one good part is disappointed that such things are not able to solve in relatively short time. This would be the key thing to point out in this law, meaning that from this cultural dimension it extends to a social and political dimension with one ambition, that the Croatian Emigrant Queen should be the place where it will connect to both political and cultural and scientific factors and factors in certain countries. I have also said that the problem of restricting activities in the organisational sense is only one limiting factor in the area of the Republic of Croatia because there is no reason not to open up the possibility for the Croatian Emigrants to open outposts in Germany, Canada or BiH. So he would ask that the draftr of this law consider these options and see what is acceptable in order to open the space for the work of the Croatian emigrant queen on new grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81947	Agent Beljak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81948	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of HSS MPs, I'm looking for a 30-minute break in order for everyone to consult together on the biggest affair since the mid-90s since the privatisation robbery we have had the opportunity to read about certain media. Absolutely. [[Invader Petrov: Do you want to explain the duration of the 2 minute break?]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder Petrov: Here you go.]] So, what came out today through the media unfortunately is proof that Evidence that the affair that has been being discussed for months in the Croatian Parliament, that it is somehow trying to amortize it with a non-stop story about Agrokor, so people are already sick of Agrokor, but what has come out today if it is authentic, then we can say that 500 million kunas, or half a billion cannot possibly be a negligible affair. [[Intruder Petrov: I would ask parliamentary representatives to refrain from commenting.]] It is that if all this is expensive and true, it is the biggest affair in Croatia or the biggest robbery of Croatia and what remains of Croatia by Mrs Dalic, and it is that Mrs Dalic should clarify or withdraw criminal charges against people who have published such compromising materials or should go and help Mr Plenkovic and the entire Croatian government on her own and resign. This behavior, if repeated, this is all authentic, which we can read on the portals is absolutely inadmissible and this is evidence I repeat, if it's authentic, it's proof that it's really a deliberate robbery of 500 million kunas from a company where the state has invested in the past 25 years a lot and a lot of billions of kunas through various incentives and through the political assistance that Agrokor and Mr. Todorovic first of all from HDZ and then the other parties that have accumulated in the government at that time and who, by their political influence, created this inflatable balloon that blew up a year ago, and it was called, or still called Agrokor. Instead of leaving everything to the market, it went to law enforcement, if I repeat, this authentic law was directly written by Mrs. Dalic, and he marks the legal robbery of half a billion kuna and therefore I ask that all the club representatives consult during the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81949	Agent Beljak, I know you've been looking for 30 minutes. Is it possible 10 minutes? Is it really 30?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81950	Only because of your decency do I agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81951	Thank you. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. We'll start work at 13:05. MEETING AT 12:50 A.M. We're going back to work. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 13,00 HOURS]] A representative of Stevo Culej reported for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81953	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian diaspora, along with its contribution, was the largest in the Homeland War both financially and morally and all other support they have given us, is not adequately represented in Croatian society and neither in the Croatian Parliament nor on. We need to look for reasons among those who have hindered their progress in doing so. We have Croats outside of Croatia in Serbia who do not have any rights, but have their life rights at stake. The last furious attacks by Chetnik Vojislav Seselj and his squads, which they call it, attacked the Krtkovci, where the gendarmes prevented him from doing so. What if they hadn't stopped him? Whether a new village of Bor would happen or repeat what he did in '91.? When Serbian Prime Minister Barnabic speaks of the fact that there is no place for Croats in the Serbian parliament, I compare it with our parliament where we have very many minority representatives, whether too many or too little, we will determine it over time, but the fact is that no one has qualified to defend our minorities in their countries of origin, where they would have contributed with their voice that there are no such rabid threats and attacks on our endangered minority outside Croatia. When we talk about Croats in BIH, we can't go back in time. If we had led the institutions of those and ministers, ministers who betrayed their country said Croatia had committed aggression against the BiH. It is the biggest attack by the official, foreign minister, which is the message of such a minister that she says her country has committed aggression against the neighbouring country and thus opened Pandora's box that lasts day and day. And day and day, we have the consequences of moving out, of running away from the Croats with the entire families from the BIH who gave them that? Such a minister and those who sat in the Croatian Parliament did not care about their Croats outside Croatia. I'll read another one that made it possible for the Croats to be persecuted and evicted from the BiH. He says this, Mladen Bajic, an agreement, on the Croatian side, was signed by then state attorney Mladen Bajic, and on behalf of the BIH chief prosecutor Goran Salihovic. In no case have the RS authorities requested documentation related to crimes committed on their territory, while BiH investigators have dug up thousands of pages of documents related to former HVO members. Documentation of HVO by the orders of previous Croatian authorities... So Mladen Bajic signs an agreement and allows the prosecution of the neighbouring BIH, which our foreign minister claims that we Croats have committed an aggression against them and they come uninterruptedly to Croatian archives, dig through these archives, copy what they need, and with these same documents they go to the BIH and there squat, work out indictments and wait for an ambush when they apply it to Croatian defenders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At the same time, those in charge of committing crimes and the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes against Croats and others do nothing. No investigation has been brought by any documents from Sarajevo and they have had the possibility of why they did not, we should ask ourselves and them in the Croatian Parliament. Remember the persecution of Croatian defenders, General Matuzovic and Orasja Bosnian Posavina. Let's remember the six in The Hague, General Praljko. Let's remember and soon someone will probably let us know about Mrkonjic City. All of this was made possible by those who swore and who swore to work in the interest of Croatia, today they are silent, they are not here either because I would certainly ask here why you said it, why you did it, in the name of who and in the name of what. We do not speak blasphemy but I tell you, we speak only from the knowledge and knowledge available to me through my work this short in the Croatian Parliament. Why was I president of the Croatian Justice Committee for one day? Imagine that, Stevo Culej, president of the Croatian Justice Committee. One day, exactly one hour. You know why? Well, because on that day at the time of the government of Tomislav Karamark, we organized a meeting of the Joint Committee on Justice and Defence. The same meeting was attended by Minister Tomo Medved, the minister of justice of Šprlje, were historians Ante Nazor and Ivo Lucic, the media were respected and everything was wonderful and wonderful until the session itself was not to be started. At that moment, a second before the beginning of the session, the secretary comes and says Mr. Culey, please chair this session because you are running on the list, President Arsen bauk is prevented from coming, the second one is never determined, and you are third, please hold the session. At the same time, I look at it, but I don't even have materials on my desk. And the theme is you know which one was? Protecting the interests of the six in The Hague and General Pralik the deceased. Why didn't the chairman of the Justice Committee attend? Why did Peja Grbin get up and leave the same meeting? For one reason only, they didn't want to help the defenders and the generals who were in The Hague. Is this the assistance of the Croatian Parliament, of our committees for which many have shed tears and those who still serve their goal for our interests so that we sit here and enjoy many of what they have not earned? To enjoy a Croatian kuna? Is this how the Croatian state helps its diaspora, its Croats outside Croatia? It's not. Let us ask ourselves when the time comes whether we have done enough and do not weep over the fate of the Croats from Bosnia, Serbia, and especially from the diaspora because not many had a common goal, a common dream. That's why some got involved and today they're working against both the Croatian diaspora and the Croats outside Croatia. What are we gonna do, who's next? For what? Which is why our Croatian commanders Mijo Jelic and many others... Without a leg and without a hand that came from France, from Paris to defend his Mostar, he lost his leg and his arm at 19.5 years old. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He can't go to Mostar for his grandfather, what have we done for those people? What did Minister Orepic do when he was Minister of the Ministry of Interior? He cleaned up the little Croats that ran into us and hid for what? Where's his report on what he did? How many of those reported 50 left at an address in Vukovar? And how many Croatians from the Nuts had to go back to the Nuts, and now they're waiting... A sword that hangs over their necks and over their heads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81954	There are three replicas, but before that, if possible, thank you. Representative Miro Bulj called first for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81955	Comrade Culej, I would agree with you that Croatian minorities are forgotten by all policies. We must tell everyone, and those who are public, you mentioned counterpart Pusic who said the aggression was committed in BiH. They made their point clearly, and what are we going to say about this, arrest, locate, transfer, deliver? What shall we say to those who sold under the cover of patriotism our most prominent sons? Well, yeah, it's true. No one visited the tent to Minister Sprlje, no one. No minister left alone. Even your secretary, then the secretary didn't want the book to be subsidized by the law of General Praljak, no one visited them, no one asked them. Croats in BiH, I have the right to say that because I spent a year in the Homeland War in the area, along with the HVO, no one visited or remembered them. And I'm more in pain by these people who are calling for patriotism and using them as exploiting raw materials just for votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81956	Thank you. Replication response, Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81957	My colleague Bulj, you and I are witnesses in the Croatian Parliament, besides those voters who gave us votes, that the Croatian people throughout history knew how to separate those who were Jews and those who fought and gave everything for the Croatian homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81958	Representative Allen Prelec has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81959	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Culey, I'm not a lawyer for any of these colleagues you've called, but at least the minimum correctness would have been if you'd told them when they were sitting here in the Parliament, explaining why they were doing something and not doing it. And this was incorrect of you to call them this way. I'm sorry that you think you're the only representative of Croatian interests here in the House because you're sitting there on the right side and we're probably not really Croats like those on the left. Here's what hurts me. And don't give yourself the right to be the only one who protects Croatian interests. There are also a few smaller Croats on this left-hand side so please respect this, as I respect you sitting there on the right-hand side, respect at least the minimum of your colleague sitting on this other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81960	Thank you. Representative Culey's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81961	My friend, I know the truth hurts. If I was sitting on this side or on the middle, on any side, I'd be doing the same thing. With me are rare who will drink and who have had coffee with me in the Croatian Parliament. For one reason I am working at the 5th exhibition in the Croatian Parliament and you have not been able to come to see the historical truth of what happened in the Croatian people. No, you're not interested in that. And the colleagues I mention are not the first or the last to mention them and they will hear me well as long as I am in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81962	Representative Panenic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81963	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Culey, here's just another addition to your exposure. I'm glad there are, let's say, positive sides of the application of any law. And I am glad that there will be no buses coming from Serbia that will vote with us in the county, with you and with me and which team will affect the elections and we are all aware that these people do not live with us in the county, that they only come when your partner in the SDSS government, organizes them, brings them, to change in the elections what on the ground did not succeed in the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81964	Replication response, Agent Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81965	My colleague Panenic, I know you're telling the truth, you're a truthful man, but I'd also say the action was good if at the end of the campaign I'd file a report, from the reports I saw what the good parts of that action and what the bad sides were. The dismemberment of the action did not determine how many of Serbia's buses were prevented from coming and how many of our buses were expelled with families in Oresje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81966	Thank you. Representative Maras, come in for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81967	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are looking for a break in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for one thing to consult within the club and it is related to the situation where Ms. Martina Dalic, I would say that she lost the trust of Croatian citizens regarding the derogation of the Croatian state, not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament, in a way that she left serious state affairs to private consultants who later apparently charged through Agrokor. And we are looking for this opportunity for Prime Minister Plenkovic to respond to the Croatian Parliament to give us his own answers. And we are also looking on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives of the State's Attorney General Damir Jelinic to answer whether there are potential crimes because in the past period, the state's attorney has opened certain cases on the basis of media information and even reacted very quickly with certain answers. So once again I say, we are looking for the State's Attorney's Office to open this case to see if there have been any failures, whether Ms. Martina Dalic has sinned about the law and committed certain criminal acts that I personally consider to have elements and that the story is eventually closed or that Croatian citizens return trust in the Croatian state because it is obvious that some have acted as if they were their own, as if the Republic of Croatia is their story and that they can do whatever they want because they are here with God days to save things and know everything about everything. So the boastful behavior that comes from these e-mails is enough for the political responsibility and shift of Ms. Martina Dalic, but I believe there are also crimes and I ask again on behalf of the club to open the case and look at what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81968	Thank you. Then I'll set a 10-minute break. We'll continue at 13.35 p.m. It's 1:00 P.M.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81969	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER A MEETING AT 1 3:30 A.M.]] Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81970	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished secretary with her assistant. At the end of the day, I would just say that on the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrant Matika in which she was first read, you have heard a number of thoughts. Of course, everything went also in the direction of discussing minority problems, i.e. emigrants, but mostly minorities, both in the area of Serbia and BiH. The fact is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not work, not for the last year, but for years the role that the trial was to do and the Croatian policy, which is its obligation under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to take care of Croats outside Croatia, mainly in BiH. The fact that Croats in the Republic of Serbia, minorities, have virtually no rights, do not have a special list, we simply have a representative by nationality of Croats who has been elected from the national list, that is a fact. The fact is that our policies leading towards the Republic of Serbia are simply dodgy and they are not clear to anyone and can't be clear until the moment, the distinguished secretaries, when Croatian diplomacy is coping with Serbian diplomacy for a list of missing, for war damage, means for documentation complete that will find those missing and all they need to have minorities, what they have in Croatia, that they have in other countries as well. Unfortunately, it is not so, so our President of the Parliament goes to Serbia counting on Vukic, who, of course, was an assistant to Seselj, and Seselj is a Chetnik, with flowers, not, he won't, because we are courtesans. Until that moment, there is nothing Croatian diplomacy can do with these people until they show the will to solve the problem. While the president of Serbia is coming to Croatia, and is not apologizing in Glina, first of all to the Croats, but also to his fellow Serbs, because he called for the borders of Greater Serbia and then a great miracle, but that is welcome, the HDZ has come to this great story to go to Serbia. And all the problems according to the diaspora, simply diaspora served them just as an exploitation for the elections, voice exploitation, nothing else. Croats in BiH do not have... As other peoples have, the minority are in the Federation, it was not fought, Croatian Generals in HAAG left after 12 years and for the first time Minister Sprlje. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The current Culture Minister Obuljen did not co-finance their books, General Praljak refused in 2009, which is why he was completed. Was that helping those people who were defending themselves? Within the appeal period, they defended the honor, not only of their own, but of Croatia, which was then charged with aggression against BiH in the second degree, while it lasted first-degree, the second stage did not submit a single complaint proposal until the verdict came to an end. Well, that's a shame. Well, these people weren't just fighting for themselves, they were fighting for Croatia and BiH against the great Serb aggressors, that's a fact. They don't care, they don't care, the politicians of Croatia who simply ran the service policy, Brussels or whose, therefore, national minorities in BiH and Serbia do not have the same conditions as national minorities in Croatia, and that is one of the key problems. What is there to do here, I know, here in the Parliament is the majority, what does the President of the Republic of Serbia have to do if he has no intention of solving problems with Croatia? Well, he was a Chetnik. Is that clear to people? Yes, in Glina, he urged people to slaughter their neighbours, he tried to apologize to the Serbs, but of course, they were reactions, I was the first to solve the problem with Serbia, but I don't have to expect that from Seselj and Vukic my people. So he came to mock here. So minority, the Serb minority is the national ruling in the Croatian Parliament along with HDZ. Can you experience it in Serbia? That the Croatian national minority, the Croatian national minority party to be, will not experience it. For what? Because... politics, because Seselj's student must never apologize for all the evils he has committed in Croatia, so is Izetbegovic towards the Croats, the same thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81971	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Just for your information, I hope you know that, maybe it was a lapus. The Croats are a constituent people in BiH, not a minority. We move on to the final word. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Mrs Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I warmly thank all the gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of counsel for the debate. But I would also say that here in this debate, in fact, we discussed more about the law on relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the strategy and relations with Croats outside, the competences of the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and their and the Ministry of the Network, the DKP, meaning diplomatic consular offices, and we discussed it in fact about competencies, and somehow, as if it were all in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Emigrant Mother, which is not. So it was debated of course, the Croatian queen of emigrants. The Croatian Emigrants Queen is only one of the holders of the Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and there will be opportunities for the strategy and the Law to speak further in the future as the amendments are foreseen in the government's 2019 normative plan for the Republic of Croatia. I would, respected MPs and MPs, just say a few words about the legal framework of the Croatian Emigrant Queen, her role and her responsibilities. Very short. Because I'm saying, the debate was more focused on the central office than on the Emigrant Matrix. As we pointed out, it is necessary to reiterate that the founder of the Croatian Emigrant Queen is the Republic of Croatia, and the founding rights on behalf of the Republic of Croatia are carried out by the central state body responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Croatia and Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, and this competent body is, as we all know, the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. So, the Office is the central body of the government for all relations, we've already said that to the Republic of Croatia outside of it. So there is also a strategy and the Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside Croatia. The office is precisely with its targeted activities, meaning this Central Office programmes and projects are working intensively to strengthen these relations. We support and cooperate on a daily basis with all three categories of Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, not spending much time and not stressing. So, you could hear a lot of what we did for the Croats in BIH, we're going to have a special discussion, and here, we've already announced three thematic sessions of the Committee on what we're looking at, and we're going to be taking part in that, too. We also talked about relations to our national minority in Serbia. Here, Mr. Milas, who heads the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, was here, a few days ago he was in Serbia and was with the Croats and held the Committee there and is also active on all sides, and then I also want to reply to you at the same time to Mr. Hajdukovic, a representative who mentioned that Croatia is not helping the minority in Hungary. I have to say here and point out that it absolutely doesn't stand, that that's not true. I was here last week, on Friday in Hungary, I was in Pechuh and I saw for myself how much the Croatian state invested and what it invested and how good we have relations with Croatians, or Croatian national minorities in Hungary, and how we cultivate and maintain it. In fact, the Intergovernmental Committee on Minority Relations is one of the examplars in Europe. One of the best and it's already been praised. So, we have so much cooperation and we realize, and just to look back on what Mr. Hajdukovic, MP Hajdukovic emphasized. I was on Friday, so here I am, a few days ago at the school centre of Miroslav Krleža where only Croatia invested 750 thousand euros in the centre. So, also the Croatian theatre that works exactly, most of them invested Hungary, so in the same way we invest, that is, we are going to completely build a student home for the Hungarians in Osijek because it is reciprocally mutually, we have to stress that. So this isn't true. I would ask you, gentlemen, that we somehow pay attention when we qualify for some of the things we do, and what we don't do, with all due respect for everything that's been said here. Here, it's me, and as far as I'm concerned, here's what I'd like to point out. 4. The queen can't because it's simply not defined by law, she can't act officely outside the Republic of Croatia. And here, I could do a lot more. So, just to re-emphasise that the central state office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia is the central body of the state administration that is coordinating, it is coordinating in fact all relations and it is the holder of these relations with Croats outside of Croatia, and I'm afraid that here we have somehow directed everything as if it were the work of the Croatian queen of emigrants, and it really is not. The queen is actually, let's say again, a public institution, and the Central Office is something else. The office is working and carrying out activities that some of you, the esteemed representatives, have today emphasized. And here it is, in conclusion, and I could still set it apart. Dear Mr. Culej, we really care about the Croats and well, I know, I fully understand everything you said, but we do do very much for the Croats in Serbia and how you could also see, lately how and how we respond to all these attacks and insults and here we are, Mr. Milas was a few days ago in the Krtkovci, as well as other officials of the Republic. Please, sir. Here, so in conclusion I want to say that the Croatian Emigrants Mother has her place, doing excellent things, doing things that we can really be proud of, which are and I want to stress again, are culture, tradition, identity of the Croatian people that I can witness in the other times that were harder, we somehow relied on what was written in the Matica. Then she was different. Then she was in the genitals, and today she's still in the nomination. But there's only one more, if you'll let me. You say there's always a way to say it, we help Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to remind you, if I may ask, we're helping them, they're helping us. We are helping each other, and we must always say that as much as it has helped us, as much as it has helped them today, some of these endangered groups, of course smaller than we say, are not at risk, but simply... As I was, and let's say, I saw a Croatian minority in Romania where they live in their small community and maintain a relationship that is truly commendable to the Republic of Croatia, but at the same time they are somehow proud of their new homeland, but they maintain a relationship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as much as we need to help and help these small communities, as much as we need them to help us and stick together. So, say finally, let's make a deal about one. We don't help them, they help us, we help each other. Just like family needs to help each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81973	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mrs. Zdravki Busic. Replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81974	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues Bušić, you have visited, as far as I know, almost the whole world where the Croats live. I would ask you what your impression of their desire to listen to you, to hear about Croatia and how much you have gained the impression that they really want to do so and return to the Republic of Croatia. Of course, the Croatian Office is one refreshment, I would say, in our newer time and the Office of course makes a lot of work and I think it's a good thing that the Croats simply have, here as you mentioned already in Hrtkovci went around Zvonko and around Posavina and by BIH, everywhere around the world and that's what, I would say a nice motive, a beautiful wheel that opens, I would say eyes towards Croatia and feel one security and we give them a message that they should stay there and of course, and if they want to go back to provide them with the quickest return and easier... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81975	I thank Mr. Muscle for the replica. Answer, Secretary of State Zdravka Busic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81976	Thank you very much. Mr. Misic, I can only tell you that wherever I came from, they were very happy to listen to me and I was very happy to listen to them, and I can tell you that there is mutual agreement, understanding, so if you want the affinity at a high level, and so I will continue as it was, as it was in Romania and in Gradisto and Peru in that one Croatian community that doesn't speak Croatian at all. It means we're doing a lot of work, and I hope we'll do more to the pride of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81977	I would like to thank Ms. Zdravko Busic for her reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Secretary of State Mrs. Zdravki Bušić of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and Deputy Secretary of State of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia Ms. Ivani Perkusic for the reasons and for the discussions on this Proposal for the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Mat. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81978	Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Emigrant Matika, first reading, P.Z. Number 330, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: First, the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Emigrants Matika is accepted. All other comments and proposals will also be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 2 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81979	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Annual defense report for 2017. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty. 8. Defense laws. The hearing was conducted by the relevant Defence Committee. I call on Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstičević to explain the 2017 defence report. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81980	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the Law on Defence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits the Annual Defence Report to the Croatian Parliament, which gives representatives and the public insight into the state of defence in 2017. The annual report is a demonstration of activities in the defence portfolio in the previous year and is an important mechanism of democratic supervision that enables the activities and activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Ministry in particular in the development of defence capabilities through the availability of trusted financial resources. The annual report on the defence of the widest public provides insight into the achievements and work of the defence portfolio, thus contributing to the building of trust in the defence institution and the stability of civil-military relations. When drawing up the Annual Defence Report, they took into account the views, remarks and proposals of the representatives and deputies in the Croatian Parliament in the debate on the 2016 Annual Defence Report. The global, political and security environment maintained the characteristics of instability during 2017 followed by increasingly less predictable security challenges and threats. Changes in the balance of global economic and military power pose new challenges to traditional alliances and violate the cohesion of multilateral structures, making certain countries redefine strategic priorities and foreign-political objectives. Three related initiatives, a mechanism of continuous structured cooperation, PESCO, a coordinated annual defence review and the European Defence Fund play a key role. Cooperation with each other has progressed most in the fight against hybrid threats, the development of defence capabilities, defence industries, research, and the building of the security defence capacities of partner countries in the eastern and southern neighbourhood. cyberspace is increasingly becoming a polygon of information warfare and other forms of security endangering citizens of institutions and states. During 2017, the creation and implementation of the defence policy focused on the process... of a new National Security Strategy and establishing the basis for the establishment of the Homeland Security System. Special attention is paid to the re-affirmation of the experiences and values of the Homeland War as the basis for the construction of a professional code of members of the Croatian Army through an inclusive transparent pathway, the process of drawing up a National Security Strategy involving representatives of state administration, academic community, civil society and media. The Croatian Parliament adopted the National Security Strategy on 14 July 2017 and on 27 October 2017. The Act on the Homeland Security System, setting out a new framework for action and implementation of defence reforms for the defence portfolio. Changes in the strategic environment highlighted the role of the defence portfolio in the newly established home security system, the obligation to develop new capabilities accepted at NATO level and the impact of accelerated technological development on the way in which the war was conducted required the launch of the process of reviewing existing defence solutions. The Ministry of Defence therefore carried out a process of strategic review of the defence and a final report on the results of the review was drawn up. Final assessments and recommendations of the Strategic Defence Review set strategic guidelines for the work of the Defence Resolution in the upcoming period, as well as the basis for the development of a new long-term development plan. After years of collapse of the defence budget, we were able to stop the trend of its reduction which slowed down the dynamics of the development of defence capabilities and undermined the quality of meeting international obligations. In 2017, it is an important milestone that, with a projection of the increase in defence allocation for next year, speeds up the development of capabilities for the successful implementation of missions, tasks within the Homeland Security System. The activities of international defence cooperation in 2017 focused on supporting the development of defence capabilities with a focus on those developing in the context of the implementation of NATO's capacity targets. Bilateral defence cooperation focused on strategic allies and partners in the field of security and defence and on support activities, strengthening stability and security in Southeast Europe and cooperation with neighbouring countries. The most important partners in 2017 were the United States, Germany, Poland, the UK of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, France and neighbouring countries and countries of particular interest in the regional security of Hungary, Slovenia, Italy, BiH, Montenegro, Kosovo and Macedonia. The United States is the main strategic ally and partner of Croatia in the area of security and defence. Excellent defence relations were confirmed on the occasion of Defence Minister James Mattis' visit in July 2017. During his visit, Defence Minister Mattis stressed that military red tape operations are being studied at US military schools that have shown that well-led, trained and equipped armies under good political leadership can change the course of history. A meeting with the Federal Republic of Germany Defence Minister Ursula von der Leyen in the Republic of Croatia was held in October 2017 after ten years of the last meeting of the defence ministers of the two states. For the first time in ten years as defence minister, I am going to Berlin for a meeting with the defence minister. The backbone of co-operation with Poland was the co-operation of special forces and cooperation in the military technical field. The strengthening of defence cooperation has contributed to the engagement of our members and the battle of the self-defying multi-civil missile launchers in the United States-led battle group. That's where we showed solidarity with the Polish people. On the occasion of his visit to the British Defence Minister, a memorandum on improving defence and security co-operation, which is the basis for even stronger and more content cooperation, was also signed. Co-operation with BiH concerns the Croatian provision of expertise in functional areas of education and training and defence planning. It is particularly important to support the BiH accession process with Euro-Atlantic integration. In 2017, the Croatian Army fully fulfilled its role and successfully carried out all missions and tasks. All activities have been carried out in the function of fulfilling the missions and tasks defined by the Constitution, the law and the strategic documents. The Croatian Army is the protector of our sovereignty, our independence, our power to defend territorial integrity. Our members in all activities are focused on preparing for the performance of the constitutional role as well as on the implementation of other missions and tasks. The overall development of capabilities is primarily focused on the first mission, and in the peacetime conditions of activities in the execution of this mission were aimed at deterring, controlling airspace and maritime space. The Croatian Army has become a brand in operations and missions, and our members contribute daily to strengthening the reputation of the homeland. In the area of staff management, an analysis of the implications of the reduction in the number of personnel to the size established by the long-term development plan has been carried out. Therefore, the Government established a proposal for a new decision on the size, composition and mobilisation of the armed forces, which the President of the Republic made in February 2017, thus increasing the size of 14,376 persons employed by military forces until 31 December 2017 and increasing the number of civil servants and armed officers by 886 persons. In 2017 we declared the year of the Croatian soldier, officer and officer. We have invested a lot of energy and resources to improve the living conditions of the work of members of the Croatian Army. The proposed amendments to the law aimed at promoting man as the centre of gravity of the victorious Croatian Army, which was adopted in March this year. Our soldiers were returned with a field allowance, a guard and duty fee, that was taken from them before. People are our greatest value and strength, investing in improving the quality of working conditions is the safest investment in the construction of the Croatian army. By moving the works of the Croatian Army troops, returning the army to Vukovar and Sinj, this year in Ploče and Varazdin, we have enabled a large number of people to approach the workplaces and thus improve the quality of life of their families. With the new normative arrangement, we have made it possible to reward more justly the recruitment of soldiers, officers and officers in tasks. In 2017, following the amendment of the Food Regulation in the OS which entered into force on 1 January 2017, there was an equalisation of the price of the subsidized meal for all officers and officers, military specialists and military police officers and civil servants and subsistence officers. Before the officer had one diet, an officer the other and a soldier the third. In 2017 due to increased interest in voluntary military training, for the first time since 2008. 3 manual deadlines were conducted and 1092 handbooks were successfully completed. In 2017, the cash compensation for voluntary handbooks was increased from 1200 to 2000 kuna for each month of a successful training programme. The Croatian people love their army, for the first time since 2008, an important competition was launched in 2017 for the reception of 65 state officials with working experience and young people directly from college who started working at the Ministry of Defence in February this year. This led to a major step in the rejuvenation of staff in the category of civil servants, given that the last public tender for admission to the state service with a number of executives was carried out 10 years ago. The process of transforming the Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tudjman to a higher education science facility. The organisation of graduate university studies and the establishment and presentation of an integrated university study programme of military seafaring. It leaves at the 9th month. The number of women among the active military personnel from year to year was on the rise and there were 11.5% of women in the defence portfolio on December 31st 2017. In 2017, 785 soldiers were employed in the service, the first officer's rank received 108 lieutenants. 9 cadets, 74 soldiers, and 16 candidates for officers, missing professions from the labour market, of which 6 doctors of medicine were addressed to the basic officer training in September 2017. During 2017, the issue of insufficient aircraft technicians was addressed. We have reached a decision on the scholarship of third and fourth grade students of Rudolph Pereshin Air and Technical School from Velika Gorica and the Technical School of Zadar for aviation profession specialists. In March 2018, 50 grant agreements were signed. During 2017, all 6 pedestrian regiments with the active development core were established. After 19 years, a ten-day training and combat shooting of a group of classy pedestrian company reservers was carried out. The response was great. It is important to note that for the first time in 2017, a Croatian contingent was sent to Afghanistan, which was fully equipped with Croatian weapons and equipment, which shows that the Ministry of Defence is an important partner of the Croatian defence industry and a development generator and promoter of Croatian products. In accordance with the conclusion of the Defence Council, on 6 April 2017, which identified the need for decision-making, development opportunities and modes, the capacity to protect airspace, an expert team was set up to carry out preparatory actions on the procurement of a multi-purpose combat aircraft. The project aims to retain the capacity to protect airspace by equipping a four-generation multi-purpose fighter aircraft. A strategic partnership has been established through long-term political economic co-operation and the achievement of investment aimed at affecting the development of the Croatian military industry and the economy as a whole. A tactical technical study of a multi-purpose combat aircraft was carried out, approved by the Chief of Staff on 10 July 2017. The Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament was informed at its session on 5 July 2017 about the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence regarding a multi-purpose combat aircraft. A request was made for the offer of a multi-purpose combat aircraft which was sent to 5 countries on 20 July with the time limit of supply of the offer on 3 October 2017. The validation and evaluation carried out a detailed analysis of the tenders to determine whether all requests for data have been sent with the appropriate answers and their analysis and assessment according to the designated domains and under the domains defined by the supply request. On the 30th of November 2017, a feasibility study giving the proposal for a selection including risk analysis and projection of the total cost of using a multi-purpose combat aircraft as the best bidder has been completed. On 14 December, the Defence Committee unanimously supported this procurement process. On 27 March 2018, the Defence Council unanimously supported the procurement procedure of a multi-purpose combat aircraft and the Government adopted a final proposal from the expert team and a recommendation from the Defence Council at its meeting on 29 March 2018 and decided on the procurement of a multi-purpose combat aircraft and decided that the most favourable offer was made by the State of Israel. We are now in the process of preparing the contract. During 2017 there were 118 vehicles... Patria, different versions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 8 weapons systems of a remote-operated weapons station, a 30 mm cannon with a system of anti-armed guided missiles and integration on a base platform have been completed... Patria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2017, the service of modification and adaptation of all self-service hoodies was completed, making it possible for the Croatian Army to have 12 operational and one driver training hub available. In June 2017, a prototype of the ship was launched and the ship's equipment was continued in the sea and preparation for the start of the entrance tests. In 2017, modernization equipment activities focused on the equipment of Croatian Air Force, helicopters... And a remont of Mi171Sh helicopter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The focus of the activities of construction and maintenance of infrastructure facilities has been carried out to support the implementation of the new operational schedule of the Croatian military in Sinj, Vukovar, Varazdin and Ploča. We continued equipment with advanced combat systems, intensified training and exercises in international and national arrangements. The Croatian Army is an extremely important segment in helping the population defend against disasters and thanks to the new deployment of troops, it is ready to help whenever necessary. It thus supported the population and civil institutions during 2017, by participating in fire-fighting, emergency air transport, life-threatening persons, in preventing and eliminating the consequences of natural disasters, in particular floods, and in search, rescue tasks on land, islands and sea. I would like to commend the engagement of the Croatian Army and congratulate all soldiers, soldiers, officers and officers for their honorable service. During the fire-fighting season, the Croatian military has proved to play a strategic role through the unity and synergy of all members of the Homeland Security System. In 2017, successfully defended from fires and floods, and due to the exceptional engagement in the defense of fires and floods, they were awarded the Croatian Pride 2017 award. The forces of the Croatian Air Force participated in a significant number of responses to requests to extinguish the open space fires compared to the previous period in 2017. The 2017 fire season is estimated to be one of the most demanding with a multiple-scale engagement of air, fire-fighting forces compared to 2016. During the 2017 fire-fighting season, the fire squadron responded to 607 requests for support and reached 17,606 flights, which is a multiple increase compared to 2016 when the flight was completed in 6364. During 2017, the Croatian military was engaged twice in supporting civil institutions and the population in carrying out flood defence activities. The first engagement of anti-float dedicated organized forces was in the area of Zadar and the surrounding area in September 2017 to help defend against floods due to severe weather. The forces are also engaged in the cleaning of the road in Bibinjje, the water pumping task in the aid in Zadar and Sukosan, and with an amphibious transport to the transport of persons, the extraction of motor vehicles, the setting up of a walking bridge in Nin which is then given to the use of the city of Nin. The second time, anti-float dedicated organized forces were engaged in the 17th Ogulin. - 21st of September. On fire protection tasks outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of a request for humanitarian assistance in fire-fighting, the Croatian military participated in the territory of the state of Israel, Montenegro, BiH and the Italian Republic. In 2017, the Croatian Army was involved in 40 exercises, 9 in the Republic of Croatia and 31 in the abroad where about 4000 members participated. The exercises in the Republic of Croatia included members of the Armed Forces of other countries of around 6,000 participants. Achievement in the implementation of the training of the Croatian Armed Forces training in 2017 are the implementation of... training and joint training exercises to assist civilian institutions, lessons learned in training, training from operations are embedded in training programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In line with the government's guidelines, I have been insisting since the start of the mandate on strengthening the integrity, accountability, transparency in all businesses, especially in public procurement. While in earlier procurement procedures marked with a degree of secrecy, more than 50% compared to the overall procurement plan, in the 2017 procurement plan, no public procurement procedure was classified by the degree of secrecy and that was for the first time in the Ministry of Defence in history. These data are presented to members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, the National Council for the Monitoring of the Implementation of the Strategy and the Control of Corruption of this High House, at the presentation of the Ministry of Defence procurement plan for 2017. The presentation was held with media representatives and the Ministry of Defence this way contributed to the transparent, open presentation of the 2017 procurement plan. In accordance with the purchase plan for 2017 and the planned financial resources, 1243 procurement procedures were implemented and 1588 contracts were concluded, decisions by the technical holder and the order. As one of the main objectives of the strategy and national security of the Republic of Croatia, strategic communication is listed. The aim of the communication strategy is to exchange information with the widest public in order to get and understand the citizens' opinion on the process of implementing the national security strategy and other acts governing the area of defence. The focus in the field of public relations is on timely and transparent information to the public on the work of the Ministry of Defence and on action in the implementation of the mission, the tasks of the Croatian Army. All important events of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army, as well as the involvement of our members in the exercises and participation in operations, missions, have been closely monitored while the promotion of a military call has been organised through various activities. In 2017, on social networks, there is an exceptional public interest in the content to be published. In 2017 it was marked by the return to the values of the Homeland War, so the celebration of Statehood and the promotion of military schools is being held in Vukovar, we have returned a large shift of guard to St. Mark's Square in Zagreb, and the hall in the Ministry of Defence and the main headquarters were appointed by the most responsible participants of the Homeland War and the winning brigades of the Croatian Army and by General Bobetko, Minister Šušek, General Cervenk, Stipetić, General Blaga Zadar by the Guard brigades. We want the Croatian army to be devoured by symbols, patriots, the Homeland War is the foundation of a modern Croatian state, and Croatian defenders are the cornerstone. You have seen that we have opened an army to the people, you have seen that the people once again I say they love their army and what is very important if you have also noticed that now the official name of the Armed Forces is the Republic of Croatia, and the short name we often use is now the Croatian Army. The Croatian army is closer to the people, as well as to all members and members of the Croatian Army. Overall, in 2017, it is a turning point towards improving the state of defence. I thank indeed once again all members of the winning Croatian Army for their engagement and one team effort, I think it is possible to do so, with increased inflows of budgetary resources through more intensive management efforts, to ensure the development of capabilities that the Croatian military will be able to face with possible security threats, challenges and to you as the highest legislative body to carry out civilian supervision of the armed forces, I submit this Annual Defence Report and ask for support in the debate and adoption of it. And we think that we have really worked really hard to do all these basic tasks and, as you have seen, we have helped the people in trouble, we will continue to do this and I think that the Croatian Army is stronger, that it is developing in the right way and that we are always that lasting guarantee of security, stability in these areas and that we are always ready and able to carry out all those tasks that are set before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81981	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, Mr. Damir Krstičević. We have several replicas, a respected colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Defence. I think we should congratulate on this clear and transparent report, on the one hand, but also on restoring the dignity of the Croatian military and the Croatian soldier and all that has been done in the past year. But I'd have two questions. In your presentation you spoke about cybernetic and information threats, from other sources we know that most NATO members have units to conduct information operations. How is it with the formation of these specialized units in the Croatian Army? And the other related to this transformation of the HVU into a university institution, when we can expect a change in the formation of the armed forces so that this could be about the possibility, on the one hand, and on the other hand a law that would allow it to become a public institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81983	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. The reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81984	And this question of yours about changing the structure of the HVU is now working on it, and I think it's going to be ready now and it's being reconstructed and it's being a university as a highly scientific institution and it's connected to the university, and it's now these processes. As far as these abilities are concerned, the fifth dimension of warfare, these intelligence capabilities, information operations, everything that matters right now we're doing very intensively so that we have some of these abilities right now. But I think we need upgrades and those abilities that we're going to develop, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81985	I thank you for your response to the Honored Minister. Next replica, respected colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81986	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Minister Krsticevic. Now former US official Mr. Rex W. Tillerson, implementing Mr. Trump's policy, has announced that he will be asked by all NATO members to raise the defence budget to at least 2% of GDP by 2024. So far, several countries have managed to achieve this goal, so I ask you, will you go with the budget increase that's almost double because we are now at 1.2 or will you resist as German Minister Sigma Gabriel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81987	I thank my colleague, Sincic. Minister Krsticevic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81988	Your Honor, Mr. Sincic. So you know that in the last six years, Croatia's military has been seized by a billion and 200 million kunas. Not a single resort in Croatia has lost as much as the military has lost. You know that the military is a function of peace, security, we know how we were in the 1990s, so I think we need to strengthen these abilities and we need to have a good army and I think the Croatian Army is a good, excellent army and that the Croatian people are proud of it. And clearly we must systematically increase these abilities and do so, but clearly we must also take care of all other segments of Croatian society and education, both health and agriculture and social welfare, so you have seen in all our decisions to make sure that we are responsible and affordable. So here's a systematic step by step as much as we can and I think that's the way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81989	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81990	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government and the Minister of Defence. I have to say that about a year and a half ago when you exposed your program to the Department of Defense I was skeptical that everything you listed might have happened in one period of four years. But now I see that this de facto happened in a year and a half and it's good that you said that this year's report actually serves all of the citizens of the Republic with one full introduction that you had in your explanation for almost 20 minutes. I am particularly pleased to say that the military's thinking in the Republic of Croatia, also all related to the operational use of a combat armored vehicle as a helihoptera... What you were saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what I'm particularly pleased about, and it seems to me that 2006 didn't happen, which is one of the strategies of national homeland security that we often talked about here in the Croatian Parliament and on this
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81991	.../Intruder Miljan Brkic: I thank my esteemed colleague Babic. Minister Krsticevic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81992	So I think we're prepared, I have a good team and you've seen, we've brought the National Security Strategy, we've passed the National Security System Act, we've brought the army back to Sinj, we've brought the army back to Vukovar. This year we return the army to Ploče, return the army to Varazdin, connect those abilities. We made a decision for a remont helihoptera, a decision that was awaited. We've made a decision regarding the weaponry of the Patri vehicle. And most important of all, we take care of our people. People are the most valuable thing the defense system has, and you know that we have returned new amendments, additions to the law to the people and to the terrain and to the watch and to the watch.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81993	I thank you for your response to Minister Krstičević. Next replica, respected colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81994	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the Honorable Minister. You were talking about equating the Croatian Army's diet and public procurement. The new Public Procurement Act allowed the Croatian Army, the police, schools to use so-called Amendment on short food supply chains. So not only the cheapest imported suspicious food from Brazil, I urge you to start with your authority to use this mechanism in both the Croatian military and future public procurement, e.g. A 48-hour delivery. That the Croatian soldier eats healthy, quality Croatian food, and Croatian cattlemen have a safe placement of their goods. As in Afghanistan, a Croatian soldier proudly carries a Croatian rifle. That's how it's done everywhere in the world, food is very important, just like a rifle. That's what we're going to encourage. Ordnanceal sales, preserve jobs and the remaining of young people in their hinterland.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81995	I thank my colleague Križanić. Minister Krstičević's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81996	Well, you've seen, we're taking care of the Croatian defence industry. The Croatian soldier is fully and fully equipped and armed with Croatian equipment and weapons, as far as nutrition is concerned, the key thing this government has done, we have leveled the diet, there is no difference, officer, officer, soldier, soldier have the same diet. It's the key, they've got a meal. Clearly, it is up to us now to always work on the quality of the meal, as far as the whole diet is concerned, that responsibility is on the Plekler company. Clearly if we work with the president of the administration to right through the laws to ensure that these products are also from Croatia, because there is no reason. I think it could be anything from Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81997	I thank you for your response to the Honored Minister. The next replica, dear colleague of Ljubica Maksimchuk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81998	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor. I must begin by commending this report of yours and, of course, thank you for putting enough effort to improve the conditions of life and work of the Croatian soldiers. In your report, you said there were just over 11% of women in the Armed Forces. Since 2017 has been declared a year of soldiers, officers and officers, I am particularly interested because it has been particularly emphasising and taking care of soldiers, or officers and officers in the Croatian Army, in order to improve the figure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u81999	I thank my colleague Maximchuk. Minister Krstičević's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82000	Well, we're taking care of our colleagues, and I think that's the value of the Croatian Army. As you can see, the percentage is large and I can tell you, last year we had for the first time, three times on voluntary service and the highest percentage, the biggest increase in women. So women like to come to the Croatian Army, and we try to have equal working conditions, to advance and believe me they work very professionally, very responsiblely all their jobs and I am very proud of it as Minister and I really congratulate them on all this, on the value they give to the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82001	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82002	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, Mr Krsticevic, Vice President. Well, you've actually made one turn all over the story when we're talking about the Croatian Army. So far, the direction so far has been to reduce the number of soldiers, eliminate the military in many cities, you've started with the reverse story, revitalize these military and increase the number of soldiers. We can get along or we can't. However, we can see that certain successes are being achieved. What I'm interested in is how realistic are these plans? Because the military is also seen as other segments of society as a cost which does not necessarily have to be, because this increase in the share of 2% of GDP aimed at Armed Forces can be a generator for the development of GDP again. How realistic are these plans of yours, what did you call it the new operational schedule of soldiers given the financial capacity? Because many soldiers complain that the conditions are still pretty bad in some barracks, for example. Military in Nasice or some other military.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82003	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. Minister Krstičević's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82004	So I think they're real and you've seen through all these projects that we've done, what we've said, and we've done very well, we've analyzed and we've done it. The army in Sinj, Vukovar, it's not just in the context of security. We saw and last year that was difficult, we could react, we could be timely, we could go to the fire on time or Vukovar, Vukovar that's 100, tomorrow 280 jobs, that means also in the function of security, on the other hand and help the local population. Or now the army, what will come to Varazdin. So it's both the generator and the consumption, the development generator, so I think it's all real and I say it's in function and security and it's in the function of helping the local population.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82005	I thank you for your response to Minister Krstičević. Is it possible that the committee reporter would like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82006	Thank you very much. Honorable ministers with their assistants, ladies and gentlemen representatives. We have a document that should provide many answers, not leave many questions, and this is exactly what the Report has done. This report does not give us much information that should be provided, so we do not consider it any progress compared to reports in recent years. Important information remains unknown, preventing serious access to defence analysts. We have the right to know more, you have the right to expect more, we have the right as representatives of the people and to think how our army makes better, more efficient and more ready. So in the part of human potential management, the report is incomplete because it doesn't talk about which types of personnel have left HV, the structure is not mentioned in the report, and we're realistically aware that this data here is not shown and we don't know why. We know that it is a critical lack of individual personnel with special expertise, especially in the form of pilot staff, aviation technicians and similar specific knowledge necessary for the orderly and secure functioning of a technique whose poorer unprofessional maintenance may have fatal consequences for our defence system. Here in the Report it is pointed out, it is not clear what led to such a cause. True, it's about how many people will be educated in the future, but here's the question of what will be done in the short term because the fact that the maintenance of the aircraft technique has come to a critical stage, and highly educated, the people of the profession leave the OS quickly, so that they should be bridged as soon as possible. In part of the management of material resources, it is said that in 2017 the NATO mission in Afghanistan was first referred to as "Croatian contingent which was fully equipped with Croatian weapons and equipment, which shows that the Ministry of Defence is an important partner of the Croatian defence industry, and a generator of development and promoter of top Croatian products." The same thing is mentioned on page 81 of this report. This is simply not true because members were not equipped with Croatian ammunition, and certain other parts are not exclusively Croatian. So, for example, even certain observation and communication equipment are not Croatian origins. On page 125 of the Reports, too, I quote it incorrectly: “Croatian soldier fully equipped with Croatian products. ” The ministry should take a closer look at the equipment of individual units, in particular some elite units, so they can determine that this finding is not entirely true. Croatian military equipment and weapons are top quality, but in the reports it should not be true that everything is a Croatian product on a Croatian soldier, but should continue to encourage the production of Croatian military equipment, primarily through the liberalisation of export policy regarding permits, and then through the development of the entrepreneurial climate, because Croatian military equipment manufacturers are most easily strengthened. Here we would also like to convey the dissatisfaction of some of our prominent businessmen that they are being denied permission to export arms and military equipment to some countries that are not even at war in which other EU countries export arms and military equipment without problems, and this is what the Morh is silent about, but here, we have the right to talk about. In part of the weapons and military equipment of the Croatian Land Army there is no mention of any relevant data. We have no data on how many OSRs are available to aircraft, tanks, armored vehicles of all kinds except BOV Patri, how many other types of military vehicles we have, what is the state of regularity. We don't have any data on the quantity and type of state of the artillery missile unit, the number in the form of anti-aircraft, anti-aircraft and other essential equipment. All this would not be a problem if this information were not supplied to all other countries, but to all parliamentary representatives and to the Croatian people, and information is not available. So, we have a situation that according to the Vienna document, Croatia delivers data on the types and quantity, the size of those funds, for example Serbia, Slovenia, BIH, Montenegro, but we have no parliamentary representatives, no people. Why are these data being given to other countries and not to us? So everyone has information about it, but the Croatian people don't. We're wondering why? We are so often remembered in Milanovic's government of the Patria truck affair when some of the types of Ukrainian MiGs are having an affair. Our newspapers show information about what and how it was obtained and how much it was whose commission it was. The Croatian public, after 23 years of the end of the war, does not know how many RS have any weapons and military equipment, while these data are supplied by the Ministry of Defence to Serbia and other countries. Of course Vucic has it, and Serbian parliamentary representatives do not have it, including Defence Minister Vulin. And that's why you can read it in Serbian, Bosnian-Herzegovic and other media. The strategic supply of UBS and the disposal of surpluses in this section is incomplete because it is not telling the bitter truth that the HV does not have enough walking ammunition for exercise. Large quantities of ammunition and UBS have been sold in the Middle East without adequate filling at the same time for the basic training of Croatian soldiers. To make things worse, it's not just about ammunition for the needs of infantry, it's about the chronic lack of grenades and missiles for artillery missile units, especially the larger range and special purposes. So we have a situation that the self-driving PZH 2000 hoods we paid with additional equipment of over 400 million kuna because it's super sophisticated hoodies, can't be used in many of its capabilities because we don't have any ammunition that would fire over 25 km. Turns out it'd be better if we bought... Catapults if we're going to leave them on this ammunition of such expensive hoodies, which are conditionally said to be foreign to production. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is said that 770 tonnes of excess conventional ammunition were destroyed, taken care of. This is really worrying that at the same time every year we have surpluses of ammunition at the same time as we do not have enough ammunition, for example, 5.56 in which our soldiers are to be trained according to NATO standards. The supply of material resources in the report states that the weight is placed on the equipment of components and sets of all disguised uniforms. It is time for all Croatian soldiers to be on certain exercises not to be 10 soldiers in 7 different uniforms, and I believe that the soldier will be the center and there will be praise about the soldier himself and the investment in the soldier himself, but I expect answers on these questions that I have now asked as well as in the communication information system department. Reports are completely... They devote to the savings on the paper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's be serious. Should we put that report here, how much was saved on paper? We believe that it would be more serious to analyse the number and at least the state of radio communication equipment, especially taking into account the larger quantities of equipment purchased in the past times that have remained unused and has become obsolete for now in certain segments. Military sites and buildings. 23 years after the war, Croatia does not have a military museum except on paper while in other countries these museums represent national pride and the Croatian military has to be proud of and it is time for the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army to get a museum that will be representative because we have something to be proud of. Support for the OSCE and civil institutions, it is good that the Croatian military is helping civil society and being with the people, but we have to ask ourselves one thing, do our institutions fulfil their obligations under the Civil Protection System Act? What makes the military a card for everything? Why aren't those who get paid for civil protection and protection doing their job? Why is it that instead of the dedicated organized forces in the Croatian Army, such forces are not better organized within... Civil institutions? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why use the army, it becomes a trend, and it needs to be considered professionally without irrational plans and actions. For the purposes of using OS in... protection in 2018 spent 80 million kunas, I said, turning the army into a card for everyone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's good, and it's noble to use the army for this, but military service knows what must be. In addition to this and the basic disasters and everything that confronts the Croatian people, there must be other things. The report also contains data on medical flights of medium transport helicopters but the report does not contain data on how much Croatian Air Force spent money on such flights and whether it would be more cost-effective for such things to obtain smaller helicopters that cost less, and are better equipped with medical equipment. The fact that our helicopters, We 18 and Mi 17 are not arranged or planned for exactly civilian missions, that such missions are very expensive, so it is necessary to see if smaller helicopters of medical purposes can achieve large savings that would pay for the purchase of such helicopters. Small helicopters, obtained from a U.S. donation, Kiowa Warrior, are neither reorganized for medical purposes. If we just take that Mi 18 and Mi17 spends about 600 liters of fuel per hour and the remont costs them about 15 to 20 million kuna helicopters, I think it would be rational to ask and to subdue the data and cost and to think about how to solve it. On page 70, an increase in the budget in expenditure was announced to be 10% for defence, among other things, due to emergency medical transport, and our inquiry is also held justified. The management of financial resources, the MORH continues to have low investment in research and development, making research costs of developing 0.07% of total expenditures achieved. Inventivity in the OS comes down to individual attempts by businessmen who are forced to search for foreign partners and the lack of ideas of these technologies and defence processes is nothing more than the result of 20 years of neglecting domestic abilities. As for training and training, as already stated, the Croatian Army has a chronic lack of basic means of combat, mostly for training. There are no such problems in this section that... A report of intent or not I know why it was silenced and the fact that the public was not familiar with the problems in the OS. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such an approach should be changed, it should be corrected, if not for the respect of the people, then at least to recognize this problem and to go to solve the problem, that the Croatian army should be what it should be, the most equipped army. Transport support in 2017 due to the expiry of the resources, procedures for the write-off of 128 motor vehicles and connected vehicles have been launched. On this basis, the process of disposal shall be carried out through contractors of secondary metal raw materials. This kind of procedure is characteristic of countries that mismanage resources. Developed countries place or sell or donate old vehicles for various purposes, humanitarian, there are people involved in civil society where these vehicles are needed and not... and sell in raw materials and we know that many associations and collectors and other individuals yearn for such vehicles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also some money would be coming from the Department of Defense. About extraordinary events and not much, just 390 extraordinary events. We see that only soldiers are to blame that in the command system no one has a strict procedure, so it's mostly all on soldiers. Public procurement, worrying information is that before the State Commission for the Control of Procedure and Obtainment in... is 12 complaints in the procurement process in which the public orderer is the Ministry of Defence, of which 8 was adopted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Certain progress has been made, and we need to acknowledge this and to remove the veil of secrecy from many public procurements in 2017. All that is well said is what was done for Croatian soldiers and what was done for the deployment. However, I would ask that what I just said on behalf of the MOST Club be answered and understood as an incentive for better Armed Forces, for more effective Armed Forces. And that's why I'd say it one more time. This report gives many, not all information as well as the past years, and we as people's representatives, we have a lot more to know, think about how to make the army better, more efficient and more ready. And that's our interest in how you do. And don't take this as a criticism, take this as our proposals and what we're... in this report for better and more effective Armed Forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82007	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82008	Vice President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Annual Defence Report for 2017, which will certainly be recorded as a milestone for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. After the defence ministry's budget was reduced for years, the rights cuts and standards of members of the Armed Forces, cutting items for equipment and training. Last year, there has been an upheaval, and about 400 million kuna increases the defence budget. The year 2017 was declared a year of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers. A lot of energy and resources are being invested to improve the living and working conditions of members of the Croatian Army because people are exactly our greatest value and strength. Investment in improving the quality of living and working conditions is the safest investment in building our Armed Forces. With the new deployment of Croatian military troops in Vukovar, Varazdin, Sinj, and Ploče, the concept of a traveling army is abandoned, thus allowing a large number of its members to move closer to the place of work for a better and better quality family life. The new schedule also uses the local community because the army is at hand in case of elemental disasters and disasters. During 2017, members of the Croatian Army were engaged in numerous fires from Istria to Dalmatia, as well as in the rescue and removal of the effects of floods that have been plagued by Zadar, Nin and Ogulin, as they have provided significant assistance to the disabled, together with firefighters and in cooperation with the local community. That is exactly what the value and humanity of the victorious Croatian army is read. The above-mentioned engagement is recognised and I am pleased to have been awarded the award "Croatian pride for 2017". It is also to highlight and praise our Armed Forces in peacekeeping missions around the world. Namely, the Croatian Army participates in 13 missions or operations under the auspices of the NATO Alliance, the EU, and the UN with a total of 737 members and members. I believe that in addition to contributing to the maintenance of peace in these crisis areas, the promoters of our homeland are also. Therefore, I am not surprised at the statement, or the recognition of the US Defence Minister, to quote: “Croatia is a small country but is fighting significantly above its category. ” When we talk about the budget, that is to say, obtaining the Ministry of Defence as a prominent but also commending openness or transparency because no procurement bears a mark of secrecy. The fact is that last year in Mirovina, we sent a mission to Afghanistan to send a contingent of our soldiers who were fully equipped with Croatian equipment. It is certainly the recognition of the Croatian defence industry but also the best way to promote the industry and equipment. When we talk about promotion, the ability to defend our homeland but also the ally has also made a visible step. It continued with equipment with advanced combat systems, intensified training and exercises in international and national arrangements, launched a series of activities aimed at revitalising the reserve component and so on. The most important capital projects were the introduction into the operational use of combat armored vehicles, pedestrians, self-driving hoods, Kiowa helicopters, and the equipment of infantry with significant quantities of modern domestic weapons. It is particularly important to point out that after many years of postponement of the decision to retain the ability to control and protect the airspace of the Republic of Croatia, a decision has been taken to obtain a multi-purpose combat aircraft of the 4th generation, which received unanimous support from the Assembly Defence Committee. In 2017 it will also be marked by the return to the fundamental values of the Homeland War. Thus, the celebration of Statehood Day and the promotion of military schools is being held again in Vukovar, a large shift of guards has been returned to St. Mark's Square in Zagreb, and halls in the Ministry of Defence and the main headquarters of the armed forces have been appointed by the most responsible participants of the Homeland War and the winning brigades of the Croatian Army. Special care is devoted to military education, so a total of 872 members and members have completed a further growing education for the officer/officer, or officer/officer. Since special care is devoted to education, I am not surprised to continue with the transformation of the Croatian Military University, Dr. Franjo Tuđman in a higher education and scientific research institution with integration, in a university community and networking in an international high-level scientific space. It should also be pointed out that a national security strategy has also been adopted after 15 years, and in order to better coordinate and prepare for crisis situations, the Homeland Security System Law. I'm also taking the opportunity to publicly congratulate the minister on the great recognition that he's been enrolled in the war school of the famous United States Land Army. Finally, I can proudly announce that the HDZ Club will accept the defence report for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82009	I thank my esteemed colleague, Uncle, for this debate. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82010	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the Secretary of State, the Assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The introduction club of the HNS will support the annual defence report for 2017. Just a few notes from the introductions, that is, on this report. So I don't think we should talk much about both our environment and our obligations taken from NATO membership and other associations. I think the time in which we live is extremely complex and that security is one of the first topics of all debates anywhere political, but anywhere in general in all institutions, both in Europe and in the world. From this point of view, this report should also be observed and, in general, further work, both by the Ministry of Defence and by other intelligence agencies and other agencies, or institutions. What I can say here or a little show some information about staff reception, 785 new soldiers and sailors were received in 2017, so a total of about 17,000 total numbers and together with the administrative staff of the ministry itself, so around 14754, I think it's listed in the report, the active military personnel. As for the interest in staff reception, i.e. to volunteer military service, it was at the level of around 1100 and something last year, it was reported around 1500, 1600, so we see some increase, but what is good and encouraging to increase compensation for those who successfully end up at 2000 kn, I believe it was 1200 or so. Surely there is, what we have taken over from our obligations, there is no mandatory service of the probationary period, but certainly through the story which we also raised in 2017 at about 20, 21 000 people, and this year, when we have brought new amendments and the Law of Defence that they will be able to respond to all the demands that will be made. First of all, some of these demands, and certainly what, where we can most visiblely see, where the military is actually the most needed, so we all don't care about security at all until we need it, and the other day we have had various reports here and about the work in the interior, so the new safety laws, whether it was me thinking about traffic, air traffic, that security is something that everyone understands easily until it's threatened them and I think it was good and it was good, especially when we talk about working within civil institutions, or helping civil institutions. First of all, I think it was recorded last year according to a report of four fires the military has assisted, or an army on land. And in particular, over 17,000 flights were made related to fire-extinguishing compared to 2016 when it was 6,300. So I think that all those who unfortunately experienced that elemental accident to know what the role of the army is, not only in fires, floods, especially, if we remember those floods a few years ago from Gunja and those years ago, which means when the army comes to the field, which means organization, which means when everyone knows their place and then we can easily put all the other civilian institutions that help, which are at a disposition when we have one good structure and a good skeleton and I think that's one good way that we are now able to say unfortunately and practice and find one good synergy and within the system of homeland security with all the other stakeholders. What you would also point out here for a short while, is about the objects to which the masters are. I believe it was in a report somewhere around 222 objects that are currently in charge of the Ministry of Defense. I see that some have been returned last year, we're talking about 4 in smaller cities where the military is returning and it's commendable in terms of economic activity that more than 50 million kunas have been invested in these facilities, that they're employees of people, that I don't have to say what in a Pozega means the complex itself military and for training and their economy. So there were Vukovar and Varazdin and the rest of the cities. However, I am interested, given NATO standards that there should be no army in major cities. I'd like to appeal once again to the former home of JNA on Zvonimir Street, the secretary of state knows what it is, so I see that it's a White Butcher or whatever it was called before in Osijek, which is one great potential, which can be used for both the economy and for various other purposes, maybe even the city administration should move. It's a theme that's been going on forever for years, and it's been standing there at the disposition of the military and using it in some reduced volume. So we know that an army in larger cities, I don't know of 60, 70,000, can't even be a resident. So it would still appeal this way to find a solution that either with the Ministry of State Property that military when I asked them it wasn't in their portfolio, so it's directly one of those 222 objects to be given or replaced so that then the Ministry of State Property can make it available to the local self-government unit and put it into some function, let's say the IT sector anything because it's really a multi-functional object that I believe it can be. So I commend these efforts not to strategically, not functional property to be used by both the ministry and the market itself. Of course, those who have returned to put themselves in the focus of the very action of the military forces because we know what is good when in certain areas we already have active persons, we do not have to transport them and in order to make any connection, natural disasters or whatever threatens that immediately in the field a number of people are fast available and it is certainly a good policy and we welcome it. But we also want to make the most of these non-strategic, especially in military terms, objects. Here's a thank you and I hope you'll keep that note in mind. Once again, the HNS Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82011	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stephen Churay, for this debate. An individual discussion by a respected colleague, Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82012	Thank you very much. Here I was, on behalf of the club, saying once again that Croatia and the Croatian soldier are essentially the biggest brand, one of the biggest brands we have for sure as well as in the winning Homeland War, and Croatian armed forces deserve a lot of things that the tribals would be clearer and more transparent. And I expect the ministry and what I said on behalf of the club, and even now what I said is a simple message that people have the right to know more, we as advocates have the right to expect more, we have as representatives of the people and we need to think that our army is more efficient, better and more ready in the circumstances in which it is now. Of course, human potentials are the most important around human potentials should be spoken of, but the fact is also that this report does not indicate how much we lack personnel and, as I said especially those with expertise pilot staff, I said, aircraft, technical staff. And it's not pointed out in the report, which is why such a lack of staff is not mentioned and missing in this report by saying about future education which is good, but that's all in the long run. And the fact that it's hard to make up for a high-speed shot leaving the army. So at this point, we need to see the exact reasons why this most professional vessel in the armed forces is coming out of the system. Arming and equipment in a NATO mission that is said to be a fully Croatian product simply does not correspond to the truth. Croatian products are good military, but they are not entirely Croatian products. I'm just on behalf of the club and listed what's not a Croatian product. It should encourage the production of Croatian military equipment especially through a free export policy because it is a stopper, one generator of development and licenses today's entrepreneurs do not have export permits that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is denying. We must not be silent about how we advocates and not at the Ministry of Defence, because this practice must cease to develop our economy in this matter, as we have said about the export of our weapons and military equipment. Information on the number and type of aircraft, tanks and their regularity shall be kept secret from parliamentary representatives and Croatian peoples not only now but in all reports, and delivered to other countries. The Croatian public, as we said 23 years after the war, does not know which weapons and military equipment they have. That is what we are delivering to Serbia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia under the international agreement, according to... contract with international contracts delivers to Serbia. That's what Vulin has on the table, there's Vucic, and of course Vučić will give it to Seselj, and we can actually read from the Serbian media about the state of our weapons equipment and we can read it from the Bosnian-Herzegovian, Montenegrin because of that obligation we need to talk about it occasionally these data come out as was an affair of Ukrainian MiGs where they went on a combat flight, it's for the former governments, I'm speaking now in general when the planes went on the proper flight of MIG fighter planes and returned to parts so that they were in the carioli. The Patria affair, the Trucks affair, and then the data comes out, which, of course, is not good. The only information we have from non-combat vehicles or non-combat vehicles. However, I would like to know how many Audi 6 vehicles are there in the use of the Navy armed forces and how old such vehicles are compared to the age of 26 of all non-war vehicles. But I'm not in the mood for Moreh to bring it out so transparently right now. Strategic stockpiles of war funds and surplus disposal, the Croatian Army does not have enough pedestrian ammunition for exercise, and on the other hand large quantities of ammunition are sold in the Middle East. For what? I don't know the reasons, but it doesn't fill the military training reserves. It's gunned down in the same report, and it's missing at the same time. Well, that might explain a little bit why it's happening. Material... by material means, also here we see shifts, I mean Croatian soldiers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The minister also mentioned the OS Act that we supported, about defence, about the national security strategy, about these things. That's a good step, and we need to talk about it positively. However, none of these things that we all need to solve together, of course in accordance with the budget, of course in line with the objectives of development and the tasks of the OSCE, that we should think this way. Communication-information systems are not realised by the state and number of communication equipment, but by saving paper. I think we need it here, there are nonessential things, and even we have the duplication, we have the same texts. In the first part, the defence policy of resource management is the same parts of the text as in the second part of the OS. So the texts are repeated. Military sites, here's the mention of the museum. I just got off the phone with him, and he's already working on it. I think it is time after 23 years of the Homeland War that the Croatian soldier, the Croatian winning army has a museum, we have something to boast about. Here from Sinj from the city council was launched an initiative to the Sinj airport, which is a sports airport, which served in the beginning of the Homeland War where they were converted to combat by agricultural aircraft, where they were sports-recreationists. Many of our pilots who were paratroopers in this area have given their lives in Sinj, so this space can also be used as very important as regards air defense. It is good for a Croatian soldier to be close to the people in civil society and jump into critical moments. However, 70 million kunas were spent by the ministry in fire protection. However, this raises the question of what is going on with the other civil protection sector and those who are obliged to worry about what is happening. I know it's in the national strategy that we have it listed, that this is where the reserves actually move, these things. But the fact that civil society is very important, this civilian part is very important because the military can't be the Katica for all. So we have an exact way to organize and ask the question of what has led to it. I would only say once again that for medical purposes as well, I mentioned our flights and combat helicopters that should question whether it's the cheapest model because it's expensive fuel, large amounts of benefits, it's expensive, we know it's a set of remont, 15-20 million kunas. I think we should think about it, and these smaller planes that we got from NATO to the United States that simply it can't be overly designed for those purposes, so we should think about the amount we pay in the budget, whether it can be solved in another way and be less cost-efficient. We see here the management of financial resources. That's what I mentioned. We use 0.07, or 0.1% of the funds to simply do this by our entrepreneurs looking for partners in other countries, but it's neglecting 20 years, not just now, I've been saying in general over the last 20 years neglecting our domestic intelligence and ability. Once again, as far as exercise goes, there's a shortage of ammunition. Croatia should be trained to be the most elite and best soldier it deserves. And finally, the public procurement has a shift. We see that some progress has been made by removing the veil of secrecy in many public procurements in 2017. I said that no matter what we have 12 complaints in the process, but that is how I expect this must debate, mainly on behalf of the club in the answers, will be well understood and it will be an incentive for these issues to be difficult to open, to bring the OS to the highest level in accordance with the financial resources allocated from the budget. [[Thank you very much. Time's up, Mr. Bull.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82013	Thank you, too. There were no replicas. The next speaker individual, right? It's Mr. Ante Babic. You have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82014	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, assistant minister. In fact, the minister said very well in his presentation that this year's Report actually serves the entire public so that he could get acquainted with the work and work of the Ministry of Defence in 2017 and I think that when you look at these 100, 150 pages, you actually get one cut of the work of the MORH, I would say one hard work, but effective work and it was actually seen in 2017 on several dozens of examples. I must really say, and I will repeat once again that, through the proposal itself, the programme of the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Defense, I did not believe that it could be fulfilled in any four-year period, because knowing that the previous government and defence ministers were also trying to solve certain things, and it was waiting 10 and 12 years especially for the full adoption of the defence strategy, i.e. national and Homeland Security, which is now being done. The fact is, if you look at this annual report, you actually get into the eyes of a certain thing. Therefore, on the one hand, it can be divided into that technical part that is related to both the armored combat vehicle and the soldiers, the officers and the officers themselves, that is, the resolution of their status, the acquisition of Kiowa Warriors helicopters that are safe in the eyes of the public as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are also entering certain security. Often in the Croatian Parliament you can actually hear certain things about the MRLs, whether it is necessary, is not if we already have NATO and should actually say that the security of citizens, borders and states depends heavily on the organisation of the Ministry of Defence. As a result, the decision to make, i.e. the purchase of multi-purpose combat aircraft, when adopting the 2018 budget, and when removing certain items, or increasing others, has often been known to take off funds related to the purchase of multi-purpose combat aircraft, and in fact to point out that these funds can be used for something else. I am of the opinion that this is a good decision, a smart decision long awaited and I think about what the defence minister was saying today, and I am aware of the threat of both the instability in Southeast Europe and the situation itself in Ukraine, cybercrime, and even if you want refugees and refugee crises, all that really surrounds the Republic of Croatia, or what it is actually saying about security threats and challenges in the environment of the Republic of Croatia, it is good that citizens have insight into what the Ministry of Defence actually did in 2017. I am particularly pleased that 2017 was declared a year of soldiers, officers and officers, I am glad that their material status and other status has improved in the Croatian Army, and this is actually an additional motivation for the Croatian soldier that, in fact, through the Ministry of Defence can meet those requirements that he may have applied for and wants to serve his country. In particular, it should be pointed out, perhaps the minister touched only briefly, in 2017 there was a year of fire and flood and the presence of the army in these areas further infused the citizens with one security which should continue to be done. The report also discusses the permanent missions of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, both through NATO and the United Nations, and this is a new challenge, a new contribution from the Croatian soldiers, and I think that this is also very important for the experience of Croatian Armed Forces and that it should continue to persist in such missions. What is important through this year's report for 2017 is the adoption of the National Strategy of the Homeland War. I know that before in the Croatian Parliament when we passed certain laws regarding protection and rescue and similar laws, we actually talked about when certain threats occurred, how and how to solve it. I think it is now in one of the most systematic ways that it is actually settled, that at any moment it is known when and which institutions should act in any kind of threat, whether it is about fires, whether it is about floods or any other threats related to safety, threats, challenges for the Republic of Croatia. Of course, I commend this report, I am glad that what happened now that we can talk about it in the middle of 2018 because it is fresh data and I believe that in 2018, the Ministry of Defence has a series of obligations, tasks which, not only will it do, but in fact empower the Ministry of Defence, and I say I am particularly happy to get a multi-purpose fighter plane and I am waiting for the moment when it will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82015	Thank you, too. Before I give Mrs Jelkovac the opportunity to replicate you, students and students of the Faculty of Political Sciences in Zagreb are with us today. Let's give them a round of applause, please. . As usual, the gallery is numerous than the Assembly. [[Applause.]] The replica of Mrs. Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82016	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, of course I agree with you in this section where you spoke of weapons, especially about the acquisition of aircraft. However, I would also point out that I am very proud that our Croatian army is also equipped with a brief, brief assault rifle that we produce in Karlovac, and I can say that it has become a brand in the world and I think it is very important, in fact, that our army is the best promoter of our military weapons, military equipment and that the Croatian soldier is equipped with the products produced by us and I think it is very important for our country and that in this segment we can do even more, that we should continue to encourage it. I also think it is very important, all the measures that have actually been taken in the last year to improve the material technical conditions of the military, which I think is very important in the motivational work of the Croatian soldier and so that he could be really in each Looked away. [[Intruder Furio Radin: time Mrs Jelkovac.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82017	Thank you. Okay, no answer. And now we have... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You have the answer. And I realized you didn't, to say so. Because you didn't lift the bat, you did, did you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82018	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here are the young people from college who can actually see for themselves the dynamics of these discussions. Actually, my colleague Jelkovac, yes, I agree, I may not have mentioned it, but I do know that the minister has spoken on several occasions, especially in sending our Armed Forces to Afghanistan, that they were not happy to actually carry other people's weapons and equipment, and what the Ministry of Defense actually noticed very well, they insisted and actually succeeded, and thus they helped our employers, our industry, that they could actually export their weapons through such marketing, I would say around the world. Perhaps another hint that I have put, and I did not mention, which is very important that Croatian armed forces have deployed throughout Croatia, here we have heard that they will be in Varazdin, now in Ploča in Vukovar, Sinj, which I particularly welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82019	Thank you, too. And now I'm giving Mr. Secretary of State Tomislav Ivić the opportunity to have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82020	I thank all the clubs and individuals for the representatives and MPs who participated in the debate. All our efforts in 2018 will be aimed at further improving the defence system, given primarily the location, position and conditions and life and work of the Croatian soldier. I believe we will be just as successful as in 2017, and I hope you will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82021	Thank you both for your time. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met, I guess tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82022	The Annual Defence Report for 2017 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: An annual defence report for 2017 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 78 for and 1 abstentions, have reached the conclusion that it has been proposed by the Parliamentary Labour Authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82023	We now move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. number 311. The SDP representative club shall be proposed on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. The government has delivered its opinion. Would Mr. Peja Grbin, on behalf of the promoter, like to give an additional explanation? If he wants to, he has that possibility. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. This is about an extremely short bill, but just because the bill is extremely short doesn't mean it doesn't matter. It is extremely short, but at the same time very simple, and it says the following, instead of counting so far when the debt is paid first, and then interest only at the end of the day if something remains the principal, we suggest that this order be changed in a way that the principal is always returned parallel to the costs and interest, i.e. that at least 50% of the debt is paid to the principal, and the rest as it is so far, first at the cost of the interest and ultimately if any of that amount remains on the principal. What are we proposing this for? Because mathematical analyses have shown that frequent situations in which the amount of debt payable or the amount of monthly war to be charged in respect of the provisions of the executive law on the restriction of enforcement are such that the debtor will not only return the principal but will never begin to repay it. In our bill of law, we gave a hypothetical example of a situation where someone owes two hundred thousand kunas and explained how it is possible that this person will pay his entire life's debt without ever being returned to the principal. This is possible in other situations, for example, in the case of a completely normal 50 thousand-euro residential loan where the debt is paid by the debtor 6 or 7,000 kuna, the debtor will never return the principal to the executive procedure in view of the level of the tight interest, his entire life will return interest or go into a personal bankruptcy. This bill does not damage believers, no. This bill ensures not only that the debt to the believers is settled but that they get paid and interest, but not as high as so far. Now let me read what our government has said to all of this, and I quote: “By accepting the proposed solution to make peace with the principal first, and then the cost and interest of the debtor who is too late to pay the principal, and because of this, his interest is strained by paying part of the outstanding amount, he would reduce the principal by reducing his right to tighten interest. ” Yes, gentlemen, exactly, by paying the debt, we feel that the principal needs to be reduced. Does anyone in this assembly mind that when a debtor pays his debt, he reduces the base of the debt? And an unrespected colleague from the government, this proposal does not say that the principal is first fed, and then the costs and interest, no, the principal and the costs and interest are in parallel, it is a significant difference. Because it suggests that whoever wrote this opinion about the government didn't even bother to read the law until the end. However, the problem with this government explanation is one message sent to all debtors in the Republic of Croatia, and the message says, we don't care if you ever pay back the debt. It's important to us that the creditors charge interest. However, it is neither in the nature of the mandatory relationship nor in the nature of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is a social state, the Republic of Croatia is a country in which entrepreneurship freedoms are respected, of course the Republic of Croatia must take measures to repay the debt, but to send a message that the basic value of religious debt is that the believer has the right to tighten interest, and that is what the Government said is completely wrong. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this bill will not be dramatic and we have no illusion at all to claim that the debt situation will be dramatically improved but will be improved in part and we will allow any debtor to recover the debt sooner or later because now, I will repeat again, we have a situation in which the debt cannot be recovered. Two weeks ago, we proposed another measure that should have facilitated the position of debtors in Croatia. It was a measure that we wanted to ban from doing the full pay. You didn't accept that then. You considered the whole salary's performance to be something that is legitimate and something that should survive in the Croatian legal order. A few days ago when I speak, I think first of all of my colleagues from the ruling majority, you presented suggestions on how to resolve the positions blocked in the Republic of Croatia. It is commendable and necessary, but you haven't said a single proposal how to make the process of enforcement and collection of claims fairer and how to prevent the situation in which the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are blocked to this extent, to happen again. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a small measure, this is a small law but if we adopt this, we will make life easier for the vast majority of the Republic of Croatia and allow them to pay back the debts they have in a way that is far less difficult for them than that which is now in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82025	Thank you, too. Please, thank you, we have three replicas, actually you have three replicas, the first replica has Mr. Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82026	Thank you, Vice President. I'll try to be quick. Dear colleague Grbin, a few questions and concerns I have about this proposal. I've tried something like this before the debate itself. This is one of the questions that's being raised. Do we also have a situation in legal traffic, when someone is looking for the principal, interest, and let's say he's running an executive procedure, especially sue the interest that becomes the principal then, and if the interest starts again, is it still possible in this proposal? So if someone with this proposal didn't pay off interest at all, then someone can, by indirect procedure, sue interest that hasn't been paid. He's a tight one, for instance. Or not. So is it becoming, we know that a lot of companies are particularly suing the principal, especially interest so that we can get a tight interest on interest, whether it's even considered because here they don't even mention in the bill that it's about tight interest rates, but it's about interest in general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82027	Time, thank you, thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82028	Thank you. So two things we have that are very easy to chase. First and foremost, interest can only be sued as the main claim if the initial claim of the principal is settled, so in that case, when the debtor has paid the principal then he can seek interest as the main claim. At that point, if the court sentences a double interest, the initial interest determines and it becomes the principal of this particular judgment and then the interest is on it. The second thing that we're talking about and you're mixing is the accounting order in Article 171. Mandatory relationship law. Therefore, in situations where the debt is settled outside the executive procedure, Article 171 above applies above all, which defines the order in which the payment is to be made, which is to say the following. If we have a contract, my colleague Shuker has called me annuity, if we have a contract component that is the payment plan, then the payment is made according to this payment plan because it is the will of the parties, it is one thing, however, if the debt comes in full then it is charged in the executive procedure and the principal is charged. Can't interest on interest. [[Mr. Grbin.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82029	You want to...? No, I won't give you a warning, I won't give you a warning, but you deserve it. [[Hauntback: Give me a warning.]] Mr. Milnic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82030	Thank you very much. So, fellow coat of arms, you said in your statement that nothing dramatic would change, so that's where you wouldn't agree. If any debtor who is now, as you have shown the situation, a whole series of debtors who are returning and will never be able to return to the principal because they will return all the time to the cost and interest of what the situation is now like because the cost of the interest comes back first, so if we accept this, and the debtors will be able to reduce the principal, then it will dramatically change for them. So I can't agree that nothing dramatic is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82031	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82032	Thank you. Col. Milenić, my expression that this will not change dramatically is aimed at the fact that this law itself will certainly not unblock those who are blocked, that by voting this law alone, the debts will not disappear, etc., which is often sought as a decision that the Parliament should make. But in that part that you said would change the position of the debtor in a way that allowed him to finally repay the debt, yes, there will be something important happening, and there you are right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82033	Thank you very much. Last line, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82034	Comrade Grbin, I also wanted to say something on the trail of what my colleague Milenic was talking about. So this is another law that the SDP is trying to help the rulings to help Croatian citizens, to provide them with a better and better quality of life but persistently all our proposals refuse, with the most common explanation being that they are ruling their laws. But here, taught by experience in the field of health even though it was an explanation for a whole series of laws, yet no law that would be better than ours we have not seen. What do you expect about this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82035	Mr. Grbin's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82036	Thank you. Dear counterpart Jovanovic, therefore, there are currently three government-oriented legislative proposals in public debates aimed at helping blocked people. I am particularly glad that this happened because it obviously needed the intervention of the SDP, and it was obvious that we as the SDP should have referred our proposals to the public, to start the government to finally start doing our job. However, when the government began to do its job, it only partially did so and instead of dealing with all the problems related to performance and enforcement, the government addressed only one small segment. It's for citizens who are very difficult blocked, but it's just one part of the whole problem that we have to start solving and we have to start getting into some sort of order. This law would be one step and one step in the right direction, if the other measures were to continue in that trail I think that over a year, two, three at most, they would have one system of performance that would be social, which would be inclusive and would also allow the believers to get what they are owed, but also the debtors to repay the debt without being bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82037	Time, this time you should give yourself a warning because you spoke 10 seconds more. And now we're moving on with the debates. Do the committees want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Mr. Branimir Bunjac in front of a representative of the Living Wall and the SNAGA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82038	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. My dear secretary. We heard the government doesn't have an opinion, she'll email it to us, so we'll read it later. So the executive law is without a doubt the worst law the Croatian Parliament passed in the 21st century. The law was written by the HDZ government, and without reservation was implemented by the SDP government with the participation of all satellites that agreed to be part of the two-headed non-majority that devastated Croatia. It is a law that sacrificed the existence and future of one-quarter of Croatian citizens on the altar of narrow clicks of interesting lobbies and their descendent politicians from the very top of the government. Try to imagine, in Germany, one quarter of the citizens suffer the effects of the blockades, it would be a number of 21 million people, try to imagine what would happen in that country, what kind of revolution would be asked for resignations and shifts would happen, and in Croatia, we only go down to the sufferings of a quarter of our citizens, we're looking for excuses, we're looking for excuses, we're saying what I can, I don't know anything about it, I have to ask someone outside of Croatia, etc. We have today in Croatia one caste of people who have made a fortune right on the Executive Law, first of all I mean lawyers, public notebooks and politicians often local which we can very easily check on tax cards because these are the people who report the biggest incomes while on the other hand we have citizens who are unable to pay directors, say electricity and water, we have citizens who are unable to buy food, and at the same time they can't borrow money because all their accounts are blocked. So we have people who for years and even more than ten years have been experiencing one life drama without any hope that their condition could change. And these people, and there's a lot of them suffering because of 77 hands in this House, let's say the same thing because one can threaten us with one or another, order, but according to the article of the Constitution, the 82th MP in the Parliament votes himself. And by raising your hands for such an executive law, I mean the ruling majority, you are the one who put the nail in the coffin of Croatian citizens. You are the ones who talk about some awareness of whether to deal with ideological issues or not, but you have no conscience when to save Croatia from poverty and poverty, and poverty is the greatest crime to which people are exposed in the modern era. Yes, quite you, there are no other persons you are not looking for outside this building, you who are looking at me who are making Plenkovic's majority. You are the one who threw the Croatian citizens on a beggar stick and don't let me start reading your names because you know very well who you are. We are free to say on the number of victims of the executive law that an executive genocide has been carried out in Croatia. According to the current law, about 10 million executions were carried out on which billions of different costs were charged. Only FINA charged 50 billion kunas to citizens through the execution. We have 330,000 blocked citizens whose number doesn't decrease, and at the same time their debt is growing exponentially from month to month, look at all the official statistics and this is the best evidence of your government's work, completed and blocked. When you cut that down then start talking about some kind of budget surplus and similar inventions, they grow. There's no surplus if the debts grow, which is what you're talking about. When you have a surplus, cut your debts. Debts blocked now amount to about 65 billion kuna, and it is amazing that their principal is less than one fifth of that amount. How is that possible? Well, it's possible because the charges are charged without the consent of the debtors often and without their knowledge, so there's nothing in the world to judge a man without him knowing anything about it. Watch this absurd, this paradox. EU citizens in Croatia can complain of a comprehensive solution before the public notary sent it, and Croatian citizens cannot. So let me know if there's any greater evidence of colonialism that we've been brought into. Is this the EU sworn by Parliament President Jandrokovic, these are the benefits that we have received by membership in the great organisation of the people. How do public notebooks work here? You know how? They're working at a time of Stalinism. One spray is made, one paper on top is just an empty line and you can type up any name and only after that you send and it is charged 1000 kuna, a piece of paper. So in Stalin's day, you had the same thing, she wrote a verdict, people's enemies a socially harmful element, and only above could a name be written, a last name, and you were all charged with the same indictment, so you defend yourself if you can. What's FINA doing? When he takes the poor man's money off the bill, he's charged 175 kuna each transaction, 175 kuna for a job running computer software. In one minute, two minutes of public notebook and FINA earning a worker's salary in the building in two days, in one minute. So who's crazy about it? Not only are public notebooks and politicians involved in both lawyers and FINA, but the state also robs citizens. Is the state charging VAT on all these costs and hiring earrings in FINA and the question of whether the agency could exist at all if there were no performance etc. Croatia boasts that the social state is that something like we are very concerned about our citizens, and we allow the whole pay to be seized. See Article 56 of the Constitution, each man has the right to profit by ensuring a decent life for himself and his family, and the entire salary is being paid. Be careful in Croatia if someone has received 200 kunas and that 200 kuna is preyed on. There is no social minimum under which money cannot be seized, which is a practice throughout Europe and every normal world. In Germany, it is impossible to repossess below 850 euros. If a man has children, he still adds to that amount a certain amount. In Italy, a man with a lower salary of 2500 euros only 10% of his salary can be seized, watch out for 2500 euros 10%. And we can take 100% even if a man works on a minimal. It is not possible to carry out real estate in EU countries unless it is a mortgage loan. I can't have veterinary stations and public service providers taking people's apartments and houses. Among other things, because the principle of proportionality is respected in the EU and in the normal countries of the world. Not because someone owes me a toothpick to get him a two-storey. It's just not parity, it's not equal value. If someone is going to take the house, at least it's 50 or 70,000 euros, and then we have this principle of proportionality respected. Nowhere in the world is it possible to take the man the means he needs to work, it is not possible to prey on man’s incentives, it is not possible to prey on man’s means of purpose. This is all possible for us, and therefore there is a strong doubt that some of the money from the performance ends in the hands of politicians, as public notebooks and lawyers are happy to hang out with them, as much as they do in the event of the execution they cooperate openly. And look at any local administration that these public notebooks go to these public companies, mayors, mayors, municipalities to give them to interest citizens. Do you think there's no interest in that? Yeah, no, especially with Mr. Lonchar, he's known as the best chief. How is it possible in Slovenia that 5 judges are carrying out their duties for the whole country? And we have five public notebooks doing one man. How in one Stockholm that has 2 million inhabitants we have 5 public notebooks, and I don't know in Chakovec where I live there are 10, and there are 15,000, and almost every street will have its own public notary. How was it possible for people to pay out loans in the Swiss people for 10 years and after 10 years have more debt than at the beginning of the payment? And that's where we come to what the SDP suggested. They say you should pay half the principal, half the interest. But that's not the answer. Right now, to cut the story short about what's most important, the Living Wall will support it. Because it's a measure of some kind for the benefit of the citizens. We've said it 100 times, and we'll do it again, and I'm glad to be heard by some MPs, board presidents. We are not sectarians, we are opposed to HDZ and SDP politics, but when they give, even such a thin law for the benefit of citizens, we will support it, we will raise our hands. They will not, of course, raise their hands to our law that I do not know how well written and that the public should know who is a sectarian and who is working for the benefit of the citizens. But I want to say that even after this law that gives the SDP, just when it was adopted, the blocked will remain blocked. Maybe they won't pay off their debts for 30 years, but they'll pay off 20, so that's, say, a solution offered by the SDP. So they say we have a rabbit in a 1 metre cage, and now we're going to expand the cage to 2 meters, so the rabbit's going to be a little easier, it's going to revolve around itself a little bit more, and we're going to say, in the Living Wall, move the cage away. That's our solution. It's freedom for the citizens. Citizens should be disblocked, their debts should be bought at a minimum price. All interest and expenses write off, throw out public notebooks and lawyers from the system of performance, the entire executive law abolished and wrote a brand-new beginning that will primarily be extremely social. It is necessary to change the CNB's monetary policy in a way that the debts become repayable because in the current systems they are invaluable. Debts can't be paid. I can't pay from a simple law because there's not enough cash in circulation. Of the 100 kuna in circulation, 7 kuna is cash, and 93 kuna is debt. And the little kid in the third grade knows that seven can't pay 93, it's not possible. 93 kunas can be paid at 93 and no different. And we see what we have, not only are citizens in charge of 10 lives, but the state is in charge, the local administration is in charge, the whole state is in debt slavery and it's slipping towards the Greek script, and this executive law is actually the tip of the ice Santé. Since I'm running out of time, the second part of the debate about this law I'm going to say through an individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82039	Thank you, too. Now, on behalf of the promoter, five minutes will be spoken by Mr. Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82040	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Through the replicas that appeared during my debate and tossing out certain colleagues who are here, I saw that there was a certain misunderstanding of what we suggested. So I will allow myself to give a very brief review of the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations that govern the calculation of fulfillment. Therefore, the calculation of the performance has only 2 articles, these are Articles 171 and 172. Mandatory relationship law. We have proposed to amend Article 172, and this problem that arises when we talk about fulfilling the demand beyond any coercion procedure has been resolved in Article 171. A law on mandatory relations which is not touched by this legislative proposal. And Article 171, to be perfectly clear, says the following: The fulfillment, first of all, goes in the order agreed by the believer and debtor. That's the first one. If there is no agreement, if there is no agreement, then I am in debt and that is something I want to warn all Croatian citizens about, the debtor himself has the right to determine what he pays for when paying his debt. Whether he pays the principal first, whether he pays the costs, interest, if he has 2 or 3 accounts, the debtor determines which one he settles by his payment and by the Mandatory Relations Act. If there is no decision of the debtor, then in regular situations, which search has previously arrived, etc., etc. Let's not list it all. But we do have a situation where these claims are saddened. And after that, we come into the forced collection process. In the case of forced collection, an earlier agreement of debtors and creditors can no longer be valid. For example, a loan contract that has a payment plan. The payment plan is no longer valid in the event of forced payment because the cancellation of the loan contract has led to the maturity of the entire principal of the outstanding debt. Which means the believer, now in the executive procedure, is looking for the principal. As the debtor paid always part of the principal for each annuity, and never only interest, otherwise the debt would most likely not be paid back, in the executive procedure, that is, there is no forced collection procedure. And that's why we suggest that every payment of 50% of the paid goes to the principal. And of course it always goes in the order that the principals came in. If we have 5 principals first settles the oldest etc., etc. 50% on the main, 50% on costs, interest and if any of that amount is left on the main. In this way, the believers will be paid back, guaranteed by this law, not to mention that the debt will not be recovered. That's not what we're going to suggest. If we go into debt write-off, we will deal with these specific laws, we will deal with these specific measures by which, hopefully, at the end of this month or at the beginning of next month, we will debate in the Assembly and hopefully come up with a concesual solution that will satisfy all political options, which is more important than which will satisfy our debtors and our citizens. But here we are talking about the regular situation that happens every day. Some of them may never end up blocking, so it won't matter what order something is paid for because it all comes back through one payment. But all of us here know, that especially when it comes to the loans that have come to payment, we have a situation that suddenly someone is asked for 50, 60,000 euros that almost no one in the Republic has in their accounts to pay at once. And if he did, he probably wouldn't have gotten into a situation to be blocked. And in such a case, in a fully imagined situation of a citizen who has 6.5 thousand kuna salaries, we are in a situation that he cannot pay off one debt for an average housing loan for a small apartment of 50, 60,000 euros. With this proposal, basically no one who is well-intentioned will be harmed. Only those who pre-calculated in advance will be damaged from the strained interest. And for them, respected colleagues and colleagues care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82041	Thank you very much. You also have one replica of Mr. Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82042	Thank you. Dear colleague Grbin, I don't think there's anyone who in principle would agree to do both favors and citizens and what you're saying. And that surely if there were any injustices that should always be removed. But what concerns me with this proposal, so step two. If we distribute that interest is not paid, but that part goes to the expense and the principal, the search engine decides to principalize the interest then. Well, now we've got a lead, another lead, and on that first run, there's still interest on that day, not before. Then we didn't make much of a situation, but then we'd have two majors that would still be paid plus the interest that would go, so I don't think they'd come anywhere. And that's actually what I wanted to ask all the time if something really would change with these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82043	Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82044	My dear colleague, I will try to explain in basic school mathematics. If someone owes five thousand kunas to the principal and let's say two thousand kunas of interest and he paid a thousand kunas. Under the current system, there will still be 5 thousand kunas of principal and a thousand kunas of interest. Interest on interest, as the government said, does not run, it is prohibited by the Law on Mandatory Relations. The interest runs to the main. According to our proposal, if he paid a thousand kuna, 500 kn will go to the head, 500 kn interest. The main in that case will be $4500, the next payment will follow in, say, 3 months. Now I'm asking you, is there more interest on the capital than 5 grand or 4500? I think the answer to that is both you and me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82045	Now, on behalf of the government, State Secretary Mr. Juro Martinovic will speak. You have five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82046	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, distinguished colleagues. So the government of the Republic of Croatia was clear on this legislative proposal and you all got it, but since you're looking for further clarifications, that's why I came to the Croatian Parliament. And I'm particularly pleased after these elaborates that you've given me to say on behalf of the Government and in connection with what we've written as an explanation why this bill of yours amending the Law on Mandatory Relations should not be accepted. Namely, so... And I am not surprised by Mr. Bunjac, the esteemed representative, as much as a colleague of the Grbin on behalf of the promoter, as well as my esteemed colleague Miljenic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you're primarily hitting on social reasons where you elaborate on a very vital, important article of the Law on Mandatory Relations that has its own history. It's a well-known institute that lasts long in the Law of Mandatory Relations. And I'd say why I'm questioning your views. Because you in the Croatian Parliament had twice the parliamentary majority and of course had the opportunity to change this article but obviously you never found legal reasons to change it but now is a convenient opportunity to try to justify this by social reasons. But for those who are not lawyers and for those who listen to us and watch me, I must say that here is not touched by the position and possibly our universal need to be socially sensitive to those who are blocked. Here it is done by two parties in a mandatory legal relationship of which one believer came to be late, so it comes to a delay and violates financial discipline. ... Okay, we understand each other. That's how much everyone knows and not the lawyers. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it violates financial discipline and comes under obligation, so there are additional commitments and that's the price of capital and of tight interest and something else that's above that capital price next to that ordinary interest. We've got one penalization of that financial indiscipline. By calling, by such a change, we give priority to one who does not fulfil his obligation. We said in our argument, therefore, and clearly the government said that in terms of cost, it was completely legally unprincipled. So the believer is in the position that according to a debtor who has failed to comply with his obligation to hire a lawyer, pays taxes and is exposed to the cost regardless of whether or not he will succeed, whether it will be paid or not. So isn't it natural and logical that one who exposed himself to the cost of delaying the other party in carrying out his obligation to settle his expenses before the principal. Furthermore, when we represent the claim that interest should also be charged before the principal, then the reasons are the following. So interest like you said several times today, interest cannot be calculated on interest, and that's a well-known thing. The trustee's money remains with the debtors now in interest form and he, you see, on this proposal must pay no price of capital. It's simply legally unprincipled and no one can seriously advocate such a thesis. So it violates the principle of rule of law, something that everyone, I hope, stands for together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82047	Yes, yes, we saw, yes, Mr. Churay. There's more replicas, the first one has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82048	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, the fact is that in this proposal on mandatory relations is much fairer, and you will admit it, you have advocated this because you have been on the living wall list and this is one of the proposals that you have made and proclaimed, so I see no reason not to support this proposal. We also made these suggestions when it was on behalf of the Most, however, I expect you to at least what was promised while you were on the living wall list, you are now in power to support this proposal. You didn't make a single reasonable proposal, which is why banks would first charge interest and so for 10 years, in the end there are cases di- at the end of 5, 6 years it doesn't pay off at all, a very small part of the principal. It's something normal, it's normal in Austria, in Austria when it was 3% interest, it was 15% in us. It's not against banks, it's just justice like in other states. That's what I expect from you, and only because of what I followed you to the election, I really followed you on the living wall list, so I expect you to present this problem as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82049	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82050	Dear Representative Bulj, for one thing, I've never been on the living wall list, but less importantly. I've never, as a lawyer, advocated such indiscipline in order to make such a blow to the Institute of Law. The fact that you're referring to Austria, of course, that's not true, or you've been checking it out, is a flat-rate claim, and there's no such solutions anywhere in continental Europe. Therefore, the completely deplaced banks there have nothing to do with you suggesting a reduction of the tight interest, I would very much support anyone that it is if there are assumptions that this is done and they are reduced, in relation to consumers but not legal persons when each other is late in payment. So this is all about a legal principle that cannot be defended by any social reasons. If this government had social sensitivity, the fact that we've launched a series of measures, one package legally to ease the position of the blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82051	Time, Mr. Secretary, time. And it seems to me that according to the Rules of Procedure, I can't even give a warning on this side, so at least the Rules of Procedure have agreed. Mr. Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82052	... Secretary of State, so I have to admit that I'm genuinely concerned, you say you've established a task force of the Executive Act and some other laws, so I'm wondering if this task force is working in the ministry or acting on some kind of e-mail? [[The speaker is not enabled.]] In fact, we see that there are institutions in Croatia such as the Parliament, the Government and the Ministry but that the key problems of the state are actually solved in some private circles, in some secret talks, in cafes, at dinners. I'm not much of a supporter of secret societies either, but obviously you act like some secret society. So tell me, does this task force work within the ministry and have known their members or that same task force we're going to find out through any portals that it's made decisions that are essentially completely illegal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82053	Answer, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82054	Dear Representative Bunjac, this question of yours is completely out of the question as it was 98% of your discussion. So you're talking about the Executive Law, we have today on the agenda to amend the Law on Mandatory Relations, and it's a precise, concrete article that has nothing to do with these issues, but when you asked me, I can tell you that the Working Party for the Amendment to the Executive Law is completely transparent, publicly published and it acts within the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82055	Thank you very much. Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you are constantly not reading what is the subject of today's debate. The law first provides for the principal and only when the principal is fully settled because the proposal of a fellow living wall as Mr. Bunjac told you and we will discuss it on Friday. Today we are discussing a proposal in which capital and interest are paid parallelly. So there's no shortfall in interest payments at any point. And, dear colleague, what you wrote in your response to the government, whether you personally or someone else, it doesn't matter, you defend it here today by your own free will, you wrote that the objective of the religious debt ratio is to collect interest. Why do you deny a person in the executive procedure the right to do beyond what you might do? You didn't answer that. And one more thing, don't hide behind our failures. The fact that we may not have done anything to the end or have done good enough does not give you the right not to do your job or act responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82057	Answer, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82058	Dear Representative Grbin, the esteemed colleague of the coat of arms, so the doctoring is something that doesn't benefit anyone, so we simply didn't say that the aim of any process is to collect interest. So it's about an executive procedure that wouldn't have happened if the debtor hadn't come in late. Therefore, there would be no executive procedure, so the believer was forced to go into the procedure, to make his own expenses and to come to a court decision or public notation decision from which to collect his claim. That's the essence of the thing, so the cost must be charged, interest must, because that's his money on which if, if he doesn't charge it, he has no interest to charge interest and you know it well, on the main he has and that's why, not my own, but the legal experts who put it in such a mandatory and legal relationship long ago, and it takes, not just us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82059	Time please, please. Mr. Milnic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82060	Thank you very much. My colleague Martinovic, I cannot agree with your conclusion that such a way would endanger the rights of the believer or even worse to bring down the legal system as you have said many times. So what someone owes, he'll pay it. So if I pay a certain part of the total debt and he instead of going all to the cost, he goes part at cost, part on interest, part on the principal, the debtor gets as much as... What I didn't pay for, it's still on interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's left of the interest I have to pay and I have to pay for what's left of the cost. So in the end with this proposal, you're actually avoiding the interest rate, nothing else. Because that and this proposal are being guarded by the legal system. Because otherwise, you say, you send a message, the only goal of the execution is to charge as much interest as possible, nothing else, which is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82061	Thank you very much. Mr. Martinovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82062	I just have to say more than once that's not true, of course, and you know it's not true. So you have to understand that in a role like this, children can be found who charge the commission against their undisciplined dad who doesn't pay them child support. So this is not just a matter of those blocked for which I would, like everyone in this assembly, settle the matter overnight so they never get blocked. So this is about offenders of financial discipline and those who expect to collect their legitimate unquestioned claim as set out in a public record or court decision. And whoever does not fulfil his obligation must pay what is prescribed by law and by order as prescribed by law, and that is prescribed, what is provided for there is justly and legally logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82063	Or moms who pay child support, have single dads, too. Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82064	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you have repeatedly pointed out here the right, the justice, the financial discipline and the need to respect this financial system and the collection of religious claims. And this proposal also goes in order for the believer to exercise his right to charge both his principal and his interest. Only this proposal goes one step further to help the debtor to be financially able to carry out his financial commitment both on the head and on interest. And I don't see any reason to defend it so vigorously, because we have a situation on the ground that you have people who have lost their jobs, who, not by their own fault, are unable to carry out their financial commitment. On the other hand, you have a believer who will not and cannot pay his dues a claim. Don't offer any other and better solution. This is a constructive solution and we support it from the HSS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82065	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82066	Your Honor. So we have a legal solution, this is an initiative to change the law on this initiative is legally unencumbered, it would violate the rule of law and legitimate expectations of the creditors who came into a position so that the person who doesn't pay them can't pay and therefore not be penalized. It's just a thing we haven't introduced in the last five, in the last 10 years, but a lot more is in the law. This, therefore, is the fact that I am right to say and what I said earlier, so SDP has had the majority twice in this House, never followed this measure. It is today a social issue for which this government has feelings and which has launched a package of laws to facilitate the position of blocked persons to be helped.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82067	Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates. ... Oh, yeah, by the clubs, you're right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms Ljubica Lukacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what we've already heard, my colleague Grbin, on behalf of the motionor, has very, very detailedly described the changes made to this bill. So, when it comes to debt, first of all, I would like to settle the principal for one half of the amount paid by the debtor and for the other half the amount as well as so far. Costs should be, or should be, preferred over interest and principal because they directly burden the believer regardless of whether they will have success in the settlement of interest and capital. Furthermore, interest has priority over the principal because partial payment of the principal would reduce interest and, if we accepted such a proposal, it would mean that the settlement of the principal interest to the amount of the same principal would stop flowing. A debtor who is too late to pay the principal, and because interest is running late, paying only part of the outstanding amount would reduce the principal by reducing his right to tighten interest. As regards the protection of consumers in the regulation of the level of tightening interest rates, it is also appreciated that their fact is that I say the specific situation of the relevant consumer needs their protection because, as the State Secretary said earlier, the rate of legally tightened interest on consumers is lower than the rate of interest provided for in the trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons. Furthermore, the general tax law also stipulates that if the taxpayer owes taxes, interest and the costs of the application from the amount paid are first charged interest and the costs of the implementation, and then the main tax debt of that type... The same rule applies when the taxpayer is entitled to return tax. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the Law on Mandatory Relations does not apply subsidiaryly in relation to the general tax law, except in the case of breakthroughs, the proposed change in the inclusion of the Law on Mandatory Relations could also have consequences for this general tax law. Furthermore, Article 2 of this proposal of the Law requires that the provisions of this Act apply also to mandatory relations arising before the entry into force of this Act, in relation to the fulfilments to be carried out after its entry into force. The question of whether it is constitutionally legal could be the controversial feedback of the entire law because, as we know, it is in art. 90th century, 5th century. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provided and allowed only that certain provisions of the Law may, for certain justified reasons, have a return effect. I am sure that SDP colleagues had good intentions to, as my colleague Grbin said, help those who pay off their loans in some way. However, my colleague Grbin himself said that this is a brief provision, a very short law, so I don't think anything important has changed in these few years, that perhaps such a change could have been made before. Since, as the secretary of state said, no one has ever reached for such changes at all, the HDZ Club feels that it is not necessary to do so now, and for social measures and some other benefits that will help those of our citizens who are in any difficult social situation, this government will certainly be taken care of as was the obligation and all governments so far. Therefore, the HDZ Club will not support these amendments to the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82069	Thank you very much. Now in front of the SDP representative club, Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82070	It's a microphone, all right. Then I skipped the introduction. So, the first thesis that's often heard here, you didn't do it, so neither do we. So, I don't accept that. I'll tell you right now, we were wrong not to do it, we should have. But does that mean that nothing that we haven't done now has to be done by anyone else? So why come to power? Well, you're coming to power to do something better. We're suggesting something here, we haven't seen another argument why it wouldn't be done, but there's an argument, your two governments haven't made, so neither have we. So what is this brave HDZ who dares to do anything that the SDP hasn't done? That's not a good argument. Another argument, that no government has ever touched that. That's right. I'll tell you, we were the government that first reduced the tight interest in Croatian history. No government has ever done this by law before us. That's right, by law in... We're the first ones to do it, check it out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, first we did it, we could say the same thing is never anybody before, and neither will we. The banks threatened constitutional lawsuits, I don't know what they were, were going or not, but the citizens are now paying 30-40% less tight interest. Because we did it. So, there can't be an argument someone didn't make, so now nobody needs to do it. Let's talk about a concrete proposal. I still can't see, and I can't agree to the assessment that he's jeopardizing the legal system. He's not jeopardizing. If someone is in debt to 100 principals, at that point interest 30 and cost 30 and pay 50, he paid 50. On our proposal, the mains will be reduced. Yeah, it's gonna cut the mains in part, but there's gonna be interest on that cut, too. So, the debtor's money, what the believer's money owes him, still goes to the interest on it. So I don't see what the problem is. Except allowing debtors to finally return the principal. So there's no reason to object to this. There's no legal logic. There's no constitutional ban. This is a purely political question that you have here in front of you and in front of every MP, either you vote like this or you vote like that. And I'll tell you what that means. Or you'll vote that when the debtor returns, he can get a chance to cut the capital, but he's still paying that interest, he's tightening interest, let's not forget. He still has to pay everything he owes. We're just allowing him to cut his head and pay a small, tight interest through it. That's all we're suggesting. And that's why we went 50%, we didn't say absolutely go at one. Or you'll say no, we don't want that proposal, we stay what it is today, what does that mean? Big expense. First you're gonna pay the cost, then I'm gonna bust you to the end, and if there's anything left, it's gonna be on interest, on a tight interest, and if it stays behind, it's gonna stay. I'll go back, we made a mistake that while we were in power we didn't bring this and that I'm sorry, that I'm sorry. But that's why we're going with this proposal now. And let's talk, do some simulation, I wouldn't have a problem if the government had come and given some simulation and said that, you're going to produce this or that, but you wrote here that there's actually a whole payment ratio to tighten interest. It's wrong. We as a Parliament, as a legislator, have no obstacle in determining how to charge, as the Law on Mandatory Relations now says one thing, we can prescribe another. There are systems where it's solved differently, there are systems where, when you tighten interest comes up to the height of the principal doesn't go any further, and it exists. So what do we say? If it also destroys the legal system by your logic that the government is responding, it would destroy the same legal system. Well, these countries live quite well and are richer than we are. So let's not twist things, you've given state secretaries an example of the child they're looking for, that this child will charge everything because they'll charge the cost, they'll charge interest, they'll charge the principal, because nobody forgives or gives up. ... That's right, and the interest, don't, first don't throw it at me as I speak, I beg you for a start, second of all, if I didn't pay the principal, he'll get so much interest. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I'll make it possible for the principal to shrink, so whatever it is to him, it doesn't matter to him, it's important to him to get the lead. If she gets it before she gets back, there's less interest going on, so that makes sense. According to your logic, the message is this: let's never let the principal come back because it's best for the believer and that's best for the believer, that's that logic. We don't pay off the principal, so we'll charge ourselves and spin through it. So I'm not saying this is a rescue and it's a magic wand, but I can't accept that it's jeopardizing the legal system and that it's a bad thing. You can say, we don't like it politically, we want to put more on the believers, but on the debtors, we want this, we want this, we want that, and that's because this is politics, this has nothing to do with law, the law will be the way we prescribe it as a Croatian Parliament. The constitution does not prohibit this, the European conventions are not prohibited, so there is no reason for my colleague and colleagues not to vote this out, except for politics. And politics, unfortunately, I don't think it's even thinking about what's good, which is bad, but politics is very simple, the opposition suggests, so we won't come down to it and we may have done it once, but you can be better than us. You don't have to say everything that comes from the opposition doesn't work for you, we won't. So think about it. I'm just calling the government, because the government will depend on it eventually, take one step back, make some calculations, see what it brings, which you don't and don't go by logic proposed by the opposition and we'll just crash it. Think of the people that it brings to them, which it does not bring, to whom it benefits, to whom it does not bring. Give me a receipt, come on out with it. And these floscules, endangering the legal system, are not you, and neither will we, nor is any government, so neither will we, I mean it actually doesn't stand. It's not an argument. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82071	Thank you. Mr Branimir Bunjac. Now it's an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82072	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I want to point out once again that it is not one law problem, that it is not even this government, but the whole system is the problem. The problem is that debts are invaluable and that we can now adopt this law and 10 other similar laws, but it is only fire measures. He doesn't solve the cause of the problem. And the problem is that the Croatian National Bank is neither Croatia nor people's, but the Croatian Bank is controlled by foreign interests that do not allow us to run our own monetary policy. In Croatia, all money is debt and external debt. There's no money in circulation that doesn't represent debt. And Croatia cannot finance what is most important, which is development, nor are citizens' debts at all worthwhile. It's amazing to me when people who are laymen say the last few days, that even some very serious people, that the Living Wall suggests printing money so they wonder who... One notor fact which represents the main lever of the sovereignty of any state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is the U.S. printing dollars? Are the Swiss press francs? Is China printing Juane? Or India? Iran? Is Russia printing laundry? Well, of course he's printing, so what's the issue? Only they do it for themselves, not for the benefit of others. Why we broke our own legs, you took the only way to develop a successful economy and a rich country. Imagine even one Czech Republic in times of great crisis devalues the crown and what happened? What disaster happened in the Czech Republic, with which you scare people with some sort of horror stories for little children? Even one Hungary has abolished the currency clause, transferred all loans from Switzerland to forint and what's wrong with them? Is that why Hungarian citizens are happy or unhappy? And we let a man on a loan of 100,000 Swiss francs pay 500 000 kuna and then be in debt to 110 000 Swiss francs, so how is that possible? What measure can help? What laws, which amendments, which Articles 171 or 1071? The Croatian National Bank is a currency exchange, it is not a bank, and at least Croatia and people. And the bankers are now telling us through the mouth of the state secretary and parliamentary representatives of the ruling majority not, no, the interest has to be paid even though interest has never gone into circulation as cash, says no, you can't bring us any tax, neither general nor special, although in many countries the world exists both general and special tax on the bank. He says you can't change the executive law, they say we'll withdraw from Croatia, we'll go to arbitration, we'll go to court proceedings, and we saw just in case the conversion into Swiss that none of this happened, that it was all an empty rifle. Just like there was an empty rifle in Iceland where the people spent the revolution and finally brought some things into order, where the bankers ended up where they belong, and that's in prison. Imagine now the situation that banks get tax relief on write-offs, so they basically get the equivalent of the debt write-offs, they get the tax relief, and they re-sell that same debt to the demand paying agencies that re-charging it in full, so the debt is charged twice. Believers, real and artificial, charge citizens twice the debt. Banks charge through tax relief, and demand agencies charge directly to the citizens themselves. So how is that possible? So isn't it an incredible injustice that only believers earn huge amounts, illegal amounts, and that the only losers in the whole process are just debtors? If there were will, political will, Croatian citizens would be unblocked by the next first month, a vast majority of them, a vast majority, over 90%. And this country would experience a great reset, this country would experience a great relief, this country would experience one great happiness and be sure that optimism would not go away for years after that. The government that would have the courage to do so would rule for decades in Croatia, but it would have to do so by a government that cares about the people, not by a government that cares about commissions for advisers and consultants, the government of corrupt, local administration of corrupt people who set up public procurement to take corrupt money in white bags in cash on hand, and then launder it through custody accounts, off-shore accounts, and I don't know what kind. There's no courage in HDZ or SDP. Debt slavery can only break the only policy of the Living Wall. And that's what you're afraid of. You are afraid that you will lose money, you are afraid that you will lose material pleasures, not that the citizens will suffer or suffer any damage. You look only at your own interests and you can now take these laws and accept and refuse, they don't solve the problem, the blocked will remain blocked, the thieves will continue to steal, politicians will continue to betray the interests of the people. People will be blocked forever, and unfortunately even when they die, their debts will be inherited because here, unlike Croatia, there is a deadline for implementation in civilized countries. That deadline ranges from 6 months to 3 years. After that, the execution is gone. There is an absolute limitation period, and in Croatia there is no such thing. Therefore, I appeal to the public because of this Assembly Hall, I have no one to appeal to understand that the debts in Croatia are invaluable, that debt slavery in this House's assembly is an indecisive problem and that the only alternative that exists on this issue, that this only alternative represents the Living Wall because it is the basis of the programme, that is one of the main reasons why the Living Wall has ever arised and that is basically the main goal that the Living Wall wants to achieve. Liberation from slavery, liberation from colonialism, freedom, sovereignty and prosperity for every Croatian citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82073	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the debates. Now it's Mr. Arsen Bauk's turn, he'll also have an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82074	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This is one thing, I would say a mathematical question or even a philosophical question that in ordinary life questions what was before, a chicken or an egg. So when you get back the debt of something that you took 1,000 so it's up to 1500, are you going to pay from the first 500 or what you took first to make it grow a little slower, but like this 1,500, it doesn't kill you to pay, it's just a question of whether you're going to pay two thousand or three thousand next month, a year or a lifetime. That's what this law solves. To pay 2,000, not 3,000 if you've taken a thousand, if we have to choose. We suggested a compromise proposal. On Friday, there will be a proposal from colleagues from the Living Wall and the SNAGA, which is something more radical. Unfortunately, even this compromise proposal won't go away because apparently the government doesn't want anyone who took it in charge of a thousand instead of 3,000, paid 2,000. The one who gave the money will make a living anyway. They'll make interest, make interest on what's left, and now it's only a matter of whether interest on interest and interest on interest on interest, and then interest on interest on interest interest on interest on interest on interest on interest and I can talk all 10 minutes about repeating interest on interest, etc., etc. I'm even thinking that wouldn't be a bad idea to warn about what the absurdity of the government is. So the question is, how far? Here, we're proposing 50 proportionally, so as much as you've paid back your debt, to get out of debt slavery and say that at least in that debt slavery, if you have shackles on your hands and feet, you can unlock these on your hands, and then eventually in the next trip you can unlock on your feet and you can pay normally. So this is a purely mathematical question if when you raise a thousand or two, you're going to pay three or two. In many of his decisions, the Constitutional Court evaluated the moment we were in. This was assessed by lex-Agrocor whether it was justified or not, it was assessed in the decision on the Swiss franc, which could probably also assess this, but I don't see the possibility for a second assessment, but that in a situation where a large number of our citizens, a huge number of our citizens are in charge, are in charge of saying that there's an excuse to ease these criteria a little when they pay back their debts. It is the power of the legislator, and I think it should be resolved in a way that's easier than it's ever been before. In this regard, we regret that this SDP representative club proposal is not accepted. We're glad he came on the agenda. Based on the new business provisions, this would be the point that our signatures would put on the agenda, and now I'm glad that it's put on the agenda so that we can put something else about today's events on the agenda. So it's very simple. The law is relatively short and it comes down to the fact that when you pay, you don't have to pay interest on interest, interest, interest, interest, interest, interest, interest, interest on interest,.../The speaker lists "on interest"./... [[You've got six minutes left.]] I think that's enough. I think that's enough, thank you. If anyone else wants to pick up a replica, let them do it now, I won't repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82075	Thank you very much. Now we have one replica. ... Who else is there? [[You can't hear it.]] Three? I didn't see it. The first is Mr. Jovanovic. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82076	Comrade Bauk, can you tell me, since you are the president of the SDP Club, how many SDPs have so far made legislative proposals that have been rejected by the ruling because they pointed out that they will soon pass a better and better quality law than ours and how many such laws have been passed in the meantime?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82077	Answer. Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82078	History is long and the teacher is a life teacher, and when they look at the teacher of life, they say they didn't bring any. And I think we've proposed them in this term of 20th, which seems to me to be five times more than the opposition in the term of office when we were the government proposed laws and didn't seem to me to be any such law, not even the one of last or before last week's executives, where the cramping of the Constitutional Court has defended what we have proposed. So Minister Maric Zdravko explained to the Constitutional Court our proposal for a law that his government subsequently rejected. And such a fate, unfortunately, seems to be waiting for this interest rate law, interest rate, interest rate, interest rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82079	Thank you very much. Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bauk, you mentioned the possibility if this Law was adopted to come to the Constitutional Court and you said that the Constitutional Court would then have to take care of the current economic situation. But the Constitutional Court would have to be led by something else. But that's an art. 49. A constitution that says the state promotes economic progress and the social well-being of citizens. So, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has put into proportion care for the economic system, what the government puts in the only first plan and care for the social well-being of citizens. With this bill of law, we tried to find that exact balance. On the one hand, we do not deny the believers the right to pay the debt, but, as you said, instead of three thousand let two thousand be paid when only thousands were owed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82081	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82082	My whole life I've been trying to look for some kind of proper balance and reason and logic tells me exactly what you said. If someone took out a thousand-dollar loan and knows they're gonna have to pay back a thousand and a half, let's say. And after that he gets into trouble and because of the inability to return he has to pay back 2000, it's still a profit for whoever gave him credit, and he gave it to him to make money, so no one gives for these reasons because he's good, handsome, etc., then it's really the task of the state to arrange these so-called so-called. Mandatory relations exactly in a way to keep account and balance between all the constitutional provisions you said, not that people must return interest, interest, interest, interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82083	No, not enough, time's up. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82084	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bauk, you have said mathematically that this bill goes to citizens to enable them to pay 2,000, not 3,000 things, and thus to be financially stable, liquid and sustainable, the system to be. On this side, it is also socially sensitive because it is certain that it is necessary to help citizens to stay in Croatia and to live from their work and to serve and pay their obligations. This system does not change the laws, respecting financial stability and legal stability we have only helped banks, and our citizens have left the Republic of Croatia because of this inability to pay. And since today the International Day of Birds is a village, we follow the species that are moving, why we move them even chips or rings to know how many are moving, however our citizens are leaving, there is no real record, and interest, interest is growing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82085	Thank you, too. And now we have the final five minutes of Mr. Miro Bulj in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82086	Dear Secretary. My colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law amending the Mandatory Relations Act proposed by the SDP club will support the Most Club, of course, because it is a reasonable proposal regardless of what it will object to, but the fact is now proposed by the SDP and we have no problem with that. But we have information, dear secretary, that the Living Wall has the same proposal, but it is not this proposal as it is now 50-50. So now 50% of the capital, 50% of the interest, and that's reasonable, and that's the math that my colleague Bauk said was simple. And we're a constitutional social state and we'd have to protect that social component, but the fact that interest in the Republic of Croatia is much bigger than in the countries of origin where banks come from, and in this way nobody would essentially be damaged, simply getting it is quite clear whether it's going to be someone when he raises a loan in ten years that five, six years returns literally interest, and the principal stays the same and then the inability... six, seven years to repay that loan that just stays the same debt as when he raised, literally so. Perhaps she is expected, here is a colleague of the SDP as proposing that since a fellow secretary from the Living Wall will enter, perhaps they will support a proposal that I will also support, but yours is more moderate, perhaps on behalf of the Government the Honorable Secretary Marinović will be on the living wall list, that is the fact, Live Wall knows him, I don't know change Croatia that he will support this proposal so trust him or let him promise in the final speech that he will support this proposal. And this proposal of the Living Wall, so let it support if it won't be yours if it's off that list, it's from the Living Wall and the SNAGA list and I don't know. Let's change Croatia and that's a fact. Perhaps your proposal refuses, and accepts, I believe it will be so, is that it is a promise from the secretary who is present here, it is a promise. Not this proposal, yours is a moderate proposal, but a motion of a living wall where the principal would first return, and only later, interest. So first, when the principal comes back, it's only entirely yours to suggest 50% interest, 50% of the principal all the way back through the anuity. Here it's simple... than I'd like to say is the problem of my law. I see no reason not to support this proposal, no reason. This is a reasonable reason. So we have a suggestion that maybe Arsen Bauk would have been better when he was in power that he was dealing with smaller plates about Cyrillic in Vukovar, that he was dealing with what he was now saying interest, interest, interest, interest, but even now that the proposal came I accept it, it's not a problem for me, although maybe there was a time when he was dealing with Cyrillic plates. But I don't see your reason why you don't now accept the proposal from the opposition SDP here's an HNS colleague to accept this and it's perfectly normal to return 50% of the principal's loan, 50% of the interest, and that would make it easier. So the banks in this case don't lose again, they may not get as much profit as in Croatia so far because they couldn't do it in their home countries with their citizens, their entrepreneurs, but they couldn't do it with us either. Here I expect and believe already when Secretary Martinovic said that since he was on the Living Wall list, he is now in the Ministry of Justice as the secretary of justice that I will probably expect to accept the Live Wall proposal on Friday, which says that first the principal will return i.e. It's not the end of the payments. It's the end of the interest. I don't see any reason here. And I repeat again, I will personally raise both my hands for this proposal, and the Most Club will support this proposal because we consider it a reasonable proposal where it will come out in favour, so it is in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it is not at the expense of the banks that are well used. I see that my colleague Misic is happy, I know my colleague Misic you are in power at the moment, but you are still from the Living Wall, so you could replicate to Martinovic and tell him, my colleague Martinovic, so we represented those attitudes, we represented the attitudes to return first the principal and interest, we are you. But you didn't, I'm sorry, but you came through the Living Wall anyway, and yet you're over the Living Wall where you are. And I expected at the very least here because it's your colleague to tell him and point out that this is good for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82087	Thank you very much. Mr. Martinovic would like to say something final on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82088	... So, you know well that I wasn't on the living wall list, which is also relevant, that I would have made it quite clear, but on that subject, given that you spoke a lot off topic, you know a lot that we at one point shared common benches and that you came here at the beginning in the first elections thanks to the campaign that I and my friends funded. [[Specially enabled.]] So much for being clear about it. As for these reasons for "for and against" such a legal proposal, here I consider on behalf of the Government that this law is a legal complete failure, I am sorry that it is. So I didn't hear any legal arguments in the assembly today, I listened to social reasons, and I said that the government has a prominent social sensitivity, that all those who came in late to the delay that we're talking about here when it comes to amending this law, so we're penalizing those who produce financial indiscipline without their own guilt. Those who have fallen into financial difficulties by their own guilt this government will do everything to do through other laws and not altering the foundations of the Law on Mandatory Relations, destroys the legal system for those who, without their own fault, have come into difficulty and cannot pay their obligations, we will resolve through the Law on Personal Excession and in part through the executive law that is being prepared in the Ministry of Justice and which, I hope, after autumn, will find themselves in the Assembly benches. So when a fellow respected agent Bauk says it's a mathematical and philosophical issue, I have to say that this is a principled legal issue, we have to decide if we ignore those who have come into financial difficulties without their own fault, so if we leave only people on stage in mutual business relations, so we can't be on the side of those who violate financial discipline and do not fulfil their obligations in relation to those who have legitimate expectations to collect their claims with part of the pension that comes through a tight interest. A tight interest consists of two parts, and that's one part of the price of capital that we all pay each other when we borrow money and the other part is foam because of the delay. So it is said that this government did not accept any law of opposition, so we will always accept a law that brings quality to the regulation of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and apparently these so far have been legally bad, so we could not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82089	You've done well, but okay, replica, better, better replica than a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82090	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't know how you saw the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would just like to point out here that Mr. Martinovic never entered the Parliament on the living wall list, that he was the first on the list, that he was defeated by Ivan Pernar, from the last place he entered the Parliament. So what Mr. Bull is saying is false. But Mr. Martinovic entered the MOST list, that's true. So I beg you, Mr. Martinovic, when you've already been called by Representative Bulj, to tell you what's true. Have you become a parliamentary representative on the list of MOSTs or have you become a parliamentary representative on the living wall list, please make that clear. So Mr. Martinovic never became a parliamentary representative on the living wall list. Never. There, so much to know. So, Mr. Bull, if you're itchy with the Living Wall, at least try to make up some more convincing arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82091	Thank you, too. The second line has Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82092	Thank you very much. You said you paid me for the campaign, you took out what you paid me, so you can't get in the dream of the vote I won in your village. That's not clear to you. Is that clear? Yes, of course. It's easy to check how many votes I got in my town of Sinj, I didn't go anywhere, first elections, and I won't even talk about other elections how much you got, how much I got. And of course you were on the list but you didn't join the Parliament in this term. But it is true that at this point in time from a list called Live Wall, SNAGA, let's change Croatia or whatever, that list is currently in power, holds the majority. That list of colleagues, Bunjac, I'm sorry you left, is holding most of it, right now, a thin majority. That should be repeated. The living wall, the force, and as the list was called, I can't remember exactly,... No, it's not... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, that list of colleagues of Bunjac is currently [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Mr. Bulj...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82093	Mr. Bull, time's up. And I would also ask the Prime Minister, Mr Martinovic and Mr Bulj to pay attention to the fact that we are talking about the bill's proposal and amending the Law on Mandatory Relations rather than the previous elections. I'm sorry, I won't give it to you. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, we're talking about it, if you need to give, if you need to say something about it then you should say that we should stick to the subject everyone and that's not the topic of the campaign. ... [[Invade Bulj: So tell your colleague Martinovic when he spoke]] No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mrs. Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82094	I'm going to continue now because it's still about some mandatory relationships. And I will repeat once again that no one has funded our campaign because it would mean that money has been donated rather than a loan and you know each other exactly from whom, and it is also known that MOST representatives have entered, so I have continued in the first and second parliamentary elections, and in this local one I have always received one number of preferential votes, or equal number of votes. As for the rest of your association Change Croatia, they fell apart from the HRIDs to HDZ and I don't know what. So, these were also some kind of mandatory relationship, but it wasn't that someone financed us, but it was a loan, we know exactly who wrote in the report, the financial report on Most, who borrowed that money, and when we won the mandates that that money was returned, specifically 200,000 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82095	Mr. Jovanovic, I hope you will talk about mandatory relations, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82096	So I'll talk about mandatory relationships, then. So the Secretary of State said that the laws proposed by the opposition cannot be accepted by the ruling because they are not high enough that I cannot agree with and further, I wonder how is it that by ruling when they are so competent for months after we have proposed the laws they did not accept them? And in this debate now and what the secretary of state was saying, the question has been raised again who entered the Parliament on whose list, who has passed the laws with whose knowledge, so I can't say that the scandalous correspondence of Minister Dalic, by which she should surely be the subject of DORH's research, has just defended or defended the thesis of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Mrs Dalic, I will quote "We have done all this in absolute agreement with our partner, Most then." So what is this justification for the crime committed by Mrs Dalic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82097	Thank you very much. And now in front of the promoter he will speak, he will have the final word Mr. Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82098	Dear colleagues and colleagues, what did this debate, especially this final presentation by Mr. Martinovic, show us? It has shown us that there is a complete misunderstanding of policy and right relations among the ruling because the right to reflect political will is translated into a law that is subsequently interpreted by our courts and create a legal system, a legal order of a country. Any decision to sanction or not, whether it's murder or common theft, is the result of the political decision of the one defined in a particular state as a legislator. There's a Parliament in Croatia. And the parliament's political decision is how interest will be calculated, how interest will be included, and ultimately how much interest will be made. And how interest will be calculated, counted or raised throughout history has changed. And now you're telling me here, you're telling us here that it's always been the same, and it's not. So here's when you're talking about looking for legal arguments, let's go back a little bit to history. Let's go, say, to Babylon. For example, in Babylon, there was something called Hamurabi’s Law that had provisions that they would not believe, about interest. So he said that in the case of a loan agreement, the debtor was protected from the self-will of the believer, so that due to the fall of the summer he could be completely freed from interest. 3,000 years ago, we had a release from interest carved into stone in the form of a single code. But, well, what is the code of Babylon and Hamurabi? We're going to Roman law. In the 3rd century a new era in Roman law is forbidden to take interest when they reach the capital. And then there's the ban on embezzling the dues and the unpaid interest. Why is that forbidden? By the Holy Spirit? No, because that's what the legislator said, the one who made the laws in Rome at the time. And he limited the interest rate to the principal. We didn't suggest it, we didn't even adopt it, maybe we should, maybe we should, but today we suggested something else. I also accept, as part of the ruling majority at the time, that in 4 years and 2000 when I wasn't even a representative, I was a student, and for that I accept the responsibility that we didn't do more. But the fact that it was not done in one term can no longer be an excuse for those who came after. You just said one scary thing. You said after autumn we'd discuss the new Executive Act. Last summer you sat here, not necessarily you, your fellow state secretary and minister, sitting here, promising to solve certain problems. We offered solutions, you said not now about the Executive Act, we'll deal with it right away in a month or two. Now we hear that by the end of this year we are not but only after the fall is over, so in January next year we are discussing the Executive Law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you do not have to accept our proposals, we are the opposition, you are the government, Croatia has not yet reached this level of development to make opposition proposals if they are good accept, but give yours, offer solutions. You don't do that. And as long as you don't do that, we will go with our suggestions and we will show how double-faced you are, how double-faced you are and how reluctant you are to violate the rights of the citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82099	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met and the conditions should be met tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82100	Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading, P.Z. number 311. The proposer is the SDP Representatives' Club, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law amending the Law on Mandatory Relations is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 73 for, 3 abstentions and 34 against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the Parliamentary Labour Authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82101	We move to the final point of today's agenda: - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Personal Identification Number, first reading, P.Z. No. 310 The proposal shall be made by the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU and the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on State Budget Finance. The government delivered an opinion. And now, according to my information, we will have a proposal from the promoter to explain two colleagues in half, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash and then Mrs. Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82102	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Personal Identification Number or a working name of the OIB. It is about one law or one idea of amending a law that refers to approximately a thousand adopted children. So it's a very serious, sensitive issue, it's about children who are adopted and it's about the problem they have with their OIB or their personal identification number. What is spoken of, or what has happened? On 1 January 2009, the OIB was introduced and when the OIB was introduced all the children who were adopted by the establishment of the OIB with their new name in the rule or name received a new OIB. It is equally defined for all adopted which were created after 2014 and 2015 respectively. On 1 September 2014, a new Family Law was adopted, and it was suspended from 12 January 2015 until 1 November 2015 and after that on 1 November 2015 all children who adopt automatically in the adoption process receive a new OIB. But what happened? These children adopted in 2009 by the Family Law, which was held in 2014, were left with their OIB. And what in nature do we have a case? We have a natural case of course wish is to establish e-Citizens, a desire to use all the data we can use, a child comes to a doctor along with his parents, adoptors and doctors in e-Citizens entering the OIB and let's say we call the last name Klaric, a girl who's called Jana Klaric and then an explanation no more, no more I'm not Klaric I'm Horvat, is, is I adopted. And of course the whole waiting room hears about how the girl was adopted or when she enrolls in school again, no, that OIB is my old OIB I'm adopted or one single OIB, I'm adopted I have a new last name. It's really a specific problem, it's about adopted children, it's about having parents of such children call us and they said try to solve this problem, try to do something to make no difference compared to that structure of children. So you have in other material regulations the possibility of getting or getting changes in your OIB and everything else. It's about a thousand to a thousand children who were adopted before this Family Law came into force. Of course, it's not about one of the world's issues, it's not about a law that could cause a fight between one side of the assembly, it's not about something, and we can always say it's about those kids, it's about children about adopted children, it's about one specific and emotional situation where every time you have to explain what's normal, and we don't have to count on it to be normal. And then you get the opinion of the government that we've already gotten used to in what opinion it says the government disagrees with this amendment on the OIB. the reason to be cited is given by two aspects. One aspect is that the OIB Act is relatively simple and would not want anything to change in that law because any change could then open Pandora's box, that I would call it that and go to any other changes or/and try to settle it in the material regulation or that the new Family Law, for which I will not use this place and say which time and the proposals of this Family Law itself were made in public, would be regulated through the new Family Law. Even in some conversation, you can say some discussion, so the OIB Law is relatively politely structured, every material regulation says what happens to changes that can be made in the OIB and on that side you can understand. But you can hardly explain it more than a thousand adopted children and their parents that now they have to wait for some new law, that they have to wait for some new conditions, that they have to wait for a new story. That is why we have decided to go into the proposal with this amendment and the addition of the law, of course there is always a possibility when there is a new Family Law and when it regulates in transitional and final provisions and this part that this part is then put out of force in the OIB Act. But the problem is now, the problem is that we try to solve it and really show from this pay phone in this House that we have a feeling and that we know about the problems they have and if we can solve them, I see no reason not to solve them, and in this sense this amendment and the addition of the law went on. Of course, it is our appeal that we try to at least put it in the process of another reading and then see, but we do know how in this Assembly votes, but it really should be said that it is 1,000, about 1,000 children, that they are in a different position than all the other citizens in the Republic, that these are children whose parents and they have to explain and say every time I'm a adopted child, I don't have a last name anymore, I have some other last name, if once we amend the law we can solve it for them, it seems to me that at least at this point we can all do for those children together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82104	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, the representatives of the ministry of greetings and MPs. So I'll continue on to my colleague, Dark Taritash. Together, as several parties of different spectrum, we have come to the conclusion that this is a law that should be proposed and that will definitely allow these children to better regulate their identity and remove some things that have been unsettled for too long, which can only be solved through a change of a few sentences. But a few sentences and adoption. So the goal of adoption is to provide and protect a child without adequate parental care. When selecting the most appropriate potential adoptor, the traits of adoptors are assessed in relation to the welfare of the child and the time that passes since they determine whether the person who wants to become the potential adoptor, to the child who will enter the family, lasts too long and too long in our country. For the last three to four years, the number of adopted children has decreased significantly. Now we're actually only adopting about a hundred children a year. At the same time, in the homes for children and services centres in 2017 there are approximately 800 children, the capacities are mostly filled, children remain in institutions for years because both adoption and fostering of children is a rather neglected area in our country. The frequent changes in family law and the constant announcement of a new, untimely, largely delayed adoption procedures, processes in which a child becomes adopted, are these meanings, a child who must simply be prepared for adoption and insufficient education, capacitation and activities of the Centre for Social Care are the main reasons why child adoption is stopped. And that is why I also announced, as president of the Assembly Committee on Health and Social Policy, that the 23rd meeting will be held with one title: Why do children not adopt in Croatia? And I would like to add that there are more than 1200 couples and individuals in the adoption register, and in the register of adopted children over 400, and almost all of them are difficult to adopt children, and that is why we felt that one of these laws was necessary for us to amend the law of this law, so the children who entered that legal crack and failed to realize this whole time that they had their own OIB and that the old OIB would cancel out. I have to point out that all the kids who got the new OIB, they still don't have that old OIB, and he's still out there somewhere, and that means he's existing in their testimonies, in their documents, medical records, and everything that's going on in that OIB. So what the colleague said, the Law on Personal Identification Number has been in force since 1.1.2009 and does not regulate the possibility of assigning a new OIB and dealing with the old in the event of adoption. Thus, the law does not provide for retroactive application so that children adopted under the 2003 Family Law and at the time of the suspension of the family law of 2014 cannot be determined by a new OIB. And then we have a government response that is really weird because we felt that we should propose a law where the Republic of Croatia does not guarantee the protection of the identity of adopted children, as well as the protection of their personal and family life, discriminates against children who were adopted before and until this family law of 2014, as well as violates their dignity, but threatens security. We had a situation that some parents who abused children succeeded, with the help of the old OIB that bonded with JMBG to come up with a new identity and find out where the child was. The Government therefore gave its opinion on this law and I must repeat it here, and it states that the Family Law which was in force from 1 September 2014 to 12 January 2015 and the applicable Family Law, which was in force from 1 November 2015, introduced the possibility of amending the OIB of the adopted child, in a way that, if necessary, the adoption of a child in order to protect the rights and interests of the new OIB of the adopted child. So that's what I used for my kid. After nine years of having a foster little girl in my family, after there was really no trouble anymore, and the parents had no interest in her for nine years, there was no one, I adopted a child in two months, and I got an automatic new OIB for her, but these kids weren't able to do it. So this is for me a very personal approach to this law. Therefore, the family laws of 2014 and 2015 have not resolved the question of the possibility of determining a new OIB for children adopted under the provisions of previously applicable family laws, which simplifies that children adopted between 1 January 2009 and 31 August 2014, this was the last day of the 2003 Family Law and between... On 1 January 2015 and 31 October 2015, the possibility of determining a new OIB in order to protect their rights and interests has been denied. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The government also says that the 2014 Family Law, as well as today's family law, has not resolved the issue of repealing the first OIB of adopted children, nor in those cases where the adoption decision, adopted by a certain new OIB. And fourthly, the 2014 Family Law, as well as the current Family Law, is not possible for either the granting of a new OIB or the repeal of an assigned OIB for children adopted under the provisions of the Family Law of 2013. I'll tell you what the current formulation is. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day If two OIBs, or more personal OIBs, are misdetermined, the OIB that was first determined, is that meaning before the child was adopted and later certain OIBs cancel out, and this applies to these children during this period adopted from 2009 to 2014. What we suggest, it's to be added and said article... and says in the event of adoption at the request of the adopter, a new OIB shall be granted to the child and the previously assigned OIB shall be annulled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we keep people in false hope, now the kids are being given a new OIB, and the old one by law doesn't cancel out. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It means all the kids since 2009. And the third solution to the cancellation, etc., is done by the Ministry of Finance. In addition, in its opinion, the government points to the formal side of the problem and does not teach at all that it is not possible under the OIB Law to solve the problems listed in advance by amending the OIB Act but rather that the Government itself will do so by proposing a new Family Law. Gentlemen, you've had, and these SDPs and you, so far, a chance to solve it. We've been waiting too long for the Family Law and we have to solve this problem with this law, the OIB Act. This view of the Government is completely pointless because it is from a formal and essential point of view, regardless of the law on the amendment and repeal of the OIB of the adopted child. In this respect, it is important and important that these problems are finally solved and it is completely irrelevant and these children do not care what is and where it will be solved. So it's important to get rid of it as soon as possible. What is to say is that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the essence of the problem or does not recognize it in its full scope. We only list some of the most visible problems, first, the change in the OIB in adoption requires and requires a change of data in the wombs born, in police records, means residence because you fostered a child or that child you adopt only then can report after you receive the OIB at home, in teaching institutions, pre-school and primary and secondary, in health care, health insurance, health care. You can do all that after the OIB. And you walk from each other's counters. Changes in all these records must be automatic, not only for the avoidance, walking and walking of various counters, but primarily for the protection of personal data and the privacy of the child, so the fact that this child is adopted. The issue of how to resolve the problem of public documents, basic school certificates issued with the old OIB after the OIB has been annulled and seconded, where and how to decide that there is a possibility of connecting these public documents with the new identity of the adopted child without the introduction of unauthorized persons. So, you have a situation where these kids end in the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th grade, they have to get into the first grade, they're adopted in some 7th grade, the problem is how to sum up that kid's got points so he can get into the 1st grade regularly, that's the problem this country has to solve, I'm not saying I know how to solve it, but I'm suggesting that we should think about it. These children are still the problem, especially now that they're being entered, they're all online, it's becoming an insecure problem for parents. Finally, but in no way important, the issue of JMBG, through which access to the public internet system is simple today, can be achieved by a valid OIB, etc. So, that this problem is not banal, all adoptors and even most adopted children know, because what is the real protection of the privacy of adopted children in the Republic of Croatia is best illustrated by the fact that even on the website of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia for years there have been publicly available decisions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which state the full names and last names of adopted children and now adults. I have received links to those decisions of the Constitutional Court and once again I warn you, you have decisions of lower courts where they are placed for adopted children's initials but the Constitutional Court on its website says it is an adoptive person and lists the full name and last name. So I believe there's a good will to get rid of this, I think waiting for a new Family Law doesn't make sense, I think we should let these kids get away with it, and not be discriminated against by all these kids who already have the right to get a new OIB, but to solve that, and to make sure that all the kids that got the new OIB, that they're also being annulled, that they're still standing as the problem we're pointing out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82105	Thank you, too. You have one replica, not you, but Mrs. Mrak-Taritash, of Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82106	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's our colleague and colleagues, we just saw our lovely colleagues Mrak-Taritash and Strenja-Linić that we have a bill of law of several different spectrum parties that solves the problem of 1,000 children. So it's about a little technical change that is very important and that the ruling does not accept again just because it comes from the lines of opposition. Otherwise, this week is interesting because it is finally a lot of proposals coming from the opposition ranks, so let's do a precedent and let's support this proposal that came from the lines of GLAS and MOST because it's a technical proposal that has great meaning for 1000 children and I think we should finally get the strength to pass some laws that aren't being rejected just because they're from the lines of opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82107	Mrs. Dark-Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82108	Thank you very much, Vice President. Kola Jovanovic, long water will flow under the Sava Bridge before we have the opportunity to see that some of the laws that come from the lines of opposition are accepted in the Assembly. You know how much trouble we have that some amendments that are purely technical, technical elements are accepted, so joy on this side of the assembly when that happens. I must also tell you that today was a very interesting day on the Legislative Committee to which all the bill's proposals are coming. There were 11 bill proposals, all 11 of the bill's proposals were by the opposition, which is in support of the obvious rule of law making big reforms for us, so when they start with that force of the law, we'll be buried. Of course, it's sarcasm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82109	Thank you, too. Now it's in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82110	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. It's not good when one of these laws that gets... to experience emotionally, swims into political waters, which, unfortunately, has now happened in some discussions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And what everyone should know is that family law regulates adoption. And if we're going to remember the debate when we adopted the OIB, it's one of the few laws at that time that was adopted by consensus, and it's certainly one of the laws that is the biggest reform procedure of the state administration, and then we clearly said that the goal of the OIB is to become a tool that will make official records... , to exchange data through web services, there will be no more waiting in line for confirmations, there will be no more tags, like-so, that's the goal of the OIB. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's the OIB Act. However, when you miss, as the subject says, you want to insist on some things that simply do not stand. Because if the 2015 law regulates the adoption of children, the conditions for amending the OIB are automatically met, then the legislator made one big mistake. He had to solve the problem of those others who weren't dealt with by that law. If that problem was then solved by this law, then this problem is solved entirely by the same law. Because look, you now have a part of the children who were adopted after 2015 when the Family Law came into force, to solve their OIB's problem with this Act. And you are now proposing something else for one unfortunately empty space that remains by the error of the proposing then, that this problem be solved by another law. That's what's not good and that's exactly what, but here in an individual debate I'm going to tell you some things about the OIB, which was why it went into the making of the OIB and that things like this don't happen right now. That by one law, an entirely identical question that applies to living people and that you will obviously not all experience emotionally is not regulated by two laws. It is not clear to me, too, if a colleague Mrak-Taritash and a colleague of Linić-Strenja, when speaking on behalf of the promoter called for the Law of 2015 which regulated it from the entry into force of this Act, then it was a logical thing, if that Law regulated a period, then it was a logical thing to amend that Law, the proposal to amend that Law to resolve this air-empty space of 6 years. Was it logical? Because look, in the Law that solves the problem of adopted children, there is no mention of the Tax Administration, nor the Ministry of Finance, nor the OIB, but only in the Law, it is said that it is possible to change the OIB if it wants to, that based on the adoption solution, it can be made. And good thing you didn't mention either of them when you were telling colleagues of this, on behalf of the promoter, that there was a possibility of changing your last name to the old OIB. However, there is also a danger for those children who have unfortunately had some kind of trauma in life, etc., that someone through the old OIB might come up with their new identity. And that's probably why whoever proposed Family Law in 2015 went with that solution. But I repeat, the only good and quality solution is to address this problem by amending the Family Law. Finally, he had to get rid of himself in final and transitional provisions. Now, that's what you call it. bound laws. When you pass a new law and if it tags some past tense, you must define how this law will apply to it. The other thing is, you're getting into art here. The 11th, which frankly, has nothing to do with this. Article 11 refers to an error in the assignment of the OIB and nothing else. This isn't a mistake. A child's adoption is not a mistake, it's one human thing for someone who wants to help a child. It's not a mistake. And it's the wrong message if we put it in an article that speaks of error. It's my fault the message, clear from the human side, is a completely false message. But I repeat, and this is what I told my colleague Mrak-Taritash on the Committee on Finance today, I don't see any problem that unless the government goes with the Family Law at some point in time, that an intervention should be made to allow only a change of this article and to allow the problem of these children to be solved. And then we stay in the system. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, if we open up the possibility of amending the OIB Act, which you look at, you can say whatever you want, but from 1.9 to today, he hasn't had any changes. We're opening Pandora's box. And by opening that Pandora box, I'm going to do something more in an individual debate that can be very, very dangerous. So let's leave the OIB to be something that is, and let the lex specialis law define who it must have, why must it have it, and if these things happen, to be understood, this is the only time in one law and the only possibility to change the OIB. You don't have that kind of opportunity in any other law. So the only possibility is given in this law for the simple reason, for human, for this, for that reason. So it's given to fit into the Family Law. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance had no objection to that change. And it's good that the government has made such a concise explanation, no matter what some of them may have read a little bit of far-fetched reasoning, but they've read far less than they understand the Law of Personal Identification, which his intention was and what the OIB Act has achieved in these, we can now almost say nine years now. How much order he has introduced into the state administration and how much data today in the mutual withdrawal of information from authorities, so public institutions, can pull each other out so that citizens don't need to look for them. So that's what the OIB did. I'll just tell you one example, colleagues and colleagues. At the moment of the introduction of the OIB in grantovnica only about 20 % of the owners of real estate in Croatia were seduced through JMBG, and JMBG was bound to so say the element of the foundation that was established by the OIB people because in our places you have several people who have a completely identical name and name and it is very difficult to withdraw, but JMBG is the one who helped to clear it up. You in the garter today, I think, regardless of all the trouble that it is, you don't even have 30% of the property owners that have been translated into the OIB. So the HDZ Club can't support this bill for the simple reason that it missed the target, it missed the goal and it missed the purpose. Because look at your colleagues and colleagues, if by one law, and that's the 2015 Family Law, we regulate the change of the OIB, wasn't it logical if there was a problem with some time period to solve this same time period in the same law that regulates what happened then and what happens in the future, because it makes sense for me to have one topic solved in one legislative proposal. You're proposing the exact opposite. You suggest that one topic be settled in two legislative proposals, and that's what's not good, that's what's not good. And we're going to make a mess and we're going to make a mess of what counterparts Linic Strenja said about the child in the seventh grade, if it goes according to this family law, the institutions know exactly which one to forward the information to and everything that was on the old identification number will be translated into a new identification number, they are obliged to make institutions, not the one who adopted the child. That is why we have introduced the OIB not to wait, but to the institutions to use the technical possibility and to exchange data with each other. And when we talk about this law, then we have to look strictly at that regulation to work and to benefit our citizens, and not to talk about it like this, because I repeat, for the third time, colleagues and colleagues because normally those adopted exist in 2015 are resolved with the Family Law, and those adopted between 1.9.2009 and 2015. That doesn't make sense. So that problem needs to be solved with one law. And I repeat what the government said, so this needs to be solved by the new Family Law, and if this new family law doesn't see the light of day anytime soon, then that problem has to be solved by intervention in the Family Law, so to solve that problem, because I repeat, but I will say that later in an individual debate, I will say some things. The personal identification number has revealed a lot of things, and when I tell you some numbers, then it will be clear to you why, and as a legislator of that law and in a certain way and its, come on and the creator, we have not allowed anything to be installed in that law other than shrewd, technical provisions, who, how and when must have an identification number, and by the moment the identification number is introduced, you will see which many institutions did not have a number based on which they could be fully identified by the same criteria. And so any such intervention breaks down a law for which no one has felt the need to change it for 9 years, not a comma, not a point, but simply let's solve this problem the way it was solved in Family Law 2015, then the legislator obviously predicted this and did not predict what was being solved for the period before the law and I think that this problem can be solved without a problem and that it will be practically supported by all MPs. But this simply is not a good proposal, I cannot accept that solving the problem of adopted children is solved in an article on error. Because first of all, it is something human, something noble, and then it is simply not possible to solve this problem in an article that speaks of a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82111	Thank you. Mrs. Christmas, at least in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82112	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. If we looked at the amendments and amendments to the OIB law, everyone would think, given these few articles of the amendments, that it was a purely technical law. But this is about fate. It's about the fates of 1,000 children, it's about children who are adopted, who are going through difficult periods of their lives, through stress, as well as their adoptors. That is why it is good to raise this issue and this question needs to be resolved. There we heard a few thoughts, we heard from fellow Shuker, we heard from the government representatives, and our thinking at the club is, given that it was a problem that arose in 2015 and where it was regulated by the Family Law, that it is necessary and now it is right through this law. Namely, the OIB Act, here's one of the laws that's really technical in nature that hasn't changed for almost 10 years, and that's one of our few laws in which there was no intervention, which means that the law is good. But there's also this and this problem needs to be solved. We need to solve the second OIB's assignment because of all these facts that we've talked about here, which are listed and really that's the problem that exists. However, it should be seen when this new Family Law is going, and really if it is not in front of us soon, I suggest to the Government that it has insight into these data or when the law is going and when it is planned, that it really initiates the resolution of that problem or the assignment of the OIB for adopted children. It's about a thousand children who will have the possibility or their adoptors of that choice, but that it's about one child and that we can protect the privacy of a child who has his own intimacy and has no problem with which he often encounters as adopted and because of all these facts that his colleagues have stated there, I think we need to resolve it, but not through the OIB Act, but through the Family Law. So I ask the Government to fix this problem as soon as possible and refer it to the legal procedure at least if we do not have a new Family Law on our benches in a short period of time. So in front of the HNS club, I'm saying we're not going to support this law just for that reason, even though the initiative is really correct, it's really okay, and it needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82113	Thank you. Mrs. Ines Strenja-Linić in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable MPs who are here. It's bad when someone wants to say patheticly that children are not a mistake and that it doesn't belong to this article because the mistake is that it hasn't been solved until now, the mistake is on the SDP who wrote such a law in which he left out those children, the mistake is that in that law it's not even said how it's going to undo it all, but it's not the only mistake that we have to solve it. And I'm sorry that there's really no hearing because no matter how much you say this law hasn't changed so far and let's not change it and what it is and what malversions it's found with it, I'm not interested in it right now. I'm interested in solving these children's problems, so children who don't have a protected identity in the way we're supposed to do it. And I will only repeat once again that the existing legal regulation discriminates against adoptions who, because of the inability of comprehensive and quality data updates in all public and state institutions, cannot exercise fundamental rights to health care, etc., thus jeopardising the further privacy of adopters due to the lack of a single database of all public and state institutions and the lack of adequate IT confrontation. Almost all public and state institutions have their own databases based on the OIB in which the child is led according to the data they received at birth, that means that a large number of public and state institutions employees have access to old data, which should not because adoption must be a secret child and get a new identity, etc. It violates the dignity of adopters and their parents because they are forced to exercise the rights provided by the Constitution and the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia continuously present their intimate stories to unknown persons in these inappropriate places. This can be particularly stressful and harmful for children of older school age and teenagers who at that time become aware of their life stories that are most often not easy, have to accept it, live with it, which in itself is difficult and exposes adoptors to the abuse of privacy of personal data because through JMBG you can reach the OIB and vice versa so that any information written or written person using the OIB or JMBG can come up with data on the child, so the new name and address and abuse in various ways, discover new information to biological parents. So we had examples that they were able to get to them and follow what was particularly dangerous when it came to adopters of another ethnic group. Therefore, the proposal for this law supplementing the OIB Act puts the protection and interest of children first and eliminates illogical and legally unsustainable non-consistency i.e. inconsistencies resulting from the adoption of children having different legal treatment and different levels of legal protection. And I'm going to tell you a few more words about only adopting for those who might want to hear about it today. And what's adoption? The adoption is a special form of family-rightly care and childcare, without adequate parental care that enables adoptive parents, and the child to grow up in a family environment with responsible parents. Children who grow up outside a parent’s home should be able to spend childhood surrounded by love and attention to those who are not their biological parents, but are willing to give them that love and are adoptors. So not institutions if at all possible. So when adoption comes, there is a merger of three fates, and it is the adoptors of parents most often suffering from inability and reproduction, and then decided to love, protect, raise, and follow a child who is not biologically theirs. Then women and men who have the biological ability to create a new life, but who are unable or unable to take responsibility for a child and a child who has been deprived of parental love from birth. The child may also be adopted if the parent has consented to adoption, if the parent is deprived of parental care because of neglect and child abuse, which takes too long and too long, if the parent is completely deprived of his or her business ability or if the child is of unknown origin. Therefore, the interest in adopting children in Croatia is great but those who have gone into the process complain that it is too often long and complicated, it requires a lot but often there are problems and parents who do not want to give up parental rights, social services that are delayed by taking away parental rights, and then children grow up in a home for careless children while potential adoptors lose the battle with time or age because the law attributes the age to which a child can be adopted. And because of this, less and less adoptions in Croatia each year, unfortunately, because we believe that we should primarily adopt children from our homes into our families, there is an increasing trend of departure and with certain financial benefits for the adoption of children from Africa and other countries. So currently in Croatia, about 100 children are adopted annually. I believe that the system is not well-organised enough to support rapid, efficient and transparent adoption, however, adoptors also have unreal ideas about what adoption is. The child is adopted for the sake of the child and not for the adoption of the child, so there is no choice, and there are not so many children who have given up at birth that there is neither father nor mother, that it is healthy, that it is a very small age and that it is ready for adoption, there is no such thing. There are children growing up in homes waiting to get rid of some kind of parental care and unfortunately spend too long in homes. So adoptors have unreal ideas about what adoption is. Children often come from families that were not functional or were not responsible for caring for a child, which surely leaves a mark on him. It is because the child we adopt has a history that must not be ignored, adoption is not only a substitute for a child who could not have a biologically but contains a special kind of responsibility. This is not a noble act but often stems from personal tragedies and losses and adoptors and adopted children. So, according to my 2015 data, there were 663 children in the homes, and this is constantly changing, and there were more than 2,500 children in foster families. I am, as you know, a great supporter and foster care, so not all children can be adopted, not all of these children are deprived of parental care but those children must not grow up in institutions, children must be fostered, they should grow up and if conditions are created, they should return to their biological family if the reasons for which they are singled out, managed or should be adopted. But institutions can't spend their lives. So, the fact is that children stay too long in their homes and then pass a time when it would be easier to adopt them and the biggest reason is the system's uneditedness and unreality of adoptive desires compared to the real state of children in Croatia. So young couples who want to adopt most often seek an ideal child that does not exist because when you give birth to a child, you do not know what it will be like. If there are any problems, it should simply be handled. So I don't think adoption can be ideal because we're not ideal either, but love will eventually make its own, children who have been left with the love of their parents flourish, believe me. In the Republic of Croatia, most children are adopted from the social care system, so they are children who have been separated from their biological families because of neglect or abandonment and sometimes because of violence and abuse. Such early experiences can leave a mark on children and the usual forms of parenting simply at that time are not enough, and the system needs to be entered, both psychological and rehabilitation and logod and all other services are needed, supporting children to make up for early abandonment and its consequences in the shortest possible period of time. And that's why it takes both before and after adoption. And just for a little while, she would like to say about the life of children to whom attention should be drawn from children’s homes. So, we know that in children's homes up to 18 years of life or until the end of schooling, and then very often they are left to themselves, they have no capacity, they have no acquaintances, they have no relatives, they have no one who can help them get out of that home, and it's good that what in some units of local self-government is recognized, they are organised housing communities where these children can start their own lives, they can find a job on their own, it usually comes down to the individual care and will of the directors of these children's homes who are actually trying to find their own relationships in the local community for such children a job. I think this should be dealt with systematically because these children must not end up as did some in homeless homes because it was also an example, here in the last few days, we have a good example in Zagreb where they were stationed after being in homeless homes in a residential community and from that community slowly 3 boys went, got their job, managed to finish some school and get a job and start a new life. So, systematic care of children, children without parental care, children who are in homes where it is necessary to regulate all things legally related to these children. Once again I call you, consider, the Family Law is still very much, the Family Law is one story that tells you how to adopt children, which is all it takes to get the ultimate act of adoption but this is a concrete thing. So, solve the OIB old, undo everyone, all the kids that get the new OIB by adopting, they're all the kids that are under this new law and solve those kids who couldn't get a new OIB in that one legal crack they didn't actually cover and I blame one and the other, but we put everything aside now who's guilty, I think we can do this with one of these little changes to the laws that we're going to vote tomorrow, solve these kids because it's not just 1,000 kids that didn't get the new OIB, but it's also about a couple hundred kids who got the new OIB but their old ones are still going. So, we don't have time, we solve it this way, and we show good faith, one little sign of our support to these children who actually deserve all the support of our society when they're not already lucky enough to be born and grow up in happy families like any family should actually be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82115	Thank you, too. Now it is Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82116	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I have to agree with my colleague Shucker that the OIB Act is one of the most successful reform laws that has passed a lot of good and should indeed be congratulated on everyone who has passed this law. But I cannot agree with him that the adoption of these amendments proposed by colleagues Strenja-Linić and Mrak-Taritash would open Pandora's box and disrupt all the good that the law has passed. Therefore, we at the SDP club support this amendment because it is in the interest of children, adopted children, fosterers and simply cannot believe because so far we have never seen the promise that this will be resolved by ruling some other law or by the same law, we have not seen that they have experienced a certificate in reality. Therefore, in unbelief that they will resolve it as they propose in the government's explanation, I urge you to support a proposal coming from the lines of GLAS and MOST. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82117	Thank you very much. And now two individual debates, the first one has Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I didn't say he was gonna open Pandora's box of this, but there's something else he'd like to say. So if one area is solved by one law, you can't single out one segment and solve it with another law. So we have a 2015 law that says adopted children can get a new OIB. And then the logical thing is if we want to solve this problem that the legislator then simply predicted, he didn't have a bad intention, then he solves himself with that law. And why am I telling you this? Because at the time of the adoption of the OIB, about 300,000 natural persons who simply could not be identified with anything had to be resolved. 23,000 legal people you just couldn't identify with anything. And now listen to this, colleagues and colleagues, you weren't defined by the county, cities and municipalities, no funds were defined, no monitoring of buildings were defined, no consular representations and embassies were defined, and all of this was put up by the OIB where it should be. So you had in one city that the mayor was bound, in fact that the city was bound to a number that was then financially from the council, in the other was bound to the headship, you had an unequal and colorful picture of Croatia. The persevering work has come down into frames now. From legal, physical people and beyond. But all that was done didn't require the need to change the law, and why? Because when we decided to bring it to the ministry, the OIB was based on the experience of the problems we met in our work and a series of consultations. And that's how a law is made that just works how it works. But the laws that regulate certain things, they must define that because of the danger of it, that or that can be done what the OIB Act says can't and that's that someone can have two numbers. A simple solution, a solution comes to the tax administration, tax administration based on that solution and the provisions of a certain law do what must be done and pass on the data to all those who need it. Look, colleagues and colleagues, today over 50 institutions are using you online to connect with the tax administration all the data you need and also the tax administration uses it, if it hadn't been for the OIB, it would have been impossible to do. So remember fellow Jovanovic, and you, while you were in government, your colleagues who proposed certain laws, could never have made them if it hadn't been for the OIB. And therefore, I did say that this law in which man is very difficult is very difficult. On the one hand, purely professionally, professionally, you have to stick to professions, professions as some things are done, and on the other hand, you are humanly aware that you need to solve this kind of problem that is very human. But if someone has already said in the 2015 Act through the Family Law that it can be solved in such a way, then it is logical for me to do things and analogy to add in this article only one or two other provisions that define this empty space of 1. The 9th to the entry of this family law itself. And then we have in one place solved and what happens at the time of the law's entry into force in the future, and in those transitional and final provisions we have defined what, the time period since it wasn't regulated and we have everything in one place. Whoever enters the Family Law, reads it, will see how he can solve the problem if he encounters that problem. But this way, if he enters the Family Law, how does he know it's him, it's been regulated since 1.1.2015. How does he know this area is regulated by the OIB Act? There's nothing he can do about it. And that's why today was a suggestion to her colleague Mrak-Taritash as a proposal that I respect and appreciate that the simplest thing to do is to solve it in this way, to put it where this problem is already being solved, and that's family law. This is on the one hand a confirmation to the promoters that they have hit the core of the problem, and on the other hand the responsibility of both of us MPs and the Government to say that we will not legally torture it like this in one way or another but simply that we want to do it right. Because I repeat, I didn't say no to this 23,000 legal persons, I didn't say 300,000 natural persons, I wasn't talking about one city being bound to the number of heads, and the other to the city council, and not talking about a number of other things, and what I said to the garter, that's true, check it out. At this point I think more than 30% of the owners of real estate in Croatia are not connected to the OIB. Now take it when the investor comes and that's how you need to identify some kind of particle. And that's a colleague Orsat Milenic two years ago when we discussed the subject here admitted, then there was 25%. So it's just facts. And why now that we've all said it's something good and it's done the right thing, it's helped those who work in public institutions, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, look at the basic idea of the OIB was that the citizens of Croatia, let's say you're looking for a child's allowance, you're applying, and you don't have to do anything anymore in principle. The one who writes a solution through technical solutions and protocols as it comes to information withdraws all the data he needs and you as the applicant of the request just get a solution to the home address. That was the meaning of the OIB. But at that point, the equipment of the information administration was desperate, so it had to be done, it had to be technically equipped, and there was resistance from some people who simply didn't want to do it. But today, when you look at which institutions they communicate, we have come to that. And that's why I said we could open Pandora's box because someone can cheat and say, if it's done like this, now I'm going to ask for some special thing to be incorporated into the OIB Act. And we come up with something if something worked for nine years when those adjustments were done, when it was all complicated, no one found the need to change that law. We come now in one human intention to help... to change children something that shouldn't be changed, and we don't change what in the law in which it is already defined is defined by the Family Law. And so what I said today and on the Committee on Finance, let's go if the government doesn't go soon with the Family Law simply install it in one article and solve the problem and then we have a single problem solved. And this way colleagues and colleagues won't be well in one place we'll have one problem, in another place we'll have a legally solved second problem. All of us who have been involved in lawmaking with our associates well know that we have always sought as simple as possible laws, laws that will be clear and acceptable to those who can practically read what they are interested in. Let us not make people read a few laws and ask again what will be the result. That's why what you said today, Mrak-Taritash, on the board, I fully agree, but let's wait first for what the government will do on the basis of what it wrote in an explanation not to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82119	Thank you, too. One replica, Mr. Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82120	My colleague Shuker is completely incomprehensible to me why you're standing up like that. This is not at all about changing the essential foundations of the solution and of all possible institutes incorporated into the OIB Act, none of which is questionable at all. This is about one specific thing that needs to be solved by this very law. Why? The OIB Act defines who and how the OIB gets. That doesn't solve family law. We now have a situation that the 2015 solution for children adopted after 2015 is not applicable properly because certain state services say that it does not appear in the OIB Act. So this isn't about any marifetteluk that's going to get someone to exercise a right that doesn't belong to him. This is about protecting the identity and privacy of thousands of children, a problem that has arisen in the past that needs to be solved now. And it's the least we can do, so we don't touch the foundations of the law at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82121	Would you like to answer Mr. Shucker? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82122	Yeah, yeah. Look, colleague Beus, it's hard to admit that you were wrong. I didn't say at any point that this was a manifestle, not at any time, God forbid, though very chosen words I was talking about this. However, if you have something settled in one law, you have in the Family Law decided that these can get a new OIB. I can. Yeah, if he asks, he can, if he doesn't ask why he'd get it. Well, look, you have kids who just don't feel their adoptive parents who don't feel the need to look for new OIBs. If he's looking for him, whoever asks for him will get it. But I repeat, you have installed this amendment in article 11, which speaks of error, at least that you have formed a new article or something, but you have embed it in an article that speaks of error. Therefore, Article 11 refers to an error in the allocation of the OIB when two OIBs appear and that is what is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82123	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the Proposer and Proposer, because this is about Mrs. Anka's clubs, Mrak-Taritash will have the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82124	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. It's about a specific situation. It's about this situation, we're all saying we have empathy, we have a sense of it all together. But the thing is very simple. Whether you want something or you won't solve something. If you want to solve something, you'll solve it. If you don't solve something, you won't solve it. In particular, this amendment and the addition of the law does not apply to future behaviour, does not apply to a number of things, it refers at the moment to 1,000 children and their adoptors who have a problem and refers to another group that they have received from the new OIB, but they are left with an old OIB, and by law, if you have 2 OIBs, then it is worth the first one. So we still have that problem. I understand a fellow Shucker who did the OIB Act, and we have no doubt that the OIB Act is bad at any time, but at this point we think it's the right thing to do, that what you're talking about is really being introduced by the OIB Act, that it's a terrible lot of help to all of us who did, but at this point we're talking about an amendment to the law that would apply to 1000 children, 1000 adopted children, so specific children, adopted children to the problem their adoptive parents have, I deliberately call them parents because I think it's a relationship that came up and that we don't solve. But we said the problem okay, we'll deal with it in Family Law. And then we said another sentence, or you said on the ruling side that I listened to carefully, which is: if the government doesn't present a proposal for a new family law or something else in due course, then we'll do it. What I said on the Finance Committee, I repeat this time. The way the proposal went with it went in a way to solve the problem of children, the problem of adopted children, the problem of children and their adoptive parents. Likewise, there was no and there was no reason to be vain with any of us, if the promoter suggested something, and the government concluded that it wasn't good, so the government always has a chance to say the idea is good, but the legal proposal has to be different, and we would all say all right. And what I said on the Finance Committee, I repeat from this pay phone. We're not giving up on this story. So you're going to vote against this law, he's not going to go into another reading, he's not going to have enough hands, and we all agree that we're really taking care of the kids, we're taking care of those 1,000 kids, and we all have a terrible empathy to solve this, but we can't solve it that way and you said how we can solve it. We're not going to give up, we're going to be stubborn, so we're going to go with a proposal to amend the family law. And then I'm very interested in it, because our discussions are being recorded, and I'm convinced, and we're really going to see that, and there's going to be a reason for the government to say that it can't, and they're going to find a reason why it can't. Perhaps the reason will be the new Family Law, perhaps the reason will be that the proposal has not been made properly, it may be that it does not comply with some other regulations and I am very interested in what will then be an explanation of why it cannot go. After the vote on this law, we will immediately move forward with a proposal for a new law. My colleagues and colleagues, there are few of us, the end of the day is, even though we no longer enter those late evening hours that we used to enter, it's not a topic that's so interesting, it's not with... We'll be back in '45. or anything, we're going back to a relative period that's not so far away, so it's not in that sense some kind of debate, I'd use one word, but I won't because it's going to be misused, but you know there are those who would talk on the elbow, and I'm out of them, it's not some kind of sexy debate, so now it's interesting, and now there's each other, but there's a debate where we just want to solve the problem of 1,000 children, 1000 adopted children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We wish that when they go to a doctor, when they go to school, they do not feel like children or citizens of the second order, but rather feel like their peers and like any other child, no more. That's all we want. Absolutely, I understand a fellow Shucker who defends the OIB Act and doesn't want anything to change there because he's worried that if we change anything, there'll be someone else. So I can't say on that side that I don't understand it all together, but the ones we talked to said it was a way, listened, made, came before you, tomorrow would be a vote because they probably got the conditions for it, we won't give up. We'll be stubborn and we'll make an amendment to the family law in the way it comes from this debate, like when you have the law in the first reading, and then the MPs in the debate point to something, and we'll act the same way, so it's not a second reading, it's a new amendment, and we'll prepare a new amendment to the family law in which we'll exactly listen to you from the debate and do it that way, so I'm very interested in what's going to be the reason why it can't go. I only ask you, there is little of us, listen only to those who still have the will or have the task of having to be there, we have 1,000 children, 1000 adopted children, it is not only on an emotional level, but also at the level of everything that is respected colleague Ines Strenja-Linić who has her own personal experience speaking from this pay phone. Who among us has the right to prevent these children from having an elementary situation? That when they enroll their OIBs, they get the last name they live under, not the last name they were born under, and under which they were unhappy. It's to get that when someone types into the e-citizens their OIB to come by the last name they're happy with, in a family where they've got all those conditions for normal growth, not the last name they were born under and were just in that valley of tears and accidents. Think about talking about thousands of children with this law and not standing up for empathy, compassion, and everything else. Very quickly, I hope from this pay phone we will talk again about amending each other's laws and I am livingly interested in what will then be a reason not to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82125	Thank you, too. And you have replicas from Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82126	My colleague Mrak-Taritash, you were in the government that set this topic by the Family Law. So the only place to talk about OIB adopted children is Family Law. You were in that government. I didn't say anything else today but that the subject simply had to be regulated in the same place. The second thing is very interesting that no one here today quoted what the Ombudsman's opinion is about children who say, amending the OIB Act that would allow the change of the OIB would not in itself ensure the necessary protection of children's privacy, and possibly disrupt the already established system of application of the OIB. So that's the lawyer's opinion for the kids, that's not what I wrote. But I'm just taught in life that some things go their own way. Therefore, if the Family Law has regulated this area, let us change the Family Law or change it to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82127	Answer, Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82128	Comrade Shuker, you and I were in the government. I was in the government where, since 1 September 2014, the Family Law which spoke of how to solve the OIB based on that Law, and you were, since 1 September 2014, so this Law was suspended from application, and you were also in the Government that had not solved anything compared to adopted children, or before 2003 and others. So the debate, I very, very rarely use those sentences, who was in which government and who did what or didn't do it. Let's admit that we have a problem and try to solve the problem we have, not prove who was better and who was in which government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82129	Thank you very much, thank you very much. You can continue for coffee after the interview, if you have something else to say because the debate is closed, and tomorrow at 09:30, the first vote at 09:30, the vote, and then the Attorney General's report, actually the Ombudsman for people with disabilities for 2017. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session interrupted at 18.13 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82130	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Personal Identification Number, First Reading, P.Z. No. 310th is proposed by the club of representatives of GLAS, HSU and the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Parliamentary Working Authorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: no proposal for a Law supplementing the Personal Identification Number Act is adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 72 for, 3 abstentions, 38 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. That's what we came to the end of today's vote. Just one notice, please representatives and MPs, to remove the laptops and materials from the Assembly by Friday 11 May so that the Assembly can prepare itself to hold a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee, the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative on Monday 14 May. That's it. Now we'll move to the agenda, we've got two hands in the air, there was a louder colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82131	Mr. President. According to the Rules of Procedure, the vote is scheduled for a pause to be the first day in the week when we work from 9.30 to 10.30 days remaining from 13.30 and on Fridays the voting field. Today we have a different situation, we have a vote, tomorrow we probably won't have a vote on how we're going to take a break on behalf of the representatives' clubs?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82132	If it were Friday then it would be as it says in the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me that today is not Friday but Thursday, so we will do as it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82133	I asked you to answer me when then it will be if there is no vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82134	It'll be in one hour as scheduled when there's no vote. So today's debate at one o'clock and tomorrow at one o'clock. In the event that the debate ends early then, immediately after the debate, there will be free speech, so we will not wait if we finish at 11 to 1 but immediately after the hearing is completed there will be free speech. And colleague Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82135	Mr. President, I wanted to ask the same question. namely, how we saw this calendar because of the health bulletin or the physiological needs of the parliamentary majority has disrupted our traditional vote rate on Fridays, and we've written our Rules of Procedure as if it were Fridays. So I would pray that it doesn't have to now, to define what happens if the vote is the first day of the week, if the vote is the last day of the week, what is Friday when there's no vote and then we define it in the sense that everyone knows.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-09-0.u82136	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Just for a second, this is quite an important intervention, I would ask you this, so all that is possible is not clear I will suggest that a question be asked to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to be discussed there so that we can possibly interpret these ambiguities in one way or another clearly defined by the decision and the credible interpretation of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with Article 226(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, shall apply. Rules of Procedure, I'm going Here you go.
