ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90709	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. Before we start just a notice about the dynamics of work. So on Friday, they would vote 9:30 this time, and then there would be club attitudes, free speech, and then they would discuss the remaining 3 points planned for Friday's debate. So tomorrow is normal, Friday at 9.30 a.m. vote, free speech and a debate on the 3 points we planned for Friday. We now proceed with the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Space Agency on space cooperation for peace-making purposes, second reading, P.Z. No. 372; Proposer of the Act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 207a of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Article 207a of the Rules of Procedure provides that the laws to be adopted in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia are to be adopted as a rule in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure, that's for sure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education of Science and Culture. I would now ask for an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant's representative, i.e. on behalf of the applicant. With us, Branka Ramljak is a state secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90710	Good morning, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. In front of you is a draft of the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Space Agency on Space Cooperation for Peacekeeping purposes. The proposed law actually confirms this agreement which was signed in Zagreb on 19 February 2018. This Agreement in question lays down a legal framework for cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the European Space Agency in the field of space exploration and peaceful use and provides for conditions for the implementation of projects of mutual interest. Networking Croatian science and economy into highly developed world circles is a prerequisite for a stronger development of the research, innovation and economic potential of the Republic of Croatia. Space research is areas where they seek to network Croatian science and economy at international level and in this sense formal co-operation with the European Space Agency is inevitable. The objective agreement will allow for a three-stage level of cooperation, i.e. that agreement regulates co-operation through three phases. In the first phase, which includes exchange of information, exchange of scientists, scholarships, organisation of scientific activities, conferences, promotion of educational activities and sciences and technology of the universe, providing expert opinions and assistance in the management of space projects, access to the most modern scientific research infrastructure, and the use of assistance from the European Space Agency in drawing up a national space strategy. The agreement will open new opportunities for Croatian economic operators. In the second stage of co-operation in which countries are based on the Agreement on the European State, state participants pay a fixed membership fee of EUR 1 million per year. In the third stage of cooperation in which countries enter the basis of the State Membership Agreement, they shall become full members of the European Space Agency and shall be obliged to pay the membership fee to be determined on the basis of the social gross product. Full-fledged members shall be open to the possibility of participating in mandatory, optional programmes and industrial activities, optimising the return of funds invested. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90711	We have one replica, dear colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90712	Dear Secretary of State, of course I support this bill's proposal, but I'm sorry not to worry about what I'm going to tell the actors in this field who are relevant today and this is no longer the European Space Agency, these are today private space X, blue origin, Boeing, who are today the ones leading this field. And I think the Croatian state should open the door to them. The European Space Agency today has extremely modest work on this field. I'd even say that in one regression, the Ariane rocket almost doesn't fly anymore, and just the privates, I've listed them who they are, they're running a circuit in this field today, which is extremely pulsating. So here's if there's an opportunity through your ministry to contact them or some others to open the doors of Croatia to this, means to the privates today that launch annually, here from next year SpaceX to launch about 40 flights of commercial each type of research. It would be much better to put money or effort into this than to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90713	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90714	Thank you very much for the proposal, Mr. Representative. Let me just say about the European Space Agency. As early as 2016, a plan for scientific research infrastructure was adopted, a development plan for the scientific research infrastructure confirmed by the European Commission, and then, according to space policies, this was also one of the parts of that package that we needed to achieve. In any case, your proposal is good and we also have a commission that deals with these strategic issues and we will consider that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90715	Thank you, too. Now I'm gonna have the committee's reporters take the floor if they want. No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. The first in line is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Mato Cičak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90716	I would like to thank the President, my dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government and the European Space Agency on Space Cooperation for Peacekeeping purposes which the Republic of Croatia enters into the first pillar of cooperation with the European Space Agency. By including the Republic of Croatia in the work of the European Space Agency, our scientists and engineers will provide numerous benefits such as scholarships for additional education and training, exchange of experts, reflection of symposiums and conferences, promotion of products and services developed under the European Space Agency programme. This agreement allows our students from primary and secondary schools, students and trainees to acquire new knowledge, skills and competences through competitions and workshops at the European Space Agency. In addition to this scientific, our long-term interest in cooperation with the European Space Agency is the economic one because as much as 90% of the space agency budget is foreseen for contracts with the European industry, it is important for our public to know that it was 5.75 billion euros for 2017. By entering the first pillar of this European Space Agency membership, we are obliged to link our science and industry even more intensively. We must enable our companies and highly educated institutions to develop their ideas and projects and participate in international projects in the development of high-tech solutions for peaceful purposes. I note that we should follow examples of good practice from other EU members, members of the European Space Agency, learn from their experience so that we can make the most of what this association provides. Finally, the foundation of all of this will be supported by this Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government and the European Space Agency on Space Cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90717	Here you go, comrade Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90718	Your Honor. Since the topic is space co-operation, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club. According to data from the entrepreneurship development strategy in the Republic of Croatia by 2020, the public sector dominates investment in research and development in Croatia. The high school institutions and government bodies together account for 55.8% of total R & D investment unlike the EU in which the public research sector on average accounts for 37.5% of total R & D investments. Statistics suggest that the R & D separation measured in the share of GDP in the Republic of Croatia was 0.79% in 2014, 0.85% in 2015 and 0.84 in 2016. The comparisons work, Slovenia for research and development in 2016 singled out 2% while the goal of the Republic of Croatia is only 1.4% in 2020. Germany 2.94%, Denmark 2.87 or Finland 2.75%, should not speak. So according to EUROSTAT data, looking at the countries in which Croatia should be compared, Croatia singled out only 340m euros from all sources of research and development in 2014 while Slovakia singled out 670m, Slovenia 890 and Hungary as many as 1.4 billion euros. So we set our goals simply so low that we don't have to be surprised at the bus leaving, and since this is the first item of the agenda, I wouldn't be surprised because the prime minister keeps saying that honey and milk flow in Croatia, that he will soon announce a space expedition to Mars. So it's a Croatian space program.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90719	Here's a break for the MOST club to consult on space cooperation, please. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The second is the club of representatives of GLAS and HSU, respected counterpart Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90721	I thank Mr. President of the Parliament. The proposal we have ahead of us is a warm greeting from the GLAS and HSU Club. With a note, of course, that Croatia is unfortunately late. It is late compared to its possibilities because the first contacts occurred only in 2014 between the Republic of Croatia and our Government and the European Space Agency, and here, it took 4 years to reach the level of the proposed agreement. In any case, it is one of the most successful European agencies. It is not an EU agency, it is an international organisation of public-private character, 22 are member states and has huge potential, experience and I would say, technological capital with which few people can measure in the world. Three are key players, of course. The fourth appears, with the United States, Russia, the European Space Agency, of course, the fourth China appears and these are 4 relevant players in this field. The general public recognises the activities of the European Space Agency mainly through the Ariane programme mentioned by counterpart Zekanovic, where space vehicles that do not carry human crews have developed in 5 generations. For this, the European Space Agency has special contracts with Sputnik, or with the Russian Space Agency, and we all know or remember the launch of Ariana mainly from France, Guyana where the great space centre is because the activities of the European Space Agency carry four national space agencies, primarily French, British, Italian and German. Of course, from our perspective of a small country of low technological development, capacity and interest in opportunities in the space framework that comes down to our astrophysicists and popular methods of approaching science to children, primarily thanks to gentlemen like Korad Korlavić and others who do so. Maybe from that perspective, this doesn't seem to be something that could be of great benefit to us. But on the other hand, we need to know that this first pillar opens up opportunities for the Republic of Croatia as a country that has observer status to participate in a whole series of very important projects that are mostly scientific and technological character within five years. What is the greatest benefit for us is certainly the possibility of participating in educational and scientific projects, and that is something that every national economy needs because the scientific potential and technological potential, primarily in modern times, is developed right in the space that deals with the exploration of the universe and I would say, is all or I would say, most of the technological innovations and breakthroughs in new spaces that can benefit all those who pay attention to their own technological and scientific development. Unfortunately, Croatia has so far not been classified among countries that invest a lot in research science and that is a big problem. It is a big problem because it is already affecting the quality of the national economy in the medium term, its pro-pulsibility, so if you want the development possibilities and the economic model of development that we have, it is also evident that the lack of investment in innovation, in new technologies and in science is one of the key problems that has brought us to a very low level and that we rightly criticise today as a spent model which has actually made it possible for us to have one very ugly thing, which is that we have been among all EU Member States since 1989 or, if you will, we can also decade later, so since 1999, that we have achieved the least possible economic growth. The analysis of those who are more successful than us suggests that they played a crucial role in the overall structure of those factors affecting their social and economic growth in innovation science investment. It's actually the creation of an open economy that's based, based on new technological steps, new industries, technological innovations, and we're unfortunately very, very lagging behind. Compared to some previous times, when the large industrial conglomerates that existed in the Republic of Croatia had highly developed innovation and research centres. Let's just remember Pliva Research Center. In another industry than those that are close to this topic here, but certainly we can talk about big industries like Rada Končar and others who had research teams that could cope with the demands of technological development of their age without any problems, shoulder to shoulder with many other large companies. Today we heard the thesis that we should turn to private investors in scientific technological development and in terms of space co-operation. Of course, it is true, but unfortunately from us it is a few light years away and the fact that the Republic of Croatia enters into a special relationship with the European Space Agency that cooperates very much with private... In fact, it enables us to take part in this story and to learn from it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are not many companies in the Republic of Croatia that are capacitated on the one hand and interested on the other hand to participate at the highest possible level. And so I say this first step, the first pillar that will last for 5 years will allow us the best possible benefit, so scientific research, learning, scholarships, integration. This is a 22-nation agency, so not all EU member states are inside and there are several non-EU countries that are also in this agency. The issue of the future participation of the British Space Agency and the UK in the light of Brexit is being raised. So it is a very structured organisation that now raises the question whether it is good to allow the UK to continue to draw all benefits from the work of the European Space Agency since it is coming out of the EU. But the fact that the EU has special contracts and that it is very concerned that the European Space Agency is making progress because it highly appreciates its work and success, says that this issue is of exceptional importance for the future of the EU in terms of scientific, technological development, innovation, the creation of a new age economy, the creation of open horizons, scientific popular work, too, because their children also need education of this type in order to enter a world of open scientific space as soon as possible, a space of facts and not a space of dogma. In this sense, we welcome this proposal, we will vote for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the competent ministry to approach this agreement on behalf of Croatia, so that it will also receive the Croatian Parliament's approval and, in the hope of course, that our science will also get more wind in its sails, that populist and unknown approaches in this regard will be made marginal because if we allow a quality level of cooperation, proponents of ridiculous theories such as the Earth is a flat plate, there will be more and more on the apparatus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90722	We're going to the next club, the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90723	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Absolutely SDP's Club welcomes this agreement, we will support it more as colleagues and colleagues of Croats have already been in space. I think you've often heard the expression "did you fall from Mars"? So some of them were obviously on Mars. And logically, since Mars has no living conditions, the HDZ has been in power for a long time. But let's get back to this before we do. We think it's an extremely important member of the Peace Use Committee, it was a past state, we haven't, we think it's an extremely important resource because of a series of reasons the speaker spoke of before me and which I'll look back on later. But here I also want to commend the fact that we recently signed an agreement with the Spanish Ministry of Science on scientific cooperation in the field of fusion. So, the Spanish recognized our scientists and our science that they had extraordinary results as far as this matter is concerned, recognized that they could benefit from this cooperation, and I'm sorry that we talk a little bit about how much our science has come up with some trends in the world and how little we really point out what we're good at. We are certainly good at this, and I think that in cooperation with Spain and not only Spain but also with other EU countries, other countries that are within this project, we can get for our science, and then for the economy very much. But it is also important, colleagues and colleagues, that we stick to the deadlines that we ourselves have set in this agreement. So, it is irrational to expect that we will have a space research agency or a space agency but a space office within 2 years, I think it is necessary to establish this and that it is necessary in this office and in all the bodies that will come from behind it to really sit professional people, people who are dealing with science, who are dealing with related scientific branches and who can shed light on our face both as a state and our sciences. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Croatian scientific community is already in progress as far as space exploration is concerned and has gathered in the Adriatic Aerospace Association of the so-called. A3 and be our scientific community but also the few high-tech companies we have. They're already preparing for jobs in this sector, and in this way, in fact, so joining this agreement actually opens the door for our companies, our scientists to participate even more actively and more proactively in these flows. I also want to draw attention to the fact that association A3 is already working on the project of the first Croatian satellite, that counterpart Bakic and his Croatian makers are also doing excellent work, I think we can only give this a formal framework. Also when we talk about the space industry, we are talking about a multimillion-dollar industry where certain and some of our industries can find their niche, here I am talking primarily about nutrition, dehydrated products used during an expedition to space and so on, but also that our scientific and educational institutions like colleges, electrotechnical colleges, science and sciences, etc. must profit from the exchanges of students from this sector, by attracting world voice scientists from this field in Croatia and so on. We have so far had a whole series, which is formal, which is informal associations like this A3 or World Space Week Association, it's the UN World Space Week Agency, which is working to popularise this science that brings people who were in space in Croatia, etc., but we think it is extremely important that you take this and the formal framework. So, absolute support for this agreement and hopefully, as I said, we'll respect the deadlines we set ourselves, we'll follow it. Until then, absolute support for the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90724	We're going to the next club. It's an HNS club and a respected colleague of Christmas Macar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State with an associate. Here we heard that these negotiations began in 2014 and it would be good if they had been completed before and had been signed before. However, it is a good thing that Minister Blaženka Divjak and Head of the European Space Agency's International Cooperation Office did so this year. It also speaks of the importance that the signing was also attended by an HGK representative because it is precisely our businessmen who have shown great interest in this topic, although perhaps it is in public because of the title itself that seems a little unusual, to say the least. The agreement itself will speed up the networking of Croatian scientists and economies in Europe, the development of an area from meteorology and environmental protection to satellite navigation and robotics. It may be as signifying as the Minister Divjak said that the agreement itself was signed on the day of the birth of Nikola Copernicus and that it would help to maybe be a Copernicus turnaround in relation to science and the economy for which we now know what it looks like. Membership in the European Space Agency enables our scientists and engineers to benefit from numerous benefits such as scholarships for additional education and training, exchange of experts, promotion of products and services developed under the Agency's programme, promotion of educational activities and sciences and technology of the universe. In addition to this scientific, the long-term interest of Croatia in cooperation with the European Space Agency is also economic, which I was already talking about. Thus, companies based in the Republic of Croatia from 2023 will for the first time be given the opportunity to report to tender for the delivery of equipment for future missions by the European Space Agency. This is of course a great step and support and rock area. This agreement is an opportunity for stronger development in this area because the European Space Agency is achieving 90% of the contracts with European companies. There are 550 suppliers from 24 countries in the chain, and the interest in co-operation has already been shown by many Croatian companies. Some 2200 employees from all Member States work for the European Space Agency. They include scientists, engineers, IT experts and administrative staff. The Agency's budget for 2017 is also significant. It was 5.75 billion euros. The ESA invests in each Member State through industrial contracts for space programmes. The ESA Member States shall compete through the competition for activities involving the production of special materials for satellites, clothing, electronics, robotic hands, telecommunications equipment, software and other things. And that's why we think this is very important, and our club, of course, supports the adoption, supports the confirmation of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90726	Thank you, too. We're going to an individual debate now. Dear colleague Zekanovic signed up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90727	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state. I'm glad we have this topic today at the debate at the Croatian Parliament. I wish we had these topics a little bit more and more, and I'm sorry this one didn't cause any greater interest. So when I look at it, how long has it been? More than half a century actually started humanity with space explorations, and that these topics today are no longer popular, interesting to one general population and that in such a, meaning in parliaments, in such homes almost doesn't discuss it, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but here, I believe that this particular topic will mean one important step in every sense qualitative for all of humanity, and I will also say of course for our country. When we talk about the universe in 1957, the first satellite Sputnik was launched, the Russians launched it. A few years after that means, in 1969 we have the Apollo program, we have the first time people are on the moon. After that, in 1977, we have those very famous Voyager I and Voyager II missions that are still active, and spaceships are still traveling through space. But since then we have one actually, one stagnation. Unfortunately, I'll say it. We had a Space Shuttle program, I speak as a humanity that doesn't exist today, we had just before mentioned the Ariane program that stagnates, which is almost not working, and we're just signing a contract with the European Space Agency that uses this particular rocket. India and China got involved in that race, but I'm going to say one way where I don't see any great ambition. There's always some announcements, but there's actually a stagnation. But we have some bright shifts that aren't from agencies like the one we're signing a contract with, which are private initiatives. And that's now one change in the last 10 years where something in this field of space exploration or astronauts, in particular, is changing. I would've singled out a few of those key players in that field anyway. I mentioned Space X earlier, as we would say in Croatia,... , then Blue Origin,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in recent times, even Boeing has been involved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about companies that work and commercial flights, but also research flights. The most famous Falcon One rocket, but here's the newest time, and this Big Falcon rocket that's supposed to go all the way to Mars. There, all those who follow it rejoice and look forward to the launch and those missiles. What many may not know, Mr. President, would you tell your colleague Maras to be a little quieter? I know he's interested in some other topics, but maybe he can learn something. [[Intruder Jandroković: Please colleagues, I agree.]] Also a colleague of Whitey's, too, a little to follow. [[/Intruder Jandrokovic: Well, well, I call on everyone to be quieter because there are plenty of marbles so please let my colleague Zekanovic speak. Here you go.]] Here's to those who don't know, fellow Maras when people talk about space research, they're mostly wondering what it's all about. You're probably wondering what it's for because you're dealing with some of these things, this is not so clear to you. Like what? One teflon material, we wouldn't have it today if it hadn't been for space exploration, so it wouldn't have been there. Many diseases are being tested today at the international space station International Space Station and we have huge shifts in that field as well. And here it is, I believe that this time, in fact, humanity in general, and also our fellow Americans who follow or don't follow this will still allow one prosperity in a long period of time. What I would say here, here it is very important that Croatia is more actively involved in the astronaut programme, or that its people here in Croatia try to engage in visiting the International Space Station that still exists, unfortunately yet the Croats have not been, yet the Croats have not been, and it would be very nice to have it happen. Because if a Croatian visited the International Space Station, that is, if we had astronauts from Croatia to make a significant contribution to one atmosphere, the scientific atmosphere in the Republic of Croatia. Here, here, here colleagues have mentioned Mars as such, is, right, Mars is actually the next space object, that is, the planet people intend to visit, the homos to visit, but today it's just not going right. Now we have the last program, curiosity means who launched it, who launched the American Space Agency, but all together doesn't really go in the steps that should. In any case, I support this bill and expect Croatia to become more actively involved in the space programme in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90728	We have two replicas, first in line, dear fellow Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Zekanovic, I'm very glad you're interested in the space program and Croatian association with the European Space Agency, and I think that's very good. In particular, I am personally pleased that this process and membership are both this and some other associations launched while I was actually in charge of it right in the ministry, so I'm glad that, here comes my own realization. What's particularly important in this part is what you mentioned, it's important science for everyday life. And there are particularly important I think these STEM sciences, so-called. Science technology engineering etc. and that is where Croatia certainly puts an ever-increasing emphasis. However, what I also think should not be ignored by social humanities, I think that they are very important not only for teflon and the like, but also for some things as abstract and as protecting national identity, national culture, which is something that I think we need in the 21st century. I think that we should continue to strengthen this, and that through the new legislative proposals being prepared at the ministry, we do not need to put social humanities back on some kind of margin. And I hope it doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90730	Replication response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90731	Of course, fellow Sokol, you know for yourself that as far as I'm concerned, I'm always in favor of strengthening that value system, for strengthening socially humanistic sciences definitely. But this is the same thing that is unfortunately neglected in Croatian society, here I am glad that something is moving a little bit although shy but these two things are not in opposition, they are actually complementary and I am sure that any society, including Croatian society, can develop these two sciences in parallel and that they must certainly be complemented and complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90732	Now let's go to another replica, dear fellow Whitey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90733	Dear President of the Parliament. Dear and esteemed colleague Zekanovic, I would like to congratulate you on two things, first that within a month you accepted the helicentric system as such, so you are talking about science unlike what you said and what attitudes you represented about a month ago that were diametrically opposed to that, so obviously it is possible to evolve in a very short period of time and I congratulate you on that. The country is therefore not a flat point, yet despite the fact that there is a deeper universe, etc., and the other thing I want to congratulate you on is that you noticed me because I've had a feeling since you've been passing by me for a year as well as a Turkish cemetery, so now you've noticed me so obviously you don't have any more problems with your eyes, so I congratulate you and I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90734	Would you like to respond to the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90735	Comrade Beljak, you are if you don't know my colleague's geographer, so you know very well that I know everything you know, that unlike you who may still be a member of the one, or you support the geocentric theory, the heliocentric theory is very well known to me. I think your facilities and remarks are very groundbreaking. I was in your Samobor yesterday, and I'm glad I have an alarm in my car.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90736	Okay. Now I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Space Agency on space cooperation for peace-making purposes, second reading, P.Z. No. 372, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Space Agency on Space Cooperation for Peacekeeping purposes. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 98 votes for and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Space Agency on space co-operation for peaceful purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90739	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives. I warmly welcome you in front of the Ministry of Tourism and today we will present a draft Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity. The Household Activity Act regulates the methods and conditions under which legal and natural persons can carry out catering activities. We estimate that the applicable law in some parts is unarranged, i.e. by limiting the development of hospitality and competitiveness of Croatian tourism, so I would now present to you some papers, amendments that we bring to this Law. First, the harmonisation of standards of facilities for private owners, natural persons who have come up with the authorisation solution for the provision of catering services in the household until 1 September 2007 or in accordance with the then applicable rules on the classification and categorisation of facilities in which catering services are provided in the household. The harmonisation of standards is prescribed as an option, and those who do not submit a request for harmonisation will be able to continue to provide services without the right to use star category labels. So, so far, we have had a situation in private accommodation that we have categorized with three different regulations and we have also had a situation that for one large part of the accommodation facilities of private accommodation in the Republic of Croatia no one in the view of the competent authorities has entered the last 20 or 30 years. So, we've decided that all those who are categorized by 2007 have to go through this one process of harmonisation and retegorization of standards because we can't be, we can't be brought into a situation that we currently have certain catering facilities that have the same standard or the same star, but they don't have the same standard, the same quality of service. So this is something that was necessary to do. As far as the 2007 rule is concerned, it's not more restrictive than that old square rule, and that's something we've been communicating a lot about. On the contrary, the square, the surface of the module and the room is even smaller. But I'm talking about some broader spectrum of standards that needed to be brought into line. The coordination procedures are projected to be realised according to certain dynamics over several years. It means two years from the entry into force of this Act, if the decision and approval came to date by 2000, three years for those who were categorized from 2001 to 2004 and four years after the entry into force of this Act if the decision came after 31 December 2004. In addition to the part relating to private owners, the paper in the Law also provides for the possibility of carrying out catering activities in addition to special hospitals and hospitals and other health institutions, trade societies for the performance of health activities and healthcare professionals who carry out private practice on their own in accordance with specific rules governing health care. So, so far in the Republic of Croatia, we have had health tourism practically in one gray zone, and now for the first time in 20 and more years we are in a situation that we will have fully regulated legislation in health tourism in the Republic of Croatia. At the beginning of this year we adopted the Law on the provision of services in tourism where we put the definition of health tourism. And what does that mean? Also now, in this Law on Food Activity, we provide the possibility of providing catering services to health care centres, hospitals and health institutions and those who perform private health practice on their own, and also in this year is planned and, as you know, changes to the Law on Health Care where the Ministry of Tourism is also introduced and regulated by health tourism, so that during this year we will finally have health tourism fully regulated after 20 and a few years, and this is very important to us because health tourism is one of the specific forms of tourism defined strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia with which we are significantly developing all year long tourism and, more importantly, we are developing the continent. In this Regulation, one newspaper is also the editing of new types of household and OPG facilities, which is a Robinson accommodation facility, as well as the regulation of specific standards for household and OPG facilities. As we know, the trend in tourism is changing significantly, and world trends are changing significantly. I'm sure you've already had the chance to hear and see with us that these glampins and different types of camping happen. We have decided that, at the level of the Ministry of Tourism through this Regulation or through these amendments and additions to the Law, we must make it possible to define certain specific types or certain specific standards for objects, if necessary, and this Robinson tourism as such is extremely important because trends in world tourism are also life in nature, conservation of nature and this Robinson tourism and accommodation has somehow the least impact on nature, and one is essentially a whole new form of tourist offer that is now taking place more and more and more in the world, and therefore we are adapting our law to adequately offer services in that part. The following newspaper is again related, of course, to these private tenants we have already discussed, which is that with the accommodation service private tenants will be able to provide a pension service or half board if they are registered as a company or craftsman. And what exactly is this about? So, according to this Act and the rules that go with it, food and drink services are always subject to certain minimum technical conditions in the form of equipment in which food and drink preparation services are provided, to certain basic technical conditions relating to food safety, to the storage of food, which are related to those who prepare this food to have some basic sanitary conditions, to have a hygiene minimum, and thus to such minimum standards are present in all forms of catering facilities, so on health care, diners, fast food, restaurant, taverns, etc. So they all have, no matter how simple this type of catering facility is, they all have some kind of minimum standards, that private tenants don't have and they haven't had so far. Since we have already crossed the number of 100,000 private owners, we want to make sure that these private tenants, who provide a pension and full pension service, meet these minimum technical conditions, and of course all in order to protect our guests, and protect consumers, because we must not be put into a situation, that we have one form of accommodation or catering facility that is completely unregulated and has no obligation in relation to all others that are regular. We also regulated the accommodation of seasonal and field workers in the bill for the purpose of doing jobs and we defined for this type of accommodation of seasonal and field workers, that I do not consider myself to be a catering activity, that was something that was very important for the catering facilities that accommodated my own employees. Also something that we have regulated in this law, which is extremely important for private owners and the Ministry of Tourism and of course for the Ministry of Finance, means, as you know, today in the world there are very popular platforms on which to rent private accommodation sales, of course, and all other forms of accommodation. And like the booking com,... and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, so far, our observable tenants were not obliged to publish their tax number on these pages, i.e. they were not obliged to communicate these things. This makes it difficult to control these private tenants. So now, in this law, we have made a commitment to private renters, that wherever they advertise on these platforms they must have their tax number, and of course all of this will help our Ministry of Finance, so that they can control and control their traffic much easier. This is something that is very important to us, because, when we look at examples, let's say, our competing countries, such as France, Portugal or Spain, they went into much more restrictive models about it. For now, we have just introduced this obligation, with the plan for this year's autumn going into urgent amendments and additions to the tourism service law, where we will legally commit all major platforms, and large systems, operating outside the Republic of Croatia, that they also have obligations to publish all tax numbers, all advertisers on their portals. The next thing that we have changed in this law, we at the Ministry of Tourism, are extremely important, and this is about the introduction of mitigation procedures by tourist inspectors to service providers, perpetrators of offences, application of the principle of opportunity, i.e., regulation of the possibility of removing irregularities and deficiencies identified by inspectional attitude without punishment. Why is that so important to us? In the Ministry of Tourism, this is already two laws, where we change these things in terms of inspection, and we will do so in all the laws, which are in our jurisdiction, the Ministry of Tourism, want to build a partnership relationship with entrepreneurship, crafts and economy, and we are very aware that they are very important to us, because they are the only ones who fill the state budget. And specifically in tourism, we have over 99% of all legal entities are either micro, small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen and so on, so that we want to build a partner relationship with them, in a way that our inspectors now have a legal foothold, when they go into surveillance, that for some minor offences and for some minor deficiencies they do not write penalties, but that they have an obligation to warn, give the caterers, an appropriate time limit for those irregularities to be removed and that it goes all together without punishment. It means that we create some kind of partnership and act in the light of the objective of preventing defects and irregularities, but without financial punishment. The consequences of law-making are expected to be to raise the quality of services and standards of household facilities, the equal position of the tenant and the host on the market, greater consumer protection, the extension of the tourist season and the higher income of the tenant, easier business of entrepreneurs, and all in order to develop and strengthen the overall competitiveness of Croatian tourism. Therefore, the proposal, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is to accept these amendments and to supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90740	Thank you. We've got eight replicas, and the first one's on the honorary fellow Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90741	Thank you, Mr. President, I welcome the Secretary of State with my associates, and I'm interested in whether this harmonisation of the standards of buildings and tenants will be successful in the proposed deadlines because there are estimated to be 12,000 such tenants. Secondly, whether it is possible for these tenants to comply with the standards and continue to sell further services. And the third positive consequences you expect from this cancellation and the possibility that the tenant, for the guest accommodation service, only give breakfast without board and half board. Whether this will affect significantly, how you see references and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90742	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90743	Thank you very much for asking. Agent, as far as these retegorizations and these facilities are concerned, we've made a very good timing plan in the form of coordination. You said rightly, the estimate is that these private tenants, which were categorized by 2007, are about 20,000. However, at the same time, we are sure to one great no. These private owners, through the years, have been simple, due to the need of the market and quality service, already made a certain part, refurbishing and editing of these accommodation facilities. So we don't really expect all 20,000 to have to do that. And we've made a plan, basically 2-4 years old, so we're the ones who are going by the time limits that are up to 2007 to 2000, and then 3 and then 4 years, so we're giving them a lot of time to be able to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90744	Thank you for your time, please take care of it, so in a second attempt you will answer, now it's up to your esteemed colleague Ante Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90745	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, assistant, counselor. In your presentation, you mentioned two special forms of tourism. It means health care and this Robinsonian which I think is good that it is mentioned and specified by these amendments and additions of the Law and are special because they can extend our season and that one form of tourist offer all year round, but I am interested not only and what is good, normally what you mentioned in these amendments and additions, but whether the Ministry is still planning some clean development activities of these two special forms of tourist offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90746	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90747	Yes, these other forms are very much prescribed by the Tourism Service Act, so we have defined many different forms of tourism. They are all already defined in this Act, in these amendments and additions we simply redefined these specific categories or redefined or introduced the one you mentioned, and that is exactly what Robinson tourism is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90748	Third replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90749	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Amendments and additions to this Law have caused great public interest. For the reason that it is almost 100,000 private owners, but the fact is that one part of the media in the amendment and addition of this Act actually talked about a new recategorization or the need to tear down certain rooms and walls, especially in the old city core. What to do in the old town centre of Split, Dubrovnik, Trogir or Hvar. So maybe this opportunity is actually to answer whether it's true and actually, and especially knowing that there's still a rule that allows everyone to have smaller rooms, gauge less rooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90750	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90751	Thanks for asking. Yeah, you said it right. Here, very briefly. So, as for the difference between the 1995 Regulation and the 2007 one, we in the 2007 Regulation's amendments did not make any increases in the standard of squares. On the contrary, we even cut some kind of module square. So, as such, I am not limited in this sense at all, and as far as the old city core is concerned, and this is a very good question, since our tourist structure and offer in our cities, there is an exception to the law very clearly listed for the old city cores, so we absolutely have no problem and no threat that this would be any problem in the old city cores.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90752	Now it's time for a respected colleague, Domagoj Mikulić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90753	I thank the President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. Certainly tourism or hospitality in tourism needs to be regulated and adapted to the legal framework. But I also think that we should keep in mind the specificity of all parts of our beautiful. So I would refer to the article. 39th century 4th where I am interested in planning whether an exemption is introduced for the required necessity that OPGs serve products that are indigenous to their end, given that coffee, water or beer cannot be expected for example to be indigenous, and they are certainly essential for this type of service... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90754	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90755	As far as the OPGs are concerned, it's a good thing you asked that question because there was some information in the public that is being placed that is incorrect. So, as far as the OPGs are concerned, they can still deal without any problem with the provision of food and food services, mostly with their own domestic products or products from neighbouring OPGs. In that part, absolutely nothing has changed. We need to make a very clear destination between private accommodations, OPGs, other catering facilities. They're all category for themselves. As far as the OPGs are concerned, they are defined separately under this Act and they have absolutely no limits. However, they can serve food and drink as it has been possible so far and of course, regarding some particularity of their end, the specificity of what they have and what they offer, so as far as they're concerned, we have absolutely no problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90756	Next up, it's classmate Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90757	The Honorable Chairman. Well, I'd like to say I personally believe in the free market. We say by this law, i.e. We make it impossible to provide half board and pension services in private accommodation will already be able to provide only breakfast. I think that decision is wrong, I think that if the tenants want to and the guests if they want to be allowed to be given that service. Why? Because it's small entities, it's a man who may rent one or two apartments and ultimately ends up talking about the quality of his service. Today we live in a digital age, we no longer live in a time of darkness, so that now people can't share their experiences. Everything is publicly available today, and now you're forcing these tenants to register some kind of catering activity, to meet God-knows-what conditions. I think it's just making their lives harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90758	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90759	Thank you very much for that question. Well, here's the thing. It is very important to highlight one fact, which is that private accommodation in the Republic of Croatia is one of our specialities and something that makes us very special and specific and something that gives our tourism a special competitiveness. The tourism ministry is, we have an opportunity given the number of private tenants to be either a major threat or a great opportunity. The tourism ministry has decided to be a great opportunity for us and all of these things we are doing are just heading towards them increasing the overall competitiveness of Croatian tourism. Private informers who have so far been able to worship their guests with a welcome meal or departure or something like that, will still be able to do so. But we're talking about those who deal in clean business. So, for those who charge, negotiate a package, arrangement practically a accommodation service with a pension or half board and it's logical to be in accordance with the Law like all other service providers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90760	Thank you. Comrade Pernar, do you think the Rules of Procedure have been injured? Can you explain it to us, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90761	I am offended by your finding that any part of our citizens who live fairly can be seen in them. Please just explain what you mean by that you can see threats in them, renters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90762	Comrade Pernar, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you're absolutely clear, and since when this institution abuses the injuries of the Rules of Procedure to get a warning, I give you a warning this time. So let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague of the Dark Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90763	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, you've said a lot in your presentation, and these amendments to the law speak of inspection, of the importance of inspection, of the fact that the inspection is not only punishable but that it has a truly educational character and that it is possible to adapt everything else. I, by the way, absolutely think that the inspection should be done and experienced, that it's not just someone who comes and punishes, but it's an opportunity to make it right and I have to be the educational part to see what it's about. However, in this context, I am interested in the fact that by the end of the year, the prime minister announced the reuniting of inspections, is this inspection going to remain within the tourism ministry or will it go back to that great state-level inspection? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90764	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90765	Thank you very much for asking. Otherwise, it is not the responsibility of this ministry but according to all that is available to us and according to the proposals of the laws that have already come out, which have been consulted etc., means the tourist inspection that is now operating at the Ministry of Tourism, if it goes to this new state inspectorate will have all the powers it has and now, with some greater powers since the division that has been made in the past, they have lost, for example, the ability to oversee unregistered customs activities. And in the future, the inspectorate should be able to control everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90766	Let's go to the last line, dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90767	Thank you very much. This law should be the one to encourage the sale of domestic products in catering is related to tourism, mainly in rural areas. However, when renting pensions and half-boards, you will bring that to these areas, e.g. The Dalmatian burns and the latrines, that a man shall not be allowed to roast the builders according to this law to his guests. You are here in essence, this law has only strengthened paperwork and basically you in this area are carrying out an anti-demographic measure instead of making it possible in these areas to sell food as easily as possible and rent half-boards and pensions in the background. This is our potential and it should be a demographic measure, and the sale of domestic indigenous products regardless of whether these rural households or guest boards or half boards... You here have only made essentially increased paperwork and made it impossible for guests of our domestics... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The builds are roasted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90768	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90769	On the contrary, it is therefore very important that these concepts that we discussed earlier be made clear, private accommodation, private renter and OPG. What you refer to in the most part is the OPGs, and in this law it's exactly what it's done. And as for private tenants who provide pension and half-board services, so if they have some of their products you're talking about, then definitely if they are an agricultural holding, then as such they should be registered, if they're registered as an OPG then in the form of this law, there's absolutely no interference that they provide pension and half-board services as we mentioned, and that's very important. And as for another good household, the opportunity to welcome your guests with some lunch or welcome dinner or something, of course our private tenants will always be able to do it without any problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90770	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. First of all, the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Anton Kleman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90771	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished state secretary, respected assistant minister, respected chief advisors. Here is the amendment and the addition of the law in the first reading and good that in the first reading given the great interest of our representatives and the public in particular professional and interested, I can say that indeed one large part of the public will be interested, given that, as you yourself said in the opening statement, over 100,000 renters are covered by this amendment and the addition of the law, and therefore it is logical that the public interest is great. Therefore, these basic issues that you have mentioned, which should be regulated by this law, is the harmonisation of standards of rental facilities that were categorized by 1 September 2007 with family rentals or facilities that were subsequently given categorisation and the assessment of the ministry is that not all of them are in the same market position or are all providing the same service in view of the categorisation that the ministry has given them. This is largely true, since the ministry was still in office while I was in office, it received large remarks from users of services, therefore private rentals, and where we detected that indeed three stars categorized somewhere in 2003 or 2000 were not in the same standard until with these stars that we categorized in 2011, for example. There are several reasons why this is so, you know that even now, and especially before leaving the wartime in the Republic of Croatia, in a worse standard in the Republic of Croatia, so even before we entered the EU, renting and now I say, I repeat, there was also a great opportunity for social inclusion to fill the budgets, to fill the household budgets and to make it easier to survive but it was not in any case determined for the tourist activity or for the catering activity. So even a large part of our owners did not adjust their services to certain expectations of the markets and expectations of the guests and we had big problems with that. And since we have a very large number of beds in private accommodation, so I'd say almost now, so over 70% of our beds are in private accommodation. So it's a very, very large number and we need to standard the offer so that we can perform quality on the market. I agree that we should let the market regulate our relations in itself, but since we are seeking a good service, one, given the size of our market and our offers we want to be excellent, we have shown that we can be in terms of narrowing the conditions for both hotels and other catering facilities and tourist facilities where we get good grades from competition and from the guests themselves. We think we need to get strength and ways to sort of balance the standard in the whole country. And I think this is a good measure that must be in this part of the first step towards moving therefore a service to get a good service in tourism so that it is not only a rental service, so it is not just a bed and breakfast as it is now proposed but also in the further development of this product to find motives and ways to get into these products that we now have in our rules and it is a diffuse hotel and small hotels and so on because they bring added value and quality in the market of visibility. So let this be the first step in this direction because then we will be able to say that we are really leading the tourism policy, where we will, so always in line with expectations and professions and expectations of the public. So I think this is a good measure, a first step of measure, but I also think that we should sort of shorten the time for all those who have to adapt so that it doesn't be on these three categories, let's be one medium, medium time, and let's give everyone a deadline to do it because this is how we're going to make the whole confusion, I think it's better when we have one, one time, one deadline than three deadlines. As for giving the possibility to carry out catering activities to special hospitals. Here, that's one contribution from the Ministry of Tourism to health tourism. Unfortunately, it is one step and the maximum that the Ministry of Tourism can provide in the formation of this tourist service, so to carry out catering activities in health institutions. Most of the work is at the Ministry of Health where they must agree or adopt certain legal solutions. And what the Ministry of Tourism could now do has done and opened up the possibility that these health institutions that were not covered by the previous law and can now register for this activity and thus open the possibility of developing this tourist product. I'd still like to highlight a few things about this law, I think it's eradicating the provision so that up to 15 people in the household, so in the household, not renting when in their own cottage or in a holiday house that's not registered are registered by owners and their immediate relatives, within 15 June to 15 September, to delete, I think it's bad. I think that provision should remain. You know that now this situation is so hard to control. However, if we adopt this provision, we will admit that the state is unable to control people who practically rent their apartments and holiday homes on black, I know that it is a great weight to invade their right of ownership, so privacy. However, we cannot set ourselves up in a way that the inspection can only look at those facilities where people are properly registered and where on black rentals are most abused is this provision from 15 June to 15 September where people are inside, spinning, spinning every 7 days, and we can't go in, we can't run away from responsibility, we need to strengthen those inspections on these facilities and in some way help those who regularly reported their activities to help them stop that black market. And if we get this out of that whole story, I think we've done a bad thing. I think that we should step up this in the criminal provisions of absolute punishment for such abuses and find a sharp measure, so that, in order to get them out of their heads and those who intend to deal with such abuse, they don't. If we don't admit we're simply going to run from responsibility, we're taking it out now, so let's make it any way we can, we can't let that happen. You know yourself that in the last 4.5 years since the legalization of objects has been very many foreigners using this provision I'll just remind you that over 70,000 objects have been legalized, of which half of them are foreign citizens. So, legalized who use that provision, and that's where they spin their business, and we're just saying, we're not gonna control them in that part. So, we need to find one measure to control, I'm aware of both the size and size, or how big a tourist inspection we want, that we have very few tourist inspectors on the ground, but we can also use customs and the Ministry of Finance and other inspections to help in this part and get things in order, because we can't let an institute of legalization that was well imagined turn out absolutely to our damage eventually through this provision of services in tourism. And the large, i.e., catering, and the vast majority of the facilities are just legalized on our coast, so we have to take care of it. As regards the tenant where the possibility of providing half boards and pensions has been abolished, this is somewhat understandable, given the large remarks and the customers themselves that their traffic is falling, and he might say to a large extent and not have the terms of the service providers themselves, therefore, what has been prescribed by HASAP and what is prescribed by our standards, which is prescribed by the Ministry of Tourism for the Hosts, must not be conditional upon that. However, we have a certain category of tenants who offer therefore, their large well-equipped, often those villas of the tourism ministry, I am sorry that it was abolished for pools to co-finance the pool. So, pool villas, these are people who are powerful, who can afford to stay in a high category who are not sorry to separate some of the money for 7-10 days and do not want to, for example, come from London or Amsterdam, Stockholm from large cities and do not want to go back to the cities themselves, again to catering facilities for lunch, dinner, etc. I think we should allow it to be arranged, regardless of whether they are registered, that it can be agreed on a service, which is in a way that with caterers who can provide catering services, that they can be delivered to holiday homes and that as such they do not commit a violation of this law, therefore, that they can fully use the entire board and thus satisfy their own desire or intention, so, guests, because the guest is always right, what we know to say, that they can get that freedom on the spot. Try to think about it from regulating it, so there's no manipulation again, all over that approach, but you'll see it right away, so it can be solved through the documentation between the tenant and the provision of the catering service, so it can be done. There would avoid a whole series of such remarks, so the caterer provides his service, the user uses it and what the wolf says is full and sheep in number. Try to think about it, I think it would settle a lot of doubts in that sense. In any case, we welcome this as a club, so easing the conduct of the tourism sectors, that is, we said it was always a tendency, it was supposed to be a tendency of all ministries. But I say and repeat again, for these if this provision remains, for 15 persons, there should be respect for this whole story and there is no birth here. As for these other changes that you have proposed through the law here, here, it seems to me, this solving of the problem of the accommodation of seasonal field workers, that it is a great thing, which is related to the amendment or addition of the laws that the Ministry of Finance has passed, which is that it is not taxed as a pay in nature by the cost of seasonal workers themselves, it is a good supplement and that's fine. So the obligation to highlight the tax number for advertising is also a very good measure, we are very much losing money through advertising, and I have to tell you that while I was at the Ministry we talked very much with the Ministry of Finance and Tax exactly, a very large drain of money goes right through advertising, for large advertisers, for large platforms, which we cannot control. But in any case, and in the first place, we will be able to renters, who are not our citizens, EU citizens, who are through the process of legalisation or the purchase of objects, advertise on black, rent and do unfair competition to us, therefore, here in Croatia, can identify and treat them. That I think is one of the better things about this bill. And so, here, in the reading process, we will support, as the HDZ Club, this law and I hope that you will respect the remarks that you consider to be quality and apply them in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90772	Thank you. Let's go to another Club of Representatives that's the Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Tomislav Sach, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90773	Thank you very much, Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state with associates, associates. The HNS Club considers this law to be good and in line with the tourism development strategy adopted in this House 2013 the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy 20:20. We think it is good that this law regulates the re-categorisation of apartments, so we have the information, which is a little alarming, that some of the apartments, some 20,000 of them were categorized only there because even under the rules of 2007 there is a need to equalise, uniform standards in the territory of Croatia and in the area of all the tenants, both those who have acquired all the categorization according to the rules at the time and according to the current rules. And what we think is good is that in principle such a thing is not put as a requirement, but as a voluntary one option for all those who want to keep all of this categorization or possibly improve if it simply means something to them. Therefore, no one will be forced into any additional investment if that tenant does not want or thinks that he is not entitled to do so on business. I think it's actually a question of categorization of private accommodation in some sense and outdated nowadays, most apartments are rented through digital platforms on which a product is actually advertised in a way that, where the user has seen directly what it is, looks at reviews, knows what it gets for his money. However, if we already have such a kind of categorization behind which the state stands, then it would be really desirable for three stars to mean the same and wherever they stand out in any part of Croatia, whenever they are acquired. Of course, as I said, the market is inexorable and the market will make its own, and every tenant will assess whether something like that is worth it or not. And I personally think that equating standards in this sense just as it is in... We are talking about hotel accommodation that is extremely important for Croatia's reputation as a tourist destination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think that says a lot about a tourist destination when you know as a guest when you say, I don't know, for example. For example, the four-star hotel what that, what standard implies, and so also in private accommodation, means that if it is handled by that termology, it means categorization that a certain categorization really means that. A certain standard. This law is also good because it has recognised some new forms of tourism that are taking bigger and bigger market shares, which are increasingly sought, therefore forms such as Robinson tourism, it is something that you really need to remember early today to even book such accommodation facilities, so they are very popular. And as he said, I think he said it was Mr. Secretary, it's kind of a trend where the guest best connects to nature, it's usually objects in some outcast locations that don't generally meet some standard criteria but by these other criteria that are very important to guests who want such objects right now and I would even say crucial. It is good that this law among other things has resolved one illogicalness which is that seasonal workers who come to work in tourism are that their accommodation of these same seasonal workers is not subject to the provisions of this law because we have come to a bit of an absurd situation to actually be paid to seasonal workers in tourism as if they were tourists. So that's the part that's been regulated. As for one of the points that is also important, which is changed and regulated by this law, which is limiting the possibility of providing pension services. That's one, so accommodation with breakfast, lunch and dinner, that's one potential, probably the only potentially controversial topic of this. The question of this law, at least as far as we're concerned at the club. On the one hand, an argument of a fair play can be accepted, so if restaurants, hotelers must meet certain criteria, quite high criteria and therefore kitchen equipment, equipment of the facility, adherence to certain hygiene and health standards so that it should apply to all others who provide the same or similar service because it simply leads to product collection. It's not the same when you respect all the conditions prescribed by the laws applicable to restaurants. So of course that end product can't be equal to cost, i.e. be as expensive as this product produced under conditions that are not subject to such strict regulation. This, however, puts two economic operators on the market on one side of the tenant who provides pension services and restaurants, or, say, a small hoteler in an unequal position. Now, we've been having a little talk on the board now that preceded this session of the Tourism Committee, we've talked a little bit about how many of these tenants are offering such a service in the first place. And from what I understand, it's not really a lot of them, and maybe it wouldn't be a bad thing to do, and at least from my experience as far as I know, it's what I've had the opportunity to see as a guest, it's something this old situation that's going to be quite difficult to adapt. But what's even more important than not knowing if they're going to see the bill, so these tenants, and which times is the configuration, let's say the terrain of some geographical assignments on our islands so that you simply in a very wide circle around such an object don't have restaurant type catering facilities. So I'm afraid that in some situations it will really create big problems for these tenants because they will have to explain to their guests that the next one, the first next restaurant, is quite far away and that they can't provide such services and I'm not sure that they'll either want to or eventually get there, now I have to admit that I haven't seen since the transitional and final provisions since exactly this ban on providing these pension services is applied. And maybe it wouldn't be bad, this is actually a sorry now, this is just the first reading, so this season it's definitely, here's my apology, this season is definitely not going to apply, and by next year it's probably going to decide how it's going to go on. He would once again point out that the need for the development of blue tourism is to increase standards in private accommodation as well. And we really warmly welcome this activity, that the standards of categorization will be raised and that it will be possible, therefore, that these stars, this categorization will indeed be leveled, in the whole of Croatia, to contribute to Croatia's seriousness, as a tourist destination. What is in the end and is in line, therefore, someone will now say, that this is some kind of pressure on private tenants, small tenants, but we, however, would say that it is not, and besides, in accordance with the strategy that was adopted in this House, in 2013, the goal is to increase the share of the accommodations in hotels, therefore, not necessarily in large... A chain of hotels, as well as small family hotels, for which there are credit lines and how much I understand existing credit lines and for editing existing apartments to get a higher category. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All this together raises the quality of Croatia, as a tourist destination and I think it is absolutely in everyone's interest, because such quality private accommodation will be more tempting for tourists to be used both in the pre-season and in the post-season. Because if it all comes down to one bed, closet, and that TV, if there's one, the guest in principle, then it only depends on whether it's a nice time or not. There is no need to stay in those accommodation units. So we can say hello anyway. That unification of practice, raising standards in some parts of the law would say that it's served, in some parts, is a little bit, let's say, looser. We hope so, i.e. I hope so, but I'm actually convinced that the ministry knows very well what it's doing, what it manages the capacities and why it's been changing certain provisions. And I don't think it's a bad idea to bring renters first with one warning, to move with more serious sanctions only later. And we hope that in practice, which is the most important practice, and not the theory, these changes were good and useful for the tenants, and this is much more important, and for the guests who will continue to return to us. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90774	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sauchi. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club esteemed colleague Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90775	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretary with associates, here we have before us the first reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act. These changes and additions also resulted from the fact that the attempt to regulate the problem in the tourism domain, i.e. catering. What you should always know is that in principle it is the history of a teacher of life and we must always watch small things that have happened historically. The development of tourism in our areas began in the 1970s. In the past century, because by passing the Adriatic Highway, which is somewhere in 1966, in '67. how in which parts of the open, open openness of the Adriatic Sea and accessible to the right of our coast to foreign tourists and in the desire that then a major economic crisis which was, then state, resolved actually made it possible for foreigners to come. The result was two facts. One fact that the project of the upper Adriatic was created was called the upper Adriatic, i.e. the northern and southern Adriatic Adriatic, the northern Adriatic was then treated somewhere to Zadar, and the southern Adriatic was from Zadar, and it included the coast of Montenegro, and also the coast of Albania was seen and there were funding and then the resources of the united nations and the capacities of these coasts were given up in relation to the number of towels that could be on the beaches. So according to the number of towels, which could have been on the beaches, the capacity, hotels and hotel accommodation worked. Hotel accommodation was built somewhere in the middle of it back in the '80s. Mr. last century, that's when big, say, on the North Adriatic came into existence... who unfortunately isn't in office today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is on the southern Adriatic, or about Dubrovnik and there in '71, '72. There were big moves of hotel accommodations, but parallel to that, in fact, in terms of economic resolution and then there was the departure of our fellow citizens who went to work in Germany, Germany was the main destination, it made it possible for people, to have their houses, which they had along the coast, to build, to work in them and to rent. And that's the consequence, so we're talking about the consequences of all this today. I won't talk about hotels, I won't talk about hotel accommodations, but really 70% of the capacity we offer today, it's the tenants and it's also passed its process. You remember well that story 2 sons the one who was worth getting land in the hinterland was engaged in agriculture, and the one who was less valuable had got a country where he couldn't deal with it, and then after a few years, it turned out that it was really the other way around, that this country, i.e., the property on that land could have been used well. It was the usual situation, that between the 2 tourist seasons, from one season to the next, and the tourist season was 15.7, 15.8, because it was about that part because we offered only the beach and the sun that one apartment had been built between one and the other, so he added three rooms, only that he could rent as much as possible next year. And now all that's actually coming, I'm not gonna say checkout because it's hard to say, but it's all got to be regulated. I agree that it is necessary to regulate plus of course that it is there at the end of the last century and that is the beginning of this at the time behind the formation of a new state in order to help and investment and everything else is going to be a major building of apartments. So, this construction of private tenants, they came to their capacity, they started building apartments. I worked there 15 years ago in Montenegro related to spatial planning and then the Montenegrins complained, says the keys to the apartments made in Montenegro are rented in Russia. Or what did they want to say? The Russians made an awful lot of apartments on the coast of Montenegro, and they rented it up where they are, so Montenegro said there was nothing, or that there was just a burden attached to the infrastructure. So now we have a few groups and a few problems. What this law should solve is one problem, so private tenants who have many, which should be regulated in a certain way and another topic is apartments that equally someone who bought an apartment uses it in their part of their annual vacation and does not. And now this whole thing needs to be looked at in the context of some other trends and other stories. Our tourism is no longer the sea. Our tourism isn't just lying on the beach, it's something else. Our tourism is now, when someone rents a house, wants to rent a house, wants to have all the benefits they can have, wants to have a pool, that house even more should not be by the sea is different but surely you in the ministry and others encounter the fact that when they want to rent a house, they rent a cook. So there's a chef, there's chefs on the market today, they're a free profession at all, and he cooks all over the houses, so to speak, and these are some new types of tourism. We too need to respond to these new types of tourism. And now in these amendments and additions to the law there are a few things that absolutely need to be supported, they have to be supported, one look 10 years ago we talked about what health tourism is, so, I remember well, there was one wish where there was a project of plastic surgery on one island, so plastic surgery in this world that we live in, it's a wave that comes from America, you're never thin enough, young enough and well-opered. So it's a kind of tourism where he wanted to, but then it was, at least 6 problems, anything and how. If these problems we have are solved by this amendment and by supplementing the law, then it's good, if not, to sit down with the Ministry of Health and see. That's what's on the market now. Someone wants to develop a destination, they will hire doctors who will work and perhaps the potential of a particular space and should not be lurked before that, and that is something to take care of. And we always have to make sure that we spread the offer, give as many opportunities as possible, give what we can because I regulate the market myself. That's what merchants say every commodity has customers. There's no merchandise when you come to the store and we're all surprised who buys it and then the merchant tells us every commodity has a buyer. When it comes to tourism, tourism is changing so quickly and all things change so quickly that the question is how much we can follow, but follow what is happening on the ground in a way that we are not actually a stepmother but that we are an associate of people who actually want to deal with it. Therefore, this part of health tourism, although it is in the way of solving, if not, is once again seated and seen in connection with Robinson tourism. So today we have tourists I have to admit, I stayed once upon sight, a man rents a house on the island and when he tells me how much he rents, I was convinced it was about the week, it was about the day. And it's great to rent and it's great that it can make so much money and it's great that there's people who are ready and let him rent half a year and it's actually good all year, and we need to encourage it, but we need to help him and we need to allow him to actually do it legally. Likewise, of course, what I think is extremely good in this law is related to the accommodation of seasonal or field workers. I well remember the pain we had when you need to in the sense of spatial planning a single tourist zone and the number of beds and then what it is, and you know that in the tourist zone that it is, you won't have workers because there's no place to go. So someone's gonna have to come work and then whether their beds, I'm telling you in terms of planning, here you're talking in terms of hospitality. Whether these beds in which workers enter the capacity, do not enter the capacity, whether it is plus or minus, therefore it should be taken into account. So if we want to develop tourism, we will have and there are no secrets anymore, look at this season, in this season you have at all an appeal of tourist workers who say we have no one to work with. There is not enough workforce in terms of auxiliary staff in the kitchen, in terms of waiters, in terms of, I don't know, cleaning lady, cleaning lady, so that provision is extremely good. There are two things that are controversial to us. One thing is these 15 people who are no longer in the law, and there we really appeal from the first and second readings to see the option in which this can be done, and this is half board or pension. Before that, I'll only ask one thing. So we, all the time when it comes to the OPG provision of Article 13, that is, the amendment of Article 39, we are dealing with 80 guests. We had these 80 guests when we defined so, when the definition of the PDO started, the protected coastal belt. Then we said it could be a hotel with 80 guests. Where did those 80 guests come from? How did we even get it in the legislation? Why isn't 70 or not 100, why is it 80 and why do we have a limit? Well, maybe in the closing word, the secretary of state will be able to explain it. I've asked everyone I've ever known to ask at the Ministry of Tourism, where you've introduced 80 guests into the provision. Where did you get that? Based on what? Which is why it's based, so maybe it gets one day and the answer why exactly 80. But get back to half board and board. If we want to solve something, if there's something wrong with us, let's not solve it with a new problem. We're thinking of giving the renters the opportunity, so the law says they can only have bed and breakfast, not half board and board that we won't solve the problem you have, we'll open up a new problem. We will open up the problem that it will continue to be, that people will do it in gray, that people will do it in secret, that they will not offer it but offer something else. Today we live in a real world where everyone who goes somewhere rents a room, apartment or anything else looks at the Internet, looks at how and what is offered, looks at how it is evaluated and based on it is decided to go. So it's decided, we live in real time where you can absolutely google to see what the environment of it looks like to you. So you have a situation where there's one, I know a tenant where someone started building in his neighborhood, building until when the law was a regulated unit of local self-government. It was all very peaceful during the tourist season. But the guests were canceling because they saw some work there. They didn't believe the work would be done. So, since we live in real time, since everything can be seen, we absolutely appreciate that a good provision is not where we renters tell now you're just going to have sleep and breakfast, you can't have a pension and half board anymore. If we know that 70% of the rent is private, then it's about the renters. We can come to the extent that there are those who offer half board or pension, and it is incomparable that it may be a little more detailed to regulate and leave that possibility, than not to have. You don't have that option, you know, as soon as someone tells you you can't do something, you're immediately suspicious of it, and that's where we're gonna put people in a position to keep offering it. But they'll make up what, how. I think it's incomparable to regulate it with the law. The GLAS and HSU club will support this in their first reading. However, we give ourselves that reserve, so we give a reservation relative to the half-board, or pension, and we give it in a reserve related to these 15 people. We expect that until the second reading this provision related to those 15 people and the way it is controlled and not controlled, as all our citizens are, and my parents there in the '70s last century made a cottage at sea and we, when we're all there family and my sister and my family and my mom, have one 13-14 of us and there's 4-5 cars parked out there because everyone gets their own car. Of course they don't control us because they know we're not dealing with it, but I wouldn't even have a problem with someone seeing 4 or 5 cars outside one cottage, of course they're suspicious even though all the home registration marks are looking at it. One time it would come, another time it would come and see that there was no problem. So we're making a reservation for the Final Proposal of the Law and I'm asking nicely for additional efforts regarding the situation, which is related to half board and pension. I think it's worth the extra effort to make, not define it like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90776	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. We're moving on to the next debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please welcome colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90777	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I must say that we are not satisfied with the proposed bill because it leads to further red tape of the system. In fact, so far, small tenants have been able to give their guests lunch and dinner with their guests, and under the new law they will no longer be able to do so unless they register the catering activity. If someone has one, two or two, three apartments, if he cooks lunch for himself, why not occasionally for a guest, when he has guests throughout the season or has no guests throughout the season. The thing is, to do the catering activity, you have to meet a whole set of conditions, and actually if you actually have to do a lot of paperwork, there's a lot of bureaucracy, there's a lot of money spent, etc. I'll say, I'll just read the message, or during the public debate, sent by the Croatian Rural Tourism Association, as the only association that brings together the provider of rural tourism services. It says, again and again, we point to the need for legislative definition of rural tourism. Given the lack of understanding of this term and then they further say the following: The answer of the Ministry of Tourism to our initiative on the need to extend the circle of rural tourism service providers that should be defined by the proposed amendments to the Law, we make it extremely unacceptable. A detailed preliminary analysis of all segments of such offer and their impact on the totality of Croatian tourism and economic development is needed. So now, what's this about? For example, someone who has a place in the country rents for example. or as the Buli MP in Zagora used to say, somewhere he rents an apartment, what this man now, he can't give him lunch or dinner, what madness, but watch how they explain it, how they explain the essence of things. So look, says the legislator that we introduced that ban on small tenants, to provide lunch and dinner, for God's sakes to protect the interests of the caterer. It's an official explanation. But you know what these little tenants say. They say the next thought, if you cared about the caterer, you wouldn't have raised the VAT from 13% to 25%. So the state, which brings this measure to their attention by saying that they care about the caterer, and how much they care about the caterer, has shown that it de facto doubled their VAT rate. That's how much the state cares about the caterer. There's this expression that they shed crocodile tears for the caterers, or else I'll just explain to you what it's about when a crocodile devours his victim tears his eyes but not out of grief, but a physiological process, and I believe he's happy when he devours his victim. So also the Ministry pours crocodile tears for the caterers and makes life difficult for small tenants, not because they care about either the caterer or the tenant, but for only one reason and only one reason, which is to make life difficult for a normal man, to simply find that network of arrests find a new way to make life harder for people and to actually paralyze someone else's work. Why? Because that little man who provides accommodation service in the apartment or whatever, he's actually gonna support someone half-tron of some of the ruling party's arrests. It all comes down to it. And that's why this decision to ban small tenants, to offer lunch or dinner to their guests, is actually an attack on people who work. People who live off their work, but the state doesn't care. The state takes enorms imposed on tenants in general. And for that reason, actually, these tenants, they have to share largely their profits with the state. And what the state gives them in return, nothing only makes life more difficult for them, raises taxes, expands the network of ears, signs harmful contracts and enters harmful contracts, like the one with LNG in Krk where a terminal is done that no one will need. He buys military planes for 3 billion kn, which are old iron, which no one will need, so we wouldn't complain to small tenants, that money, from taxes, really goes in the interest of a small man. It means they're going into the development of the entire state, helping to develop society. But unfortunately, paying taxes today in Croatia, you actually support one system, a system that parasitizes the work of honest people and is not fair. A system that is not democratic, that has no democratic procedures and principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90778	Dear colleague Pernar, just a moment, please, my colleagues from the HDZ Club would like to ask you nicely not to interrupt your colleague Pernar while he has a discussion. Thank you very much. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90779	I would like to say that the conduct of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, while discussing this topic, speaks all about their interest in this topic, i.e. in the interests of these small tenants. I can say that the Living Wall, the Secretary of State said that these tenants, as well as good and bad in the style of that thing as well as it could be something positive, and it could be a threat. We in the Living Wall see little tenants as no threat, as no evil. We do not think that a small group of people, who are the owners of the hotel, should be exploited by society as a whole, and that the rest of us should not be engaged in tourism, but I think vice versa, that we should encourage small tenants, etc. etc. I will give you another central problem of Croatian tourism, which is that we in Croatian hotels in the Adriatic have a labour deficit, and on the other hand, that our guests from Croatia are moving out. Imagine the paradoxical situation. So, Croatian citizens, instead of working in their own country, on jobs, where there is an objective demand for labour, they do not work there, they go to work outside and then drag the maids out of Egypt, guests from Serbia, i.e. waiters, etc. I don't mind a host from Serbia, but I find it insane that our own citizens are moving out of Croatia instead of working in Croatia, if there is a demand for their work. And then the question arises, why they move out and why they don't want to work in our hotels. The answer is that the state, as a legislator, must actually prescribe, that depending on the hotel's categorization, and depending on the hotel's position, they must raise the minimum wage in these hotels. It means that some waiter does not work for 4 or 5 or 6 thousand kuna, but for 8, 9 or 10 thousand kuna. So what we have today is that we have hotelers, which are actually not even from Croatia, who invest in the facility and then charge high prices, and domestic workers pay miserablely, and then of course, domestic workers won't be working for 300 thousand people for the last few years, 250 thousand minimally moved from Croatia. But our legislator, so this HDZ government didn't go after a team to stop the outflow of young people from the country. She didn't go after it to stop the drain of young people from the country, she didn't go after the gentlemen to say if you in Dubrovnik, in a 5-star hotel, you charge a thousand and a half kuna and you pay the maids 4 thousand kuna or 5 that's too little. She'll have to do 20 rooms at least eight o'clock. So she breaks down and breaks down there for a pay misery and then wonders people won't do that job. Well, of course it won't work when they're paid nothing. But it's your fault as legislators. You need to protect the workers, you need to tell a foreign employer we don't mind making money, but you have to pay your workers politely, not to bring people from Egypt to work here for misery, for peanuts, that's the whole story. And what you're doing for God's sake with the purpose of protecting the caterers, so you're actually making it impossible for people, because watch out here isn't about me being a private tenant, so I'm now doing the catering activity so I don't know how to open the terrace, so I'm letting go, I'm stealing the restaurant business. No, this is about you giving your guest a favor, not coming from the street for lunch, dinner or whatever. And I want to tell you how pathetic this bill really is, how miserable it is, how short-sighted it is and how much it actually showed no concern for people who deal with tourism. And she's the false concern she shows for the caterers by making her do it with the aim of protecting them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're going back to the beginning of the story that you care about the competitiveness of our caterers, if you could raise their VAT to 25%, that's the central question. And how much do you care about them? So I remember here in Parliament when I was saying don't pick up the VAT caterers, you all at HDZ said no matter what you're thinking, we'll double the VAT and you raised them from 13% to 25%. And now you're coming to us acting like we care about these caterers, we have to protect them, this, that. So who do you protect them from, ladies and gentlemen? So are those people a threat to the caterers a small tenant who, if he wants to give his guest lunch or dinner, is that a problem? Is that why the hospitality in Croatia is failing? And on the other hand, it's clear from the plane that in some places restaurants are too expensive. Well, that's what you've done, by increasing VAT, that it's too expensive, from all possible charges that the caterers have to pay. Instead of expanding the competition, instead of facilitating freedom, making the market more free, you further regulate it. You could have found a compromise proposal, you could have said if someone had 5 or more apartments that they rent and then these 5 apartments provide them lunch and dinner, let's say he hypothetically feeds a lot of people so let's let him register for catering. But you're a man who has one or two apartments that haven't been filled for sure for three quarters of the year. Imagine three-quarters of that man's apartment essentially doesn't rent at sea. He rents 3, 4 months, 4 months tops. And you impose on him an obligation to register a catering service. What kind of catering service, man? What more imposes? How many more people pay you for that? But of course I'm aware that my words will fall to deaf ears that you're simply not interested in what I'm telling you, and for that reason I can only tell you that we from the Living Wall will refuse this bill of yours unless you allow small tenants that without opening up catering activities to their guests, if both of them want to, they and their guests will provide half board services or full board services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90780	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90781	Thank you very much. Dear representatives of the ministry, here we are talking about a law that is very important. It is important from more aspects that, for hospitality, if we change the law we have our resources and our potentials and tourism is 20%, close to 20% of GDP, therefore we have our resources that is our sea, our beaches, our islands and our divorced shores but we have developed, but we also have potential in the back, which is food, food production. The key question arises is whether this law also makes it impossible for us to develop, mainly in rural areas, development of tourism, catering activities that are related to food production. As far as our sea is concerned, we still have clean seas, but we are still afraid to declare an exclusive economic belt for 15 years. No government, no council, no matter what for a year and a half, there is this proposal, and already 14, 15 years ago, Mr. Tonci Tadic, our former colleague, has proposed an exclusive economic belt. Now we are essentially questioning this law, and it is good that it goes into two readings, what with the OPGs in rural areas in the hinterland, a very important issue, a very one question where legislators should think about an area that is empty demographic and I think the tribal would not make it difficult, but also facilitate the activity and renting and activities of half boards and pensions in these areas. And in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, of course, when we talk about it. What are we talking about? If we're just charging the O.P.G.s that they have to pay the chambers, that they have to pay, why not allow them this activity? The needs are increased and are not just more beaches, coasts and apartmentisation as is happening now. in Makarska,... It is directly delegated from the Government to want to destroy nature, known to counterpart Bačić, he is down from that area,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With a spatial plan they want to destroy that nature that we have down there and where we can concreteize it and make big hotels so someone can have a monopoly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the ice is a huge problem. when we speak Dalmatian Zagora, flat wheels, Lika and here Gorski Kotar. I believe that this law only increases the administration, literally I'm a cartoon, not according to these laws, how much measure you're going to introduce, how much of it. for these areas should be a special law because they will not be allowed to bake one of their guests this way. I'd like you to think about this by the second reading that food producers and OPGs have a chance in these rural areas and renting and development. Today are such needs, the tourist is not just enough beach, they want to visit Dalmatian Zagora, we have something to show. Here in my Chetin area we have something to show for the entire Dalmatian mountain, but it becomes empty, people leave, fields aren't processed, they don't invest, why? Because this product cannot be placed because it is not competitive, it is not competitive because we have an import lobby that places its food at the time of the tourist season in our restaurants, and this profit could be multiple in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and in the survival of people in these areas, as well as the return of people to those areas to allow the OPGs through this law and through this law to see how both the tenants and the helpers can arrange their houses in those areas, to adapt them through easier procedures and incentives, and thus to have renters in these rural areas and certainly that this is the demand. I have data from people who are also with these agencies, here's the Sibenik-Knin County that it's a huge demand for people not to be on the coast, but to use apartments, houses private to use in the hinterland, it's simply so much demand that 50 times more of these facilities, only in the Sibenik-Kninian or Split-Dalmatia to be insufficient capacities. And certainly both food and people who would produce in this area so that it would be this blockage of the survival of these people in that area. We need to be aware, it's not just the sea our potential and everything that's up the coast anymore. Our potential is enormous in the back and cultural and historical and food, clean environment, clean nature, clean food, but we do not have the strength, not only through this law where we impose new additional documentation, bureaucracy so that people can rent their homes, their economies and food as pensions or half boards, but in these areas we are still strict about why, I don't know. But I'm asking you until the second reading, we'll also have amendments, on the second reading if you don't change, and we see in the counseling. We read here that there are numerous public debates, that many citizens of individuals and associations have appeared and talked about the problem of the OPGs and their food that is not competitive to be placed on the market along the coast, but can be in the back. Here's a colleague from my area who can know that would be great if the state allowed the OPG to be producers, as they are, and that they could place their food and that they could be renters. You can find an element for these areas, you can find a legal moment. Once again, until the second reading try to get these people back into these areas and the rest of the people in rural areas, to legally allow people to be renters and producers in their OPGs that will not be harmful as there will be some other corporations in the development of the Republic of Croatia, where they are concreteized beaches, where it is suitable for foreign investors to build huge projects and hotels, I don't know why they don't want to allow the OPGs to be in the hinterland and the potential of the survival of these people, but I think it's a key moment and a key problem, that people produce in Dalmatian Zagora, Lica, regardless of where, in continental Croatia, to produce and allow them to sell on their doorstep, and also to be small half boarders in their areas and in the tourist season, and of course that would give additional value to the extension of the tourist season because it's not only the long term and the weather of tourism and summer, when it's up in the winter and summer. I can only boast in my neighborhood religious tourism and Sinjsko alka as a brand and Cetina river clean and mountains and lakes, we have something to show, both historically and traditionally, and means we have food fantastic, Sinj arambashi, Sinjjski prosciutto, and in other areas, we have what to show. When you come to Sinj in the Alkah (Sinj), try it, and most of you were, and you will see what we have, we have what to show. However, we should enable people to rent, help them and stay in those areas. Mostly mountain areas that can be even more interesting in winter than in summer. And it's a demographic measure. To allow people to produce, to sell, to rent, to rent in their area, and not to have to stay whenever they produce, to be uncompetitive, because it suits naturally GMO products, we see how many pigs are imported, we see even the man who is in Vrgorec, the young man who planted the orchard, just came... He couldn't sell the fruit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're a tourist country. He couldn't sell the peaches he made on his own, but took a saw, drank, and went to Ireland. This man now in Ireland circumcises other people's orchards, and his hearth is extinguished. I would ask you to think more seriously about the OPG, about cooperativeship much more seriously, to educate people, to refer to community in these areas, to join together, that all together can use these capacities, resources to survive in this area because without survival and return to these areas believe me, nor will the Croatian budget have any of that, except for individuals and interest groups that concreteise beaches and which already build exclusively large hotels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90782	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Replica, dear colleague of the Young Madyer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90783	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you were talking about continental tourism. I completely agree because I believe continental tourism has been neglected by the Republic of Croatia. Here, I primarily think of Croatia's Zagorje, Podravina and Slavonia, where there is, and the rural tourism association of Croatia which is the only association that gathers providers of rural tourism services, which has made certain remarks, because the Law on Rural Tourism has existed for more than 25 years, and it is not exactly defined and I think we should invest more attention on continental tourism to allow family farms to produce, that they can and sell it, and that would stop perhaps moving from part of Slavonia, from part of Podravina and Croatian Zagorje. I think we should focus more on continental tourism than this part.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90784	I thank my esteemed colleague, Madero. Answer me, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90785	The biggest potential of Croatian tourism is continental Croatia along the Adriatic which we use both the coast and the divorce of the coasts and our islands, and there it is weakly mastered because it is overly concreteized, it is poorly managed by maritime well-being. It is, we will not enter the Golden War now, the ways of concreteizing the Makarska coast, Trogir, the way... But the continental part is a huge potential. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With production, with renting, with production that is enabled, organic production, where we will protect people so that they can... on their doorstep, but they need to be relieved through the OPG's ability to rent in the continental part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to be half boarders, boarders, sell their food. But it's very important that cooperatives and O.P.G.s, not just impose costs on them, harrassors and people are moving out. I think you're right here and you and the Association that's fighting for this... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90786	I thank my colleagues Bull. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90787	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, I agree with you that the continental part of Croatia is a huge potential. A few days ago, with several party members, we changed Croatia to visit Ravne Kotara, our Dalmatian Slavonia, Dalmatia Zagora after that. There from Podgradje, Oklahoma, all the way to Drnis. Talk to vineyards, people who have an eco, means rural tourism. They are simply ignored on the one hand, and on the other hand are restrictive conditions. They need to be allowed all of this, I totally agree. So if I come to your house, you take me in, and you won't be giving me bad food. It's not mass tourism there. So we have to give them everything to stay here, to keep them, so life doesn't get complicated. Imagine, so they poison us into big, in these big malls. It's poisoning. And when we get to the O.P.G., it's ours, it's healthy food, and that's where people look out. They have good meaning, one ethical approach to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90788	I thank Professor Lovrinović. Here's a colleague of Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90789	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrinović, I see you were in Sinj, you were at the Alkar Museum, we have something to show, Cetitina Krajina, Drniš, Ravni Kotar, Lici, Gorski Kotar and that is our potential. But interest groups don't have the potential. It needs to be moved, an import lobby needs to sell food, big multinational companies need to concreteize our coast where they will work their facilities and that it will be the only offer to tourists. And we are both gastro and religious and sports tourism at the moment. We have all the conditions on the continental part of the Republic of Croatia. And those conditions, we have a close proximity to the sea. Everyone's talking, we need to connect blue and green Croatia. The only thing that made the people of Slavonia go... work for several hundred kunas, thousands of kunas in the season, instead of producing their own food, that it is possible to have OPGs, that they can be renters, be cooperatives and develop the entire Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the only way we can get people back and fight for survival in these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90790	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90791	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we hear a lot of controversy about this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act. We've heard colleagues and attitudes that support this bill, as well as criticism of it. The truth that these changes and additions will bring certain headaches to many of our tenants who categorized their facilities by 2007, so now they need to go back to that categorization to avoid losing stars to those who provided services and food, meaning lunch and dinner and so on. However, I would remind all of us that in this House we have brought a strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020, where we have defined ourselves and said that we want the Republic of Croatia to be among the 20 leading tourist destinations in the world. It binds us, and it gives us the task of making all of us a step forward together so that we can actually become one. The fact is that in recent years we have an increasing number of arrivals, an increasing number of overnight stays, and in 2017 we record 13% more arrivals, 11% more overnights, in the first half of this year we have a new increase, which says that we are no longer a country that only deals with tourism as a seasonal activity, but we are becoming a country that does it all year round. In the structure of GDP, it participates with 20% again depending on the counties, e.g. and in our coast we have a Dubrovnik-Neretva County where we have over 23% of the roles of tourism in GDP. That revenue goes, we hope, and this year it will cross 80 billion kuna even more. And the largest number of arrivals and overnight stays are made right in private accommodation. Almost 47% of our accommodation facilities are in private accommodation, we know which category and structure and our citizens are engaged in and the reasons why they are currently engaged in this activity, from their convenience that they are mostly on the coast, in the islands, but also to supplement their home budget. That is why both we and the Government and the Parliament should be different and is from the way they settle and pay their tax obligations to it when it comes to categorisation. It saddens me that the other day we have an inscription that Croatia is in 4th place in the quality of services in the countries of the region and even if we were to record a slight decline, so that when we talk about tourism, I would like to appeal to those other activities where here it says: secret customers have visited some 800 different facilities, and there the situation is bad, from gas stations, retail facilities, supermarkets, sales places, telecommunications and so on, it certainly affects the ratings and attitude of a guest about the Republic. I would go back to this categorization of objects that would, or the tenant who would need it and do it because they had done the categorization by 2007. A large number of such cases have already been resolved, namely either because of the responsibility itself, or because there has been a transfer from one family member to another, enlargement or capacity reduction, so that in our Sibenik-Knin County there will be around 2,000 objects that will need to be categorized. The city of Vodice, which has the largest number of beds in private accommodation in Croatia, I think it has a different attitude towards private owners and therefore I particularly welcome this amendment of the law that states that the regulation of opportunities, that, without punishment, remove irregularities and shortcomings identified in inspection supervision because we know that it is about our citizens or older age or those with, I would say, and those less educated so that they need both help and suggestion in any case. It is not a deliberate violation of the law, but it is not addressed because every day the legal regulations are becoming more complex and burdensome for our small tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90792	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have a replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Martinchev, you said that we had brought a strategy for tourism development by 2020 and that it bound us to some things and that we should stick to it. Look, that tourism strategy also says that taxes won't change for 5 years in tourism, so this government did the first thing it did when the VAT came in for 100% catering. Now look, either we stick to the strategy or we don't stick to it. We can't go a little bit as we like it, so we will, so we won't. The second thing, you said about the decline in the quality of our tourism relative to the region, you see, here, now little owners who enrich their service on the Adriatic by providing lunch, dinner or so, we talk about people who have 4 or 5 rooms and through this enrich their service further complicate the possibility of enriching the quality of the service, on the other hand we encourage apartments where guests will come and buy roasted chicken for 12 kuna in Konzum because they work until midnight at the Adriatic supermarket, and we do nothing about it. So let's talk about the quality of the service in tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90794	Thank you, fellow Djujic, please watch your time. Answer, dear colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90795	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Djujic, he doesn't speak at all in the strategy exactly what the tax rate will be, just leading a tax policy that won't go to the heart of tourism. As far as quality is concerned, we are said to have fallen and we are in fourth place when it comes to the overall quality of services, meaning gas stations, supermarkets and everything else. No one prevents the tenant from giving him breakfast, lunch and dinner, only then he'll have to regulate himself differently. Then they will have to organize, or report as a craftsman. And at the end of the day, when you look at the craft, it must be the one who sells popcorn or corn, so why does someone who has 10 bedrooms, for example? spouses can have every solution on 20 beds, all together have 40 beds as small tenants provide breakfast, lunch and dinner services and pay only a flat tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90796	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next debate, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90797	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I want to say about these amendments to the Household Activity Act and, of course, I welcome the intention of trying to introduce more order within the private accommodation of small tenants and raise the quality of this accommodation. In order to talk about small tenants or private accommodation, we need to go back a little bit to history and see how this category even happened, let's call it the tourism within which it developed for almost 50 years and compare in those 50-years we had once and what we have today. As the winter frei famous, so from room without bathroom, then rooms with bathroom, it eventually became apartments with 5 stars that have saunas and swimming pools and all the necessary logistics to serve or meet the needs of guests. These were constant investments by the owners of the facilities when they first started domicile, and then all those who came to the premises, first as tourists, and then learned the values of these spaces and then began to build their holiday homes, cottages that eventually became rental houses and they became small tenants. And then it came in 2000, 2002, 2003, etc. The famous apartmentisation, which in the era of the first loans available on the market allowed with insufficient quality legislation, with local self-government without spatial plans, enabled devastation of practically space in terms of building a large number of tourism facilities that were primarily intended for sale. In time, however, it stopped and those who were building sales facilities are now more or less renting such facilities and achieve very likely good prices and within that space we came up to 92 thousand registered via e-visors of people who are dealing with small i.e. which are engaged in the rental of accommodation facilities, i.e. accommodation units with 540 thousand. So, almost half of Croatia's tourism and we have 350 thousand people around it that mean they're moving around, with which tourism means, they've built their own facilities, they've made some living space suitable for themselves, but at some point in the year, they've decided to rent it and reach a certain level of income. When we approach that, we need to be very careful not to cause anything that could be called spin or false information and then have problems interpreting what we wanted. So when we talk about this bill's proposal, I think it's going in the right direction, we just have to respect good statistics and we need to know that in these few years back and legalization of these objects that occurred in the area of especially the coast and the island, that we've been through a number of times retegorization of certain objects, that we've been through local self-government measurements of these objects, that there are statistics that can be much more quality than what we have here, that we know from them who we're talking to. Because, looking at just like this for the first time, as we say, we said 20 thousand of those who have a solution by 2007, we should raise something or retegorize our facilities because we see that this is not in line with what we have to offer today. The question is, what's in that 20,000 renters? I don't believe they've raised the level of their services to this day. I live in one destination and I know what such a solution can have and what objects look like today. The one who hasn't invested in his facility in 10 years, he's having trouble dealing with tourism at all. So we probably have objects that are much more suitablely arranged, but we're probably not good at them... I think that when we talk about some kind of penalization of those who won't in a year, two or four get into recategorizing an object, that a star like a star today on the market in small tenants can mean something and it doesn't have to mean anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if you have 3 stars, you can set your price to it, if you have 4 you can agree on your price to offer the user. Doesn't mean the one with the three stars won't get a higher price than the one with the four. So, in the price section, it doesn't mean anything. What does that mean? So in that part of the minimum terms that the administration looks at and writes, that fits. Are we the most righteous here, too? And there we need to see through the regulations that we respected in the categorization of certain objects, to say, now that's the object that really fits, I don't know, four stars and it's inside the space satisfying. There's, I don't know, room, living room, kitchen, one bathroom and that's it. We don't respect the balcony, I don't know if we respect it, we don't respect the terrace, we respect the pool, it doesn't matter. So, we need to see, indeed, through the possible changes in the sublegal acts, what is more of these small tenants in inspection controls, and sometimes they can't or out of ignorance don't know why they've missed such a situation or they're simply not ready to meet that condition to pass the inspection supervision. The question is whether we will be able to administratively follow this measure that we want to introduce. Do we have as state the capacity to send 20 thousand new retegorizations at that time in a way that happens. Because I'm saying, the question of small tenants is a question that appears more and more through the establishment of associations. I don't know if the ministry has had any conversations with the representatives of these associations. If not, I think we have enough time until the second reading to sit down, to talk, to really see what bothers them, what the ministry wants, and what are the opportunities to enable them to also get certain benefits that you can through this program that you have led them to enter into the restoration of their facilities, that you will offer them certain programs through which they can come to the fact that in a year, two, three can offer better accommodation conditions or better quality of their facilities and that they have reason to get into it because if we want to bring them into it without any practical punishment, it can still work, there is no penalization of it, you are still the renter just doesn't have a star, I don't know what we have to do with it, so basically. I think that every single one of us, I say, when he looks at the situation on his field, I, as head of the municipality, president of the tourist community, know how many solutions I have in my holiday home tax. We're giving them orderly solutions and everyone's in the rent business. And it shouldn't be like that, but it just happens. And not a small number, but in large percentages, we look at where they come from, the owners say, how many foreigners come to us today on the coast where they want to settle permanently, so look at the way they deal with tourism. Let's just say the inspections in these facilities don't even go very rarely. And here we have the biggest complaints of domestic people who live, who live, who have become, these people have become unfair competition. They have better access to capital, have more opportunities and, of course, they deal differently with it, but there are only two, three months, we leave everything else to others, means infrastructure and payment and maintenance, etc. So in this story I say, we have to be quite precise, not to leave our doubts in public, that until the second reading, we see with associations of small tenants, and there are many, indeed, many of them, who are founded, who want to make a contribution to themselves in the sense that they can give better conditions, that they can do better because it's a good job today and it can be earned. We must respect the fact that many people are still in credit, that it is not easy to get credit from credit to credit, let's say those who entered in 2002, 2003 took loans until 2023, until 2030, no, not to renew their facilities. The question of whether they can get into further credit debt when we know that a large number of them don't even work. It's a question of those who are the holders of these rental solutions, whether they're even registered somewhere, so that's one base where the state needs to start thinking and how to introduce them into systems that the state has, to offer them benefits so that they want to enter such systems. So a lot of open questions, and I think it's a good material that we can make some more shifts until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90798	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Dragica Roscic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90799	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected representatives of the promoters, it is evident that all forms of tourism in the Republic of Croatia are growing and the fact is that most tourism is happening on the coast but we do not need to ignore all forms of tourism growing in our mountain. Two years ago when I went to organize a roundtable for tourism growth in Imotska krajina, when we agreed on the call we were going to send, then there were some 80 houses that had a pool to rent. When we finalized the invitation, the director of the tourist community told me that today I am registering the 100th swimming pool so that we immediately changed the name of this call for a round table of tourism growth than we called it a round table, a table for the 100th registered pool or a holiday house for the swimming pool in tourism. And that is definitely what the data testify that this bill, or amendment and addition of the Household Activity Act, when it is given, states that there are 90,000 private tenants and today, when we are discussing the last two months, as the Minister's assistant said this morning on the board, we have 100, 700 private tenants. And certainly all these forms of tourism are growing, so I would also like to refer to my colleague Bulja, and I am glad that there is a fellow parliamentary representative from Vrgorec, he said as by the shore is the sea and the sun and we have food in Zagorec, but we have some food and along the coast, so we do not just say that this gastrotourism is growing in Zagorje and until we have passed a new electoral law, it grows especially in Vrgorec and electoral tourism, so we often used to joke. It is difficult to predict all forms of tourism that will develop all forms of tourism but when we have new and amendments to the Law on catering activity before summer, and when the season has already started somehow, of course everyone is concerned, there are various inscriptions and there are often times when all tourists arrive at 8. I mean, you can kill a man, you won't be punished, no one will care, and of course all the people of Baska Voda, Gradac, Podgora, Brela, where I come from, when they think they'll have to go to a tourist office in Makarska for these changes and additions, so maybe in the crowd, because of the crowd in one area that's 9, 10, 15 km away, spend 2 hours on the road, of course their head hurts. And so I came to the Tourism Committee this morning, when I asked about this new categorization, maybe I asked a little bit and provocatively, so what does that categorization even mean, so if I'm going somewhere, then the hell I'm looking at some stars from the tourist community, but I'm opening up Trip Advisor and Booking.com and we're looking at all the reviews and then I'm asking for numbers. So we have information here, today it has been mentioned that 20,000 of such renters will be checked because by 2007, 56 000 registered and only 20,000 have not already requested some categorization because of their expansion, changing their facilities. So 20,000 of them may be all in sync, but maybe none of them are, and they'll check it out. Does this mean that some of them will be able to lose their ability to rent if they can't satisfy some kind of star and so on, doesn't mean that it's been defined, so it'll simply determine whether they're still satisfying those stars and they'll be able to work on the market, achieve the prices they achieve, but here's a colleague of the other assistant minister said that still 36,000 renters have been constantly looking for these changes and categorization and that it means something to them. And we mentioned, we all mentioned today, how most of these reviews, how most people watch reviews, information and Google maps, but she also mentioned the phenomenon that these reviews and buy that there's a lot of manipulation, that rays can be bought, and yet some of them look at our stars. Although, of course, if we were competitive, because we are a safe country and we are valuedly still in favour, but certainly why not have one quality system within the national level, which would still say something. Because like we said, hotels every four years are checking to see if they meet those rules. Well, for the end, I'd like to mention that it's also important at the hotel to talk to the hotel owners or hotel managers. They tell me the good are our stars, but we also do when we go to Italy or somewhere else when we see that some hotel has 3 or 4 stars we expect quality as it is in Croatia, and it is often much worse, so maybe we should make a comparison of these stars and somehow point out that 3 stars in the Republic mean much more quality than in another neighbouring country. And it's more or less what you'd like to look back at until the second reading, of course, I'll try to check all pensions on the ground, private tenants, so far it's been done text messages as you're registered, so far you've all answered me that they have a trade and some legal form that's not exactly the flat-rate one, so there's no way that they're not going to be able to offer lunch or dinner in private rental. But if there are more of them in this work, I have to criticise a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90800	I would like to thank my dear colleague Dragici Roscic, next debate, dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90801	I would like to thank the honourable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, Glava, with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Borders and Supplements of the Law on Hosting Activity, which brings us a number of novelties and similar attributes to a number of provisions relating to the performance of the catering activity. And here I would highlight some such as Robinson tourism, which is certainly a commendable newspaper, where this tourism, the register, as a special type of catering facility, which is an increasingly popular form of tourism and which includes a significant part of the market and certainly it was time to be recognized at both national level and regulated legally. Another significant advantage of this bill is that a tourist inspector who has a new role is prescribed, which is a corrective role, and a number of natural and legal persons, will not be immediately punished for minor or larger failures, but will be given an opportunity for these irregularities to be found in a certain period and ID. However, I believe that this law also has certain shortcomings, a law that you didn't originally pass, but here, through these additions and changes, you have the opportunity to improve it. Since I come from Slavonia and know the opportunities of continental Croatia, I must say that this bill, in some ways, is limiting to continental Croatia, so I will try to explain why. For example, Article 30(3) is prescribed to consider a household catering service as a tenant that offers only breakfast to guests, while this has been regulated through breakfast half board or even full board. If we take this change from the perspective of a number of OPGs, we in Osijek Baranja County, where private owners, while the OPGs, who turned to tourism, rented accommodations to use the products that they produced at their home when serving these meals. These are individuals, the entire families, who have raised families, who have borrowed loans, who have invested large and significant funds, to unite these two activities into one and which we now offer as a solution reregistered into crafts or companies. The reason for their registration as a tenant, which is very important, was precisely, the conditions laid down by this law in Article. 39. these are, for example, 10 rooms, restrictions, preparation, and service up to 80 guests, organization of celebrations and events, up to 5 times a year, etc. It is important to point out that many foreigners are just coming to the continent for this indigenous atmosphere because they want to pay for this particular type of tourism, they want to eat domestic food, they want to see domestic animals, they want to get to know life in the country in some ways. And by current law, it is limited that, for example, the OPG receives a bus of people at night, for example, to serve meals to receive one cruiser who is increasingly common with us in Osijek Baranja County and organizes more than 5 weddings, a team of Bildings, or manifestations during one year. I believe that this should make a certain distinction, in cases, because accommodation in the OPG, for example, in Baranja, cannot be considered competition, given that it is two absolutely different categories of tourism and different forms of markets. We in Slavonia consider agriculture and tourism truly one of the important branches, an economy whose combined agro tourism encourages and develops rural areas, but also employment in rural areas, and that is precisely why I propose that, through changes to this in the second reading or due to the adoption of the rules, this one distinction is made for a number of OPGs that are also owners, through, whether raising these restrictions or simply lifting are limited, because I believe that they are in some way damaged by this law. And when you think about it, you should certainly keep in mind the specificity of different regions in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90802	I thank my esteemed colleague Mikulic. Next debate, respected counterpart Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90803	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with his associates. Here is the occasion that in this first reading through all representatives of clubs and all those who were interested today in this debate actually contribute to one better and better quality law in the second reading by listening to both good and quality proposals on the one hand, and some who have absolutely nothing to do with this law, but not with the real situation on the ground. You are in your opening statement, in fact, to those who were interested in certain things that were happening to this law, saying there is nothing to be said about the amendments and additions to this law. A colleague of Branka said a strategy on the development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia has been adopted in this House and it is logical that the strategy is accompanied by both legal and sublegal acts. However, we must not interfere with the fact that 2017 was a record year and that they are already predicting for 2018 that the same thing will happen in 2018. So when we talk about changes and additions to this Household Activities Act, then it's good to remember some other things from the past, and here's Minister Shuker, and I remember that it just happened in his time, and I'm going to tell you today we get a commendation for it, quite accidentally one minister then staying on one round table, coming back to Zagreb, staying in one restaurant saw certain things that he didn't like and brought one rule about, it seems to me, sanitary services or something like that, and that actually made one boom that the whole of Europe talk about if you want, and that means that these sanitary knots when you walk into Bregan to Konaval from Ilock to Pula are done clean and actually contributes to a greater tourist quality, and we can't ignore it, therefore a simple rule, not even the law, but a rule. What do I want to say? I cannot believe that the Ministry of Tourism, knowing these results and listening to discussions of today's colleagues, would be able to conclude that this law, amendments and additions to this law for the purpose of counter-private renters, caterers, which is unimaginable to me. I, reading this law, see a lot of very good things, quality things, things that need to be arranged, that there is no anarchy on the market itself. What I'd like to say is, I know that in the region of Dalmatia, not only Dalmatia, but in the area of the entire coast may be one different situation, but what happened to us in the last few years is this continental and rural tourism. I'll tell you about Imotsky from three years ago, there were about 10,000 nights and several hundred shy bed rentals, today it's a figure of over 60,000 nights and about 1200 beds and over 10,000 arrivals. And I believe that the Ministry of Tourism has also given one of its great pains and I believe that it will continue to monitor certain projects, ideas, perhaps suggestions that come from these areas which are revealed by tourists, and in fact contribute to individual families, and also to the whole area in terms of the total income of that tourism. On the other hand, someone mentioned, a colleague seems to me that there are certain administrative and bureaucratic obstacles that occur to private tenants and mentioned the guests themselves. I think that we need to think politically strategically and these things that happen in amendments to this law we need to know that this part of the Republic of Croatia is uninhabited or that people are moving out. So when we bring in certain or call certain competitions through the programmes of the Ministry of Tourism, I think this is also the occasion in the Croatian Parliament to say that we also look out for such things because it is not the same as renting or being on the market along the coast or in the continental part. There are bright and good examples, but I think those people should be supported because every investment in tourism, especially in such areas, is welcome and I think it is strategic. I know she's not strategic by law, but I think anyone who invests here actually makes one strategic investment. Today I have asked and the secretary of state answered and I am glad, so we have to be careful that some things do not go to the harm of private renters, but it is their money, and I need the Ministry of Tourism to strategically design things and, in fact, these amendments and additions of certain laws should always be looked at by those who are end-users. Our goal is to increase and improve tourism services for all of us, and the tourist service is not only improved by certain things that are related to the amendments and additions to the Law on hosting because it improves both in infrastructure and in flora and in fauna and in everything that is actually our advantages, and the advantage of Croatia is that it is the whole tourist country. Unfortunately, some potentials have not been used and I believe that in the future they will do so. What the tourism ministry is doing is giving me hope that, at least what I'm following, but I'm saying, today from this debate and it's good that through the first reading it can actually learn certain things that make people on the ground, so here and in this law, the reasoning of this law is said by about 90 000 renters, and we've heard the same thing on committees, it's not a static thing, it's dynamic and it's constantly filling up and it's very good, and we're actually thinking about doing it as much as possible, to be organised as possible, and these little things that they've talked about, or some things they may not, should be considered when we talk about this rural and rural tourism, it's hard to find catering facilities that might provide services, especially at the OPGs that can, with food production, provide such services. How to find that one solution so that competition is not unfair, that we don't damage the caterers, and that we actually help private tenants and it's up to you, but also on the task force to actually think about this by the second reading because today is the most talked about and, if possible, change such things until the second reading. I'm asking you to do it. If not, improve what is possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90804	I thank my esteemed colleague, Babic. Replica, dear colleague Anton Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90805	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Babić, here you mentioned that you do not believe that the Ministry of Tourism is doing counter-rents and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as some MPs have pointed out in their statements that this is possible. Here, I'd just like to say that the tourism ministry is doing exactly the opposite with this bill. It takes care of the quality and totality of the tourist product in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. its competitiveness in international markets. As far as the Ministry of Tourism is now looking at this in some way as some kind of a harsh blizzard, I don't think it should be seen in the short term, that this Law must not be seen in a way that some populist points are obtained by it itself, but it must definitely be made known that the Ministry of Tourism can, professionally with a lot of respect for the situation on the market, give solutions that will overall improve the Croatian tourist product.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90806	I thank my esteemed colleague Kleman. The answer of my colleague Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90807	Thank you, Vice President. I agree with you, it's a good thing you pointed that out and it should be emphasized. I didn't purposely want to talk about some of the things that are visible in this Law because my colleagues were talking so I wouldn't repeat myself. I'll just say two things. So, both the collaboration with HBOR itself and the possibility of private renters on very favourable terms with 2% interest, with... A period of one year is a big deal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm going to say one more thing about dealing with the problem of housing the seasonal and these field workers where you got here to do your own jobs, that it won't be considered the same by providing catering services and accommodation. I know a hotel that's now made in the Zadtoria municipality that actually provides tourism services in the Macarska Riviera area and I think it's commendable and I'm glad you've thought about this. I don't know if it's happened before, but it's good to think about it and that the Ministry takes care of things like that. Like I said, until the second reading, there's a possibility of improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90808	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Babic. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Steve Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90809	Your Honor, Vice President. When it comes to hospitality, however, it is often heard here in the debates that everything seems to be so that small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, especially caterers, will destroy what we hear from some colleagues in this House who are leaving after that. But to compare hospitality in the rural area with hospitality in the coastal area, it's like heaven and earth. But for the sake of comparison, in the rural area especially in small towns, so below 1000, below 2,000 inhabitants where each one at a certain time opened his own craft, catering or not knowing what, everyone was subject to any inspection supervision, especially under conditions that he had to meet. Especially from fiscalization, material and technical conditions, the size of space, sanitary nodes, terraces and others where they were responsible even for the large fines they had to pay, so they also found themselves in debt, they had to close and certainly. In general, the traffic that had to be met by a craftsman, a caterer in such a single environment moved about 1,000 kunas to meet all obligations to the state, which he was very difficult to meet even before this crisis that has now hit us. And when it comes to catering activities in the coastal and coastal areas, it's the top of the peak. The fact is that inspectorial surveillance cannot, especially in the season, reach all places and monitor what it could during the year, especially in the rural area. So the IRS inspectors and the rest of the Sanitary who were doing their job out of season across the continent, were getting up in action, I call it that and going to sea where they could still get some bigger result in that short time. But in order to win it at all, they had to have some criteria. And the criteria were that, according to the situation found, renters and catering facilities were able to determine the actual situation, whether or not sanctioned or not, and indicate the negativity that was taking place. Each tenant or caterer shall have a specific category which is required to be published and which must be legally supported. However, the German guest does not know what year the categorisation was conducted. If it's been spent a long time ago, it's known what the conditions were then. And now these are far, far more difficult conditions to meet. Therefore, it is not about the repression of small hosts, the repression of hospitality in rural areas or the repression of rural tourism, but only about categorisation that will not harm anyone who cares about improving their tourism, their crafts and their offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90810	I thank my esteemed colleague, Stevie Cule. We have a final word on behalf of the motionary, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Tonchi Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90811	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives. First, to thank you for your active discussion and suggestions, we will certainly take into account everything that has been said today, we have carefully recorded all your remarks. However, I think it takes a little bit of further clarification, so we can repeat some things again so that there are no wrong interpretations of some of the things that are here in the law, so let me go through these things one more time. So we mentioned here and in the opening statement, and some of you in your debate mentioned the Strategy for the Development of Croatian Tourism and what, which is its objective and what is in it. So the answer to one of the questions is the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia is very much holding to the strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia which was unanimously adopted in this House and because it is the framework under which we operate, by which we implement all the activities and measures that we are obliged and obliged as a ministry. In one part of the Strategy for the Development of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia, there is one category that refers to improving the structure and quality of accommodation. So now that I'm not going to go wide I'm just going to read you one definition from that category so you get the impression why and how we spend the quality of the accommodation, specifically private accommodation in this law. It means improving the structure and quality of accommodation, continuously increasing the hotel share and raising the quality of accommodation in campsites and households, while reducing their share of the total accommodation capacity. As mentioned in the opening part of private accommodation currently in the Republic of Croatia, we already have over 100,000 owners and that is one huge number. We are, say, looking at some of our competitive environments in the Mediterranean, we are one of the countries that definitely has the largest share of private accommodation in the total capacity of tourist accommodation facilities. And we're like that, in that part I mentioned, in my exposure that then we can always see it as either a potential threat or a potential opportunity. The tourism ministry headed by Minister Cappelli views this category of guests exclusively as one big opportunity. But in order for them to be an opportunity for us and for them to be competitive, we need to make sure that, in accordance with our strategy, we raise the quality of these accommodation facilities systematically and raise the quality. Not only because it is something that we have drawn out with some kind of strategic documents but also because of market conditions or market needs and what the market requires of our owners. Why is this part about private tenants relevant to services, pensions and half boards? So we're talking here, a few of you in the debates used an example for a few rooms or a few apartments, we're now putting on certain restrictions or asking for registration. So let's say next. So, everyone who wants to provide services, private renters and private accommodations that have done it so far or who wants to do it in the future, will still be able to do it, just have to do one very simple until registration which is nothing that is excessively demanding and something that can be done of course. With that registration they will simply enter the system and that part will be controlled among other things as well as any other form of catering offer in the Republic of Croatia. There was no target here, small, private owners or those who have one or two rooms from the apartment and so on. We have a situation in the Republic of Croatia, you know that private renters are considered, or may have registered up to 20 beds per person. However, by staging and various machinations in a way that 20 rooms are on the father, 20 rooms are on the mother, 20 on the grandmother, 20 on the grandfather and so on. We have situations to specifically say developed tourist destinations in the Adriatic that you have practically accommodation facilities, houses of 40, 50 or 60 beds which are classified as private owners. In these houses come organized tours that have been arranged and sold with tourist agencies where the prices are negotiated and directly for the sake of prices, i.e. half board services, or pensions. And these facilities are preparing food for those 50, 60 people, so we're talking about the average above, a potential one bus, which somehow measured in tourism. So there's this huge part of serving food and drink services, completely out of control. And that is something that is our obligation to prevent in a way, to ask that we can simply, when I say we, think the institutions of the Republic of Croatia can enter and control what is happening in these facilities and to meet some basic and minimum technical conditions as in all others. And that's what we want to achieve with this, and that's the intensity behind our proposal, and we can't put any restrictions on small tenants or what's popularly said to Grandma Maru for two rooms or two apartments. I will repeat once again, all private tenants who, in some kind of good household and good service to their guests when they come to honor them with some welcome drink or lunch or welcome dinner or something like that that they do not charge them but with this honor, of course something that will always be able to do further. But if they want to deal with organized business, which is exactly what I'm saying now, with this example of 20+20+20 or something like that simply... be in the framework and the same operating conditions as everyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order for us, it may not have been in the opening statement well enough, the intensity of the tourism ministry was not here with this recategorization that we simply put some administrative and bureaucratic barriers through which our private tenants must go through, we made sure that we had both sides of the equation. One side of the equation is that we are asking to retegorise objects that have not entered and checked their status and status for the last 20 or 30 years, but at the same time at the tourism ministry level we have provided specific conditions of credit for the same and private tenants, and not for those who have to be retegorised but for absolutely all private owners in the Republic, I think that so far the tourism ministry has never provided such microcredit conditions for private owners who are extremely competitive, so we are talking about an amount of up to 50,000 euros with a year of waiting and interest somewhere between 2% and 3% depending on the currency. These are truly fantastic market conditions that will definitely make one big difference. You know that in the past, the Ministry of Tourism has also co-financed swimming pools and worked on various projects that systematically tried to raise the quality of accommodation capacities in its categories and in this, so we will continue to do so. So we take great care of these private owners, we take care of what we give them conditionally said retegorization obligations, although I repeat again, if for any reason they don't want to do it, because of the financial and any others, they won't have to do it, they will still be able to deal with providing accommodation services but they will simply lose that star tag because our goal is that our guests have enough and have an equal standard in all the facilities they have, which are categorized by a certain star or mark. Another argument that I want to prove is that the Ministry of Tourism is very concerned about all these service providers, and here we published the results of the programme that the Ministry of Tourism has been doing for a long time, and this is the competitiveness of the tourism economy in which we have shared around 24 million kunas for 485 projects, where this entire programme is aimed at raising quality and standards and of several different measures that we have in this programme, one measure went especially for the OPGs, means for the caterers and service providers on the OPGs because we are very aware that this is a great strategic competitive advantage and we are investing very much in the OPGs. So now the part about the O.P.G. and it's over. So it's very clear that we're communicating accurate information, which is that the OPGs can still serve lunch and dinner services without any problem, and there are absolutely no limits on the OPGs in this matter. In the law of Article 39, and it says that it is a service of food and drink mostly from its own production, it can be said and intended perhaps a slightly wider category because not every OPG is the same, there is not every OPG diversification of any product, someone specializes only in certain fruit varieties, someone specializes only in certain vegetable cultures or similar, we did not want to be strict in the law because the law is nevertheless a thing that is quite wide. So we wanted to leave the possibility that food and drink can be served from mostly our own production, but of course what is missing at that OPG and the need for catering services to be obtained from other sources as well as from neighbouring OPGs or similar. So I think as far as the OPGs are concerned, and with this program of ours that we're doing investment in the OPGs, we're thinking about them, and we're raising their competitiveness and quality of content and accommodation. As for this service lunch and dinner, in remote destinations, one of your remarks was that for the facilities located in remote destinations, it might be good to allow them or that it is very difficult for them guests who are staying there to eat some other catering facility, a restaurant of itsl., so now they can watch it on two sides. You can look at it that way and you can look at it that's exactly what one big, such object is that it's one big advantage. So if you are located in a remote village or a village where there are no catering facilities, and it is precisely this domicile that you will eventually do as a private tenant, not only can you serve your pension and half-board services to your own guests, it gives you the opportunity to offer these same services to other guests who are located in the facilities near you, in the same remote settlements or similar. So we're giving these private tenants the opportunity to think about a little more comprehensive service, to think about diversifying their services, and to think about, in addition to clean accommodation, that offers and food services and half boards. As for this provision and this article regarding the 15 people we discussed today, several of you have had an observation. So what's this about? Currently, the current law states this article, a provision in which renting in private houses or apartments, so we are not talking about facilities that are registered for catering or rent rather than private property. Until now, this provision has stated that all more than 15 persons staying in those facilities who are not registered or paid a residence tax are considered to be engaged in the rental activity. Now, one of the reasons why we removed this article is because it has practically shown that it has been completely inconclusive so far, because again I say, we are talking about private apartments and houses and otherwise tourist inspection as it is today as well as tomorrow which the State Inspectorate will not have the authority to enter such facilities in private apartments or houses so as to eventually control whether an unregistered activity is being carried out. At present, it is now a practice of unregistered activities in customs jurisdiction, and this should be later in this State Inspectorate, but regardless of the fact that private property is inalienable and we know that to enter private property, it should be either a court order, along with police and witnesses, and so on. It's something that's really made it harder to control and adequately deal with black rentals. And that's something we're working on right now, in this new one, in discussions about the state inspectorate, to see what can be done here together, in order to in some way, more adequately get into control of these renters in black. But precisely because of the incompetence of this article, that's why we eliminated it, but I understand your concern, in a way that it can be interpreted, that if this article is no longer available now, that the facilities, that these facilities of private houses or apartments, that they can practically be performed unregistered activity. I understand the fear, so, as it might have been so far, but we're going to think about it a little bit, let's see how we're going to solve it. As regards health tourism, also in the opening presentation, he himself stated that in two laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism, therefore, the Law on the provision of services on tourism and now this Law on catering activities, it is very clear, what health tourism is, that we have given the possibility to provide services for food and drink, health institutions and private health practices and so on. And also, once again, just to point out and visit that we have already agreed with the Ministry of Health about their health care law, where all our definitions and suggestions regarding health tourism have been accepted. So in that part, it was in one of your presentations that there was a proposal, to contact the Ministry of Health, so to bring it all together, it means clean as a notice, that it was already done, and as far as this final tourism is concerned, the legislative meaning, when that law is adopted, then we will have everything finally settled, after practically and never before. And we create an opportunity for the additional competitiveness of Croatian tourism, we create an opportunity to increase tourism in the pre- and post-season, that is, in all year-round tourism and what is very important to us, and what is in our strategic plans of the ministry, which is the development of the continent and rural area, and precisely these special forms of tourism are very important to us for the development of this area and for the development of all year-round tourism. Also one of your comments was in today's debate, I think it was a respected representative of Pernar, that small private tenants are burdened with great influences and that this is something that should be changed, so just to correct that quote, means private tenants, currently in the Republic of Croatia, so all those who are registered up to 20 people. So, of those taxes that pay the state, they have 300 kn, stay taxes in the cot, per bed. They also pay about 1-3% of the tourist membership fee, of the total traffic that they make and pay 300 kn of the tax tax tax to the tax administration, also on the bed. And these are all the accusations that they have and, of course, more taxes on the house what you have anyway. But precisely because of these extremely small amounts that private renters in the Republic of Croatia pay, practically no work on black and any machinations is paid, because it is indeed a very small amount of those contributions they have to the state, if we can say so, in relation to the total income, which they have from the rental. So in that part, it's important that we correct it, it's important that you know that private tenants have very little and all the fees they have to pay, and that's why they are very competitive in terms of their prices and in general markets. Finally, I would only mention that our goal is to systematically raise the quality of accommodation of all catering facilities, in line with the strategy and according to this government's plan, we aim to make Croatian tourism one of the 20 most competitive, to make Croatia one of the 20 most competitive tourist countries. And we're on a very good path, to do that, given the indicators we have, given the statistics we have in recent years, we're going in the right direction. All indicators give us the right to think and believe, we see that investment in tourism is significant, we see that part of the accommodation is corrected, repaired, increased and seen as investing in types of accommodation facilities, more categories, which is also one of our final goals in line with the strategy. So our future, the future of Croatian tourism is high-quality tourism, not mass tourism, but quality tourism, tourism that generates and brings guests who travel in destinations not only during the season, but travel to pre- and post-season, that is, throughout the year, guests who stay in the facilities, where they pay above the average price of accommodation and catering services. And ultimately, employment, just through one organised system, through a well-balanced tourism system of supply and demand, we develop and hire, we develop an economy, and here you can see by all the recent events, tourism is the logical and greatest employment generator of the Republic of Croatia will certainly continue to be so. And it is our obligation to follow all of this very well together, to balance it very well together, and that is why we are doing these changes in order to make it one step further, another step, in order to raise the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. It is very important to emphasise, too, what I mentioned in the opening statement, and I will repeat once again, that the Ministry of Tourism looks at economic operators, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, as well as businessmen in general as an extremely important part of our entire society, and that with these changes related to inspections and inspections we send a very clear message, that our aim is to first warn, correct, and then possibly just act as a police officer. So our goal is to motivate people to see friends in the inspection and in the state bodies or to see someone who will help them make and offer quality content and quality service. This is the first reading of this law. I thank you again for all your comments, for all your suggestions. We're gonna do it all together, we're gonna do it, we're gonna promote it, and then we're gonna see you at the second reading, and I'm gonna thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90812	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, Tonchi Glavini. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. At the end of this debate, I think it is also in the debate, and finally, that our people who deal with hospitality and tourism deserve to be answered one fundamental and basic question. We have seen the alibi of Minister Maric and Mr Plenkovic's announcement on tax reform in the 9th month where VAT will generally decrease 1%, but what our citizens know, and what tourism workers most feel is the increase in VAT to 25%, and we expect in this reform the return of VAT to the level that was before that rise, because in this way the government of Andrej Plenkovic took about a billion euros in tourism on an annual basis, and now as a generous reduction of 1% of the general VAT rate. So I want an answer here how much VAT will be reduced in tourism in the 9th month. That a man can finish a sentence. ... [[Thank you. Mr. Maras, we've just arrived.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Well, it's everywhere in parliament in the world usually... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[I'll give you another 10 seconds, go ahead, go ahead.]] I'm asking you to give us an answer to that question. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90814	Thank you very much. Okay. Time is respected in all parliaments of the world. ... And I didn't cut the line, I wouldn't be in. [[You can't hear it.]] Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90815	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with his associates. The Rural Development Association, for the development of tourism, gathers a series of over 100 OPGs dealing with rural rural tourism and has had a number of objections to this Act and since it is the first reading, it would be right to receive them between the two readings for the interview because this response that they have received is not in line with the tourism development strategy by 2020. It simply does not stand because I think that we all aim at developing tourism, equating offers, raising quality, but also giving the OPGs a chance that since this OPG Act allows them to deal with rural tourism, to expand their activity. Secondly, you mentioned the distribution of tourism development funds, some if I remembered well 24 million kunas. How much of these funds ended up in Slavonia, Baranja, Srem, right now to help develop continental tourism. Let's give everyone a chance to deal with tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90816	Thank you very much. Third replica, Mrs. Juricev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90817	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, you said this was the law in your first reading and you were open to suggestions. Well, here is a proposal from the Croatian Chamber of crafts, namely to see how you could remove unfair competition created by commercial facilities and traders compared to catering facilities. We know that, for example. objects like fast food also prepare food, serve in paper packaging without being able to hold in space. That's what a merchant can do, bake chickens, sell, and then be considered sales. The big problem is working hours, for example. Fast food can't go beyond 12 or 24 hours at the same time as merchants, bakers and the like can work 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90818	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90819	I thank you, Vice President. Secretary of State, I'd go back to these O.P.G.s. It is true that the OPGs are practically nothing changed and that they can continue to do as they have done, but the problem with us in Slavonia that we have that these OPGs are also renters. Other tenants are for the reason that this Law forced them to do so because it imposed certain restrictions on them through those 10 rooms, through 5 events a year, etc. Here, just in that direction to find a solution because I really think that they are in an unfavourable position because these people are not making some big money with their dealings, but they are exclusively using it to survive this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90820	Thank you, too. Mr. Antun Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90821	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here, fellow Chief. You said that you listened carefully to all the suggestions and recorded them and that you would consider this in this second reading of the Law whether something could be implemented or not. I'm really asking you to do it. Don't stay and look at the problem from your angle. So, we're much wider here, we see it differently, some situations specifically I'm going to tell you about these 15 people reported, the vast majority of people, but indeed the vast majority of people, you saw from public consultation and us here in the Parliament, see it as an incentive so, to run away from the problem and to encourage work on black or to create an unfair competition. Think about it, you won't be wrong if stronger sanctions are imposed. We know it's a lack of inspectors, but don't run away from that problem, and this problem can escalate largely that we won't be able to control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90822	Thank you very much. And we only have Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90823	Thank you very much. It is sad to hear for years that legal inspections of the Republic of Croatia cannot enter the facility and check who is staying there. I think it's funny for the sake of security and for everything, first of all, I think of objects in the owner of foreigners. Put yourself in a position to go to any other state and that you can stay somewhere, that you don't sign up and that no one knows about you. And secondly, I think that in this reasoning of the law, you also had to sign the part in the provision of the Income Tax Act to see how and at what rates private renters are taxed. And third thing, I don't know what the difference is when someone from the island or from Dalmatia, Istria or Kvarner buys an apartment in Zagreb and Zagreb buys a place down there, they have a completely different treatment. With far more tourists coming to Zagreb than in some of these places. So if the property is real estate if you stay in it all the time, you stay here all the time, if you stay temporarily, you stay temporarily.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90824	We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vlaovic. Please state the article and the reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90825	Thank you, Vice President, for the injured article 238, which states that the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which, by its conduct, deviates from the general rule of conduct in the Assembly. Mr. Secretary of State here has hurt because he has not answered the questions of the MPs and the replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90826	.../ I have to interrupt you, I have to interrupt you right now, I need you, I need you, so I said I have to interrupt you right now./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90827	If he doesn't know the answer, then he should have come to the minister to give an answer when you will reduce VAT in tourism and how much continental tourism will receive money. There's a broken Rules of Procedure because it's not according to Parliament's rules. He was supposed to give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90828	I won't give you a warning, but Law 238, by the 100th time MP,... No, it doesn't apply to members of the government at all, and that's what the representatives of the clubs who negotiated for the Rules of Procedure are to blame. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But that's what I said 100 times. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'd, I mean, let it be kind of absorbed, internalized. We can change the Rules of Procedure and I think the members of the government should also be subject to criticism. However, the Parliament must criticise, it must be criticised to say so to the members of the Government but that is not what it says in Article 238. ... I didn't negotiate and now we're going on, and now we're going on application, please, please, please, please, please, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Because we don't have any other so-called. I take advantage of the opportunity to close that debate from before which she has exhausted all her resources and will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90829	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attending Activity, first reading of P.Z. No. 378, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the Final Proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 14 abstentions and 3 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90830	And now we're going to the final bill, it's a long title. - Proposal for a Household Act, first reading, P.Z. No. The proposed act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, provisions shall apply as follows from the title of the first reading. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Health. Would Minister Nada Murganic like to present the law to respected counterparts and the public? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90831	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. I will now present in the shortest lines as possible a draft draft of the Household Act and in the course of the debate I will be open to all your questions, especially as I expect a constructive debate, which is more about one significant law and law that is in the first reading. This Law has been adopted by the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy according to its plan of normative activities and according to the National Reform Programme for 2018. In the Republic of Croatia, foster care is a traditional way to care for those who need care and cannot achieve it within their families. Since 1902, it has already been present, and given the course of time, conditions have changed, as well as the needs of the users who are located in foster families, as well as foster families themselves, have changed. This Law goes in the direction of complete modernisation of this form of care for our users. The foster home register includes 3059 foster parents and foster families, 6728 users, more adults and older people 4469, and children and youth 2259. The situation in the Republic of Croatia in foster care is not entirely satisfactory because we have an insufficient number of foster families, we have an irregular distribution of foster families in the Republic of Croatia and this is precisely why it is not possible to intensify the process of deinstitutionalisation of children from social care institutions as well as the process of preventing institutionalisation in the most appropriate manner or satisfactory way. This Law aims to achieve the possibility of carrying out foster care as an occupation of unemployed foster parents, to provide specialised foster care as a profession, and to provide children with the most difficult difficulties and needs for the highest level of support and users of this service with the appropriate compensation for the work of foster parents. The law would continue to allow traditional and related foster care to be carried out. Therefore, the existing ones would not be extinguished, but would add added value, and there would be an increase in the work compensation and efforts made to care for the users of all the fosterers. The effects of this Act are to ensure the prevention of the institutionalisation of children and adults, the intensification of the process of deinstitutionalisation of children and adults who are located in institutions of social care. Improving the quality of services in foster families, regardless of the user group, increasing the number of foster families, regional, equal accessibility of foster care, establishing foster care as a single measure of self-employment, strengthening capacity and ensuring better conditions for the provision of specialised foster care for children and increasing compensation for the work of foster parents and paying compulsory insurance under a special regulation. This would improve the conditions for foster parents, allow this service to be provided by younger unemployed persons than those who do so now because more than half of the registered foster parents are over 55 years old. The provision of foster care as an occupation would also include ensuring a fixed fee for the work of the foster parent, for at least three or four adults, three children or four adults, as well as the payment of contributions according to the principle of current parent status, or nursing status. Plus supplies for every user who is in order to meet his life needs. For children with the most difficult difficulties in growing up, foster care would be provided by foster parents who would conduct specialised foster care as a profession, who would also have a fixed remuneration for work and paid contributions, and child care. An additional form of motivation for foster parents would also be a greater compensation for the work of individual users and for those foster parents as they have so far or who are carrying out traditional foster care, which implies a guaranteed work compensation, depending on the level of care needs for the user and the number of home users plus the provision for the user in accordance with the basic needs of the users. In order to ensure regional balance, the provision of this service in line with the social service provider network is in line with the needs of users, greater transparency in the selection, but also the possibility of selecting a foster parent who will provide this service with a higher level of quality, the ministry will each year determine the number of foster parents needed to carry out foster care as an interest in the next calendar year and inform social care centres. For the purpose of choosing a foster parent who will carry out foster care, for each single unit of the regional and regional self-government, or the city of Zagreb, the minister shall establish a commission for the selection of foster parents, to carry out foster care as a profession. The selection committee shall choose between all accepted requirements for the territory of the units of the regional self-government or the city of Zagreb foster parents who meet the conditions for carrying out the foster care and meet the needs according to the network. For the implementation of this Act in the state budget, increased funding has been provided, compared to the previous period and this, for the provision of accommodation to the foster family, the funds amounting to € 183 million for 2019 and for 2020 are secured for the same amount of € 183 million, to an increase of €2 million, which I have already said, we would also like to increase the compensation to traditional fosterers. For personal compensation, for fosterers, funds would be provided, for 2019 and 2020 of 45 million 550 kn and thousands of kuna respectively, indicating an increase of 13 million 478 thousand 526 kuna. The fee for the work of foster parents, who carry out foster care as an occupation, shall be determined in a single amount of 5 basics, i.e., 2500 kn, therefore, in accordance with the amount of compensation paid by the parents' statuses, i.e., the carers, and the specialised foster care is carried out as an occupation by a foster parent with a completed undergraduate university study or professional study and that fee shall be determined in the amount of 10 basics of 5 thousand kuna. For foster parents who carry out specialized foster care and have completed pre-graduate and graduate university studies or an integrated undergraduate and graduate university study, there is a fee of 13 basics, i.e. 6,500 kn, net and here we plan to have about 20-30 foster parents, which would provide specialized foster care. The Ministry shall pay all contributions for compulsory insurance through the centre of the foster homeowners. The fee for the work of the foster parent, which carries out foster care as an occupation and compensation for the work of the foster parent who performs specialised foster care as an occupation, shall not be considered as a salary, nor shall any other income subject to tax. The monthly basis for the calculation and payment of the contribution, for compulsory insurance for fosterers carrying out foster care, is the minimum monthly basis prescribed by the law governing the contributions to compulsory insurance. The monthly basis for the calculation or payment of compulsory insurance contributions for the foster parent who specializes in foster care is the average amount of monthly salary paid by one legal person in the Republic of Croatia during the period of January - August of the previous year published by the State Statistics Office. In order to achieve a higher level of quality of this service is planned in foster homes, to commit to a higher degree of education. Hosts will also be provided with a higher level of support, including social care centres, social care homes, community services centres, associations, religious communities, other legal and physical persons, providing professional assistance services in families, early interventions, family counselling and assistance services in families and local communities according to specific rules. In order to improve the implementation of the law, a campaign will be carried out in cooperation with UNICEF, as well as empowering foster families and the necessary education for all stakeholders of this process. The significant gain of this law, especially for children, is to provide a child with an adequate form of care, i.e. a return to a family environment that has a positive impact on his psychophysical development and individual approach, which is more unnecessary for each of these children and which is not possible for the institution to provide but for the negative forms of life in institutions to accumulate and there is a syndrome that is very difficult to correct at a later age. I repeat this our proposal, thank you for your attention, and I'm open to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90832	Thank you, Madam Minister. You have several replicas. You have the first line from Mrs. Strenje Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90833	I thank the chairman. I welcome the minister, I'm glad this law is finally on the bench today. What interests me is currently in the homes of social care in Croatia 1419 children. That's a lot and too much, it's on 31.12.2017. data from the Ministry itself. So, in the focus of all this and today, they should be children and mostly children. But I'm not sure we're fast enough to take care of parenting as soon as possible to take care of the children permanently. So the foster home is just one transitional and must still be a short period for each child, the child must have permanent care. I'm absolutely up for holding a child in a biological family, as long as it's good for a child. I'm absolutely against children being singled out for poverty, because for every child in the homes of social care, we're going to spend six times what could be given as a family compensation, but I think we need to speed up the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90834	Thank you, thank you very much. In the end, you decide. You can do it in the end, you can do it now, however you want. All right, here we go. Here we go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90835	Thank you. Dear MPs, if we agree that there are still too many children in the institutions, and this adoption of the law, as we said in the introduction, has one of the basic goals of preventing children from going to the institution as well as deinstitutionalisation, i.e. their return from the institution to the family would be the ultimate one, but in any case, this is about foster care, so it's one replacement family. And the tendency is, however, the decline of the number of children in institutions, therefore, the measure of separating a child from the family is one of the measures that precedes, in a way of taking away parental care certainly to wait too long, but it is an extremely sensitive measure and this fostering is one of, in a way, the threshold before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90836	Thank you, too. Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90837	... Dear Ministers, the foster parents have been suspended for personal compensation, and the new law does not mention the return of the same. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] I think it should be minimal, though, because relative foster parents still need to finance and help in that kind of fostering at this point in time when the situation is as it is, especially in the case of children. It's in case your sister gets home to her brother or something under some circumstances. This law doesn't recognize her, and it's been abolished in this one, this one doesn't recognize her, and it's not in the present one. Here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90838	I thank you for this observation. In any case, the supply for the user and relatives remained and was increased. However, this is an observation in place, I think you can consider it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90839	Thank you very much. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90840	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, what falls into the eyes of the Household Law proposal in this introductory section is about the HIV-positive child's accommodation fee which is significantly higher than for pre-school and school-aged children, more than 15 years ago, this is one stain in Croatian history regarding two HIV-positive girls. So, HIV positive children who are on therapy are safer than children who are not HIV positive for infection and I think that this is one of the remains and absolutely no need, it would be good to have child benefits as large as possible, but I think this kind of disproportionate is financially unnecessary. This may have been necessary 15 years ago, but at this point HIV positive children should have all the same rights as other children and I think it should be considered not to be such a big difference because it goes in favour of the stigmatisation of HIV positive children who thank God in the Republic of Croatia do not have much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90841	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90842	I thank and completely...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90843	Madam Minister, I must give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90844	Oh, I'm sorry. Here, I apologize for my haste. I agree with your arguments and your thinking that there's no need to go through with anyone else. However, you must know that the foster parents today, we found it really hard to find back then, but we still want to stimulate the foster parents. We put this as one of, one of let's say the diagnosis is certainly a specialized foster care is directed at other seriously ill children or children who need really specialized forms of support and needs, but what I will certainly emphasize in this debate is always seen the health condition of the child, his needs as well as the ability and ability of the foster parent.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90845	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Mrs. Petrievcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90846	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister with an associate. It certainly needs to be commended for this Law because indeed this issue and the meaning of foster care has not so far been given the real swing that should be given, which should be given in the Republic of Croatia because it is not always and the only purpose of fostering unfortunately was the human and empathy of wanting to help children. This bill has recognized it and I am very pleased and this is one delicate, delicate job that not everyone can do, it needs certain skills, knowledge and qualities of people and it is recognized by this Law and it is very nice to me, and as I say, the Law is positive. However, in your discussion on the board, you too pointed out, it is necessary to strengthen inspection and supervision of foster parents so as not to involve abuses that occurred, unfortunately in previous years, and that this positive law does not have any negative connotations. That's why I'm appealing to this... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90847	Thank you very much. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90848	Here, I'm glad you recognized that the Law was going in a positive direction and what must have been on the trail of what you said, when we wrote the Law, when we passed it, we were thinking about how much we were in the Ministry and in the inspection services, but also in these bodies, second-degree complaints departments actually very disabled. We have in this proposal all the obligations as well as then in some way control, and we have given responsibility to social care centres with the aim of strengthening them, although from this debate we will see, and perhaps until the second reading, this stronger inspection supervision that is necessary not only because of this Law, but also otherwise in providing services on the ground, to really prevent and abuse, but also to get at the quality of law enforcement even differently regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90849	Thank you very much. Mrs. Josic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90850	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with an associate. I personally welcome the Household Act because you have made this Law a significant step and have allowed the foster parents to enter the labour market in some way, and I believe that I also have much better care for the users themselves who were in the institutions until then. As you have provided this Law with a new kind of foster care, specialized foster care, I would like to know if you have the number of children who are currently in such foster care or similar care and how many such children should be fostered or as regards specialised foster parents, how their education, training and the choice of specialised foster parents will be conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90851	Thank you, too. The answer, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90852	Thank you. We clearly had 30 children in the projection, and hence foster parents who would need to provide such specialized foster care. As well as the situation on the ground and needs, and any law and resources in the budget will be modified and modified. We've put in a specialized foster parent's terms, ready, and additional education will be conducted by teams. The one in general, we said that we would work with all stakeholders through UNICEF, and that education, individually with specialised foster parents, will be in line with the needs of the child, which is located there and we will clearly work on it, to obtain the necessary knowledge, whether health or other experts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90853	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90854	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, Minister. As you have represented the law and in the comments of this law it is very clear to read, that you have predicted that you have secured the quality and implementation of this law provided for the employment of new professional workers in welfare centres. Since the situation on the ground is such that the lack of professional workers, I ask you by number to tell us here, how many professional workers are, now, missing at social care centres. How do you think, because even now they fail to carry out all their obligations, which is visible, and therefore, what they fail to even, they haven't yet managed to bring all the solutions to personal disability. So, how do you solve this problem, complete the number you need so far, and then how will you hire new ones?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90855	The answer, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90856	Respected MPs and respected colleagues. If you're following the state of social care, then you can see that only within two years of this government being taken over, and we're the ministry of 95 social workers, we've hired them, they're like two major centres, right in welfare centers. And also, that we have worked seriously, by amending the regulation and with a well-arranged collective agreement, to improve the material situation, our employees in the social care system, and in particular, you have followed this, social workers in the social care centre, and also in the employment plan, we also foresee further employment. For the purposes of this law, it is estimated whether we will employ at least 20 professional workers in the centres or for the purpose of some inspection services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90857	Thank you. And in the end, Mrs. Glavak, I apologize. I skipped you, my apologies, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90858	Thank you very much, forgive me. Dear Madam Minister, I, when I read the law, and when I look at the move towards the last amendments and the addition of the Household Act to 2011 and then from 2012 recognises the flexibility of this law and would say the adjustment of the time in which we live, and especially with that, which is the emphasis of the law among other things on the deinstitutionalisation of children and adults located in institutions. Especially when we talk about children, we are clear and we all know that housing or at least it should be clear, that putting a child in an institution is the last possible option, and in this sense I believe that this law will enable and motivate the increase of the number of foster families, these more by introducing categories of foster care as an occupation, therefore, as a profession, but also, what I consider to be an extremely important regional distribution, accessibility of foster care, therefore, the expansion of the network throughout Croatia. Because we know by statistics that we have the most foster families in the continental part of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90859	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90860	Thank you. This law is, in fact, the law of the National Reform Programme and a lot of what you have made known from your replica, which is that we have an obligation to regional, evenly, accessible and social services, but also social benefits, which we really do not, do precisely demographic images of the Republic of Croatia. It is one thing, the other, also, if we say that we are going to give foster care that it can be an occupation, then it is the same form of self-employment, especially in those parts, in which it is scarcely possible to look for some new or more quality forms of work, which our citizens might want to do. And certainly deinstitutionalization, preventing accommodation in an institution, when we can't get into residential communities, then foster care means a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90861	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. And now really Mrs. Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, comparative advantages are known in relation to housing in homes or in foster homes. But what I'm curious about is whether this will be enough and if we can still think about someone improved, to get to the so-called. Social entrepreneurship, for example in some Scandinavian countries, is much better developed. As an illustration, I will cite, for example, some better, tradition, foster families, for example, with me in Međimurje or very bad, as my colleague Babic says. Why are such differences in this way and why people do not recognise the possibility given to them and whether, besides UNICEF's campaign, government or ministry level, or all of us together can help the Parliament and the representatives, to bring this vision and employment closer to people, and, of course, to the ultimate goal of, the users of these services, to make it as easy and more comfortable for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90863	Thank you, too, yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90864	Thank you. That we have what we have always pointed out in tradition, that simple foster care is very much represented, that we have many foster parents and clearly, so far the only possible are traditional or related. Most of all, in Zagreb County and the surrounding Zagreb, I see in Međimurje, it was obviously left until the 1900 tradition when it started, where people had, however, because of the fields, because of agriculture, the possibility of eating and themselves, as well as the foster parents themselves. Because the fees weren't always so generous, they weren't now, but there wasn't maybe as much in the way they are now, and that's what we're assuming this one tradition was created. This law has the task of mobilizing and taking an interest in other environments, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to really enable children, family life, as little institutions as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90865	Thank you very much. Now one notice to the MPs and the MPs. Tomorrow, on Thursday, July 5th, after discussing the points foreseen for the debate, due to a large number of amendments, it will join a statement on amendments to the final draft law, amending and supplementing the House Rental Act. Now let's first ask if, you want me to read it again? Dear MPs and MPs, one notice, tomorrow, July 5th, after we discuss the points foreseen for the debate, due to a large number of amendments, will be approached by a statement of amendments, a final proposal for the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on Rent of Apartments. We're going to the boards now. Would one of the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, I don't. Okay. I open the debate, Mrs Ines Strenja Linic first came forward, in front of the Independent List Bridges Club. Here you go, ma'am... -Strenja Linic, I'm sorry, I've cut short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90866	... Another representative, the minister and her advisor and MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] Today, the Household Act is before us, and I think because of my long experience as a foster parent, as an urban foster home, because I took a girl when she was 5 years old today, she's a girl who goes to 8th grade. I think I know this area well, and I'd like to tell you, a few things that I think should be included in the law anyway. So fostering children is the most appropriate alternative form of family care for children who cannot live in their own families. So I welcome the accession of this new law and the ministry's efforts to address child care needs in this way. However, in total looking at this draft, I think certain improvements and corrections should be made. To begin with, I think the law should have been divided into two parts. If we haven't decided on two laws, and that's the complete section of things are fostering children and fostering adults. This is because these services are so different in terms of the duration of the accommodation, as they are usually long-term accommodation for older people, practically to the death of the person, and unlike children, as well as the competences and special conditions in the foster home are different, depending on the user groups, especially with specialised foster parents. We also believe that the new Social Care Act should be adopted first, redefine, label social services, relieve the Social Care Centre from administrative procedures, currently means 150 different procedures are being conducted in each centre, possible services that they are actually performing and enable them to deal with professional affairs and case-keeping, and to encourage the transformation of institutions into centres for providing social services in the community. In this way, systematic preconditions would be created, and for professional support in foster care, a lack which, according to our experience, is a major obstacle to the expansion of foster care, the drop in number of foster parents and the improvement of quality of care for users. So today we've heard, and counsellor Glavak needs a promotion. But promotions can't do associations. So we have a forum for foster care, we have different associations, all over Croatia, alone, that sort of manages and educates within their community, that's not enough. It must be systemically and organised. It can't happen that my association, which I belong to, Dam home, from the Primorian Mountain County, where 36 foster parents, are mostly urban foster parents, and have their own children come to Krk from which no child is fostered in any family in Krk and that for the first time comes, someone from the social care center and listens about the foster care we have as a layman, we talk about how to host and what is the procedure. Someone who comes from the center, so they're the ones who need to be in charge of education or someone to whom they're going to transfer it, which is agencies. Furthermore, this draft gives even stronger powers to social care centres, which are already overloaded and lack the capacity to carry out quality and timely public powers and other professional tasks, which is contrary to multiple announcements of their disbursements. The introduction of specialised foster care institutions should therefore be considered, at least at regional level, which would carry out continued professional support to fosterers and take over certain powers of the social care centre issuing household permits, their renewal, the keeping of records, registers, and supervision of foster families. And it can't happen that I as a foster parent, the first week I took a 5-year-old girl she takes a bike and breaks her arm and I try to get in with a social worker who's in charge of me, to say that she broke her arm, that they ask me what I'm informing them about. So it could have happened that a child was abused and it broke his arm, I thought it was my duty to inform them because I'm not even the guardian of that child, it's the same thing that needs to be changed in the new law, so the foster parent is not the guardian of the child, and that's what we actually see that foster families aren't under the same supervision that they're supposed to be under. So it can't happen that a foster family once a year visits a social worker and psychologist with a previous announcement, should not be announced without being in school, in kindergarten to ask what's wrong with that child, that would be their obligation, to come in, to make records, it goes to court, and for a year it is extended to foster care. There are the biggest problems of those who actually stay hidden. The emphasis should be on professional supervision to prevent the violation and the threat of the rights of located users and forgive me, I am primarily talking about children. A special story is fostering older people. I'm based, my exposure is on children. And the elderly, and based on the Ombudsman's report for people with disabilities, you will see, even considered that fostering it is not a good way to care at all, because these people are fostered, in fact becoming practically family homes where these people can't in any way satisfy everything they need or have real contact with the environment or are allowed to be and participate in this kind of life in their community, their phones are taken away, they can't always leave when they need a doctor, etc., so they're simply put into some foster family without any supervision. Of course, I also questioned on the board whether it was possible to change that in some way, the only solution to change that, that the authority of professional supervision over these families would be brought down from the ministry to the county level. I'm talking about family centers, foster families, and I'm not sure I'm also going to visit more suddenly a year, which is absolutely too small. Okay, the law is ahead of us and we can just say that his intensity is to expand the circle of foster parents, good. And this, as we can see, will still be done in a way to ensure better legal status than they have so far, we welcome, which, with traditional foster care, should be motivated by new, younger and more educated foster parents. In doing so, it should be kept in mind that this form of foster care does not become recognizable primarily because of the achievement of work and compulsory insurance fees rather than being persons with the necessary skills and competences. So we know that there are a little less foster parents with higher education than those with secondary education, and I don't think we should look at it, I'm going to say in which article I think we should change it, to education than to the competences of that person because we can't say that one nurse or one physiotherapist or someone who's otherwise had some kind of education in this one medical sense, had some sort of psychological preparation and worked for such persons in their environment and that he couldn't care and professionalize his foster care or take care of himself as a specialised foster parent. So, as part of my assessment of the situation, I think it's important to point out the following. So, foster care as a long-term accommodation is not in line with the child's well-being and interests especially if it's a child under the age of seven. Because parallel development and conditions are necessary but also faster return of the child to the biological family or adoption. Once again, I would like to emphasise the absolutely unacceptable possibility for children to be separated from the biological family because of poverty but also for too long the duration of the separation and withdrawal procedures. It can't be that for 10 years, parents who just dialed their parents on the phone or maybe I don't know how they saw that child very, very rarely. We have the law that it should be three months. At my thematic session when we talked about adopting children, a very high-quality thematic session where there were people working with it every day, one judge said that her phone call to her home and interest in her child, is not enough to indicate that she cares for that child and that she will make a decision there to take away parental care but the case law is not uniform. And then you have from year to year repeating the situation that the child stays in the home, that the child doesn't go into foster care or foster care, years go by, the child is older, which is older, which will be harder to adopt, and actually that parent never thought to take it back and integrate it and create a classic family. So, I think it is necessary to re-emphasise the longevity of court proceedings by delaying and permissive approach towards biological parents who are long-term and rudely neglecting or abusing a child and the child remains blocked in the system and has been placed in foster care or home for years. Thus, opportunities for the permanent provision of a child’s right to live in a family or adoption are missed. In addition, it is generally known that a child who welcomes adulthood in a foster family, in too many cases, has no prospects and living conditions for a independent life after getting out of care. At the same time, appropriate measures have not been taken in due time for biological parents to deprive parental care, so the child not only cannot return to his biological family but can continue to abuse the child at his adult age by biological parents. So we had cases that no parental care was taken away, the child was in the foster home and then that child with her age comes into the situation that he owed for the money his parent owed him. I personally had such an example of a colleague, who was for a while even the president of the association, who had a hard time proving to be in fact that this 19-year-old boy who is now 19 did not owe some of what I know 20.30,000 euros in the beginning of his life when he graduated from high school. His parents, or his father, made that huge debt. Therefore, we propose that foster care for children is also defined as temporary accommodation which will contribute to the dynamicisation of the system and measures to protect the rights and welfare of children. This naturally requires harmonisation of the regulatory framework relating to alternative care for children. So how many children are located in homes of child rearing and youth with behavioral problems and how many children with developmental difficulties are not heard today, and these are children who can go into foster families. How many children from 0 to 7 years of age are located in children's homes without adequate parenting, and how much in homes for children with developmental disabilities, I am interested in the data. I have my information. In terms of inter-resorship cooperation, it would be important to include data on the number of children in certain health institutions, for example. Gornja Bistra Hospital and for some children according to the assessment of needs and difficulties could also provide care for the foster family instead of permanent hospitalisation or institutionalisation. Also from the presentation of the data that we actually saw in the preamble of this law, it is not clear whether an analysis of the overall needs for foster care in certain areas of the county is being carried out, which would also provide the basis for planning the development of a particular type of foster care and projection of the necessary funding. Therefore, I also believe that in a separate chapter, the procedures for assessing selection and licensing of foster parents and monitoring of quality of care in foster families as well as the mechanisms for initial and continuous education and support for foster families should be defined. I'll just look back at a few articles right now, and then I'll continue in my debate later. However, as regards Article 3, it is said that as a beneficiary of foster care, I consider it necessary to add: “and a younger person who has been at a home for children who would have been able to stay until the end of regular schooling and up to 26 years, as arranged in a similar way, in Article 24(2). The social care law." Therefore, such a provision would prevent the homelessness of young people who were most concerned by the state or state institutions from doing so. No small number of examples is that, therefore, the Roses of St. Francis in Rijeka receive only men's persons, to end up there boys who, after leaving foster homes, have nowhere to go. There are good examples, I'm talking about my territory, so you'll understand me better, you can all see it in your cities, in Crikvenica it's a great deal done. The mayor has provided several apartments there where children from the House of Selce who have passed through the home, so they have stayed in contact with their social workers, can be placed after being old and leaving foster families. But there are few such cities, and I don't think it should depend solely on the well-being of local leaders. Therefore, it is known that children’s homes users, at the age of 20, or after 21 years of age, stop staying in a home for children or in a residential community and are often left to themselves and end up homeless. Therefore, in the Annual Report to the Croatian Parliament, Pučka Ombudsman also wrote about this problem and recommended that accommodation be prescribed in organised housing for young people from alternative care after 21 years. We now have the most common situation to go directly from home to those apartments, but not from foster families. I'd also like to draw attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90867	I'm sorry, we're over. We're way past the clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90868	Okay. Thank you very much. I'll continue in my debate. I think we should talk about this. There are a lot of aspects to be processed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90869	But now I really have to hang up. I apologize to the others I interrupted. [[Strenja-Linić's Intruder: Thank you very much.]] My bad. Mrs. Ljubica Maksimchuk in front of the HDZ Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90870	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Household Act whose purpose is to provide care and support to the user in a stimulating and positive environment in accordance with its individual change plan. Although fostering in the Republic of Croatia has been a long tradition since 1902, the legal status of foster parents has not been resolved so far, and homes for carefree children are full of young people waiting for the warmth of the family home. And as we wait for the adopted years, the number of foster families from year to year is getting smaller. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, in accordance with the National Reform Programme of 2017 and the National Reform Programme 2018, was obliged to draw up a draft law on foster care. The first question to be asked, why did it approach the draft of this law? The reason is that there is still not enough number of foster families and their uneven spread in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In some areas of foster families there is no or negligible number at all, while on the other hand, in some areas such as Zagreb County, Varazdinska and Međimurska the number of foster families is more important than the needs of children in the area, which is why children from other parts of the country are being placed there, which leads not only to difficult adjustment, but also makes it difficult to maintain a relationship with biological families and relatives because the parents of the fostered children are usually not deprived of parental care. It is necessary to improve foster care in the entire country. The problem is also the age group of adopters as well as the level of education. More than half of the registered foster parents are over 55 years old, and almost 30% of the foster parents have completed primary education or have no primary school. Families of younger age and higher education as potential foster parents are in constant decline. And why foster status is not attractive, motivated by new younger and more educated foster parents, there is more reason. Despite the fact that in their homes care for persons in need for a long period of years, foster parents do not have settled pension and health insurance. They have no right during unemployment as an employee according to special regulations. Thereafter, they have not resolved insurance as other social services providers of accommodation or adequate work compensation. According to statistical reports in 2016, 2,342 users are located in foster families for children and young people, and 4.459 users are located in foster families for adults and older people. At the same time, 864 children are located in children’s homes without adequate parental care. 3,049 foster families for children and youngsters of whom 505 foster families have the status of relatives and 1,557 foster families for adults and elderly persons of whom 220 have the status of relatives. The adoption of a new household law will ensure the deinstitutionalisation of children and adults who are in the institution and improve the quality of care services in foster families independently of the user group. The new law opens up a new possibility of carrying out foster care as an occupation of unemployed foster parents and provides specialised foster care as an interest in providing children with the most difficult difficulties and the need for the highest level of support of users of this service with the appropriate compensation for the work of foster parents. The implementation of traditional and related foster care would continue to exist and benefits would also be increased for the work and efforts made to care for the users of all foster parents and would be paid as an interest in the remuneration and contributions of compulsory insurance. Therefore, the adoption of this law will ensure the prevention of the institutionalisation of children and adults, then deinstitutionalisation of children about adults who are located in institutions, improvement of quality of service to care for foster families independently of the user group. The number of foster families will increase, regional equality will take place in terms of the accessibility of foster care. Hostage will be established as an interest in unemployed foster parents, capacity building and providing better conditions to carry out specialised foster care for children. Enhancing compensation for the work of foster parents and paying compulsory insurance to foster parents as an occupation under a special regulation. The host will commit to a higher degree of education, provide the foster parents with a higher level of support to which social care centres, social care homes, community services centres, associations, religious communities and other legal and physical persons providing the family's professional assistance services will be included. In order to enable all of this to be achieved, a greater number of users in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia have been provided with increased financial resources compared to the previous period by 2 million kuna. As a compensation for the accommodation service of the foster home in 2018, funds amounting to € 183 million were provided and the same amount was secured in 2019 and 2020. The implementation of this law will allow 300 to 400 unemployed foster parents who will carry out foster care as an occupation to have secured, increased work compensation of 2,500 kuna and paid compulsory contributions. The same amount of compensation will be provided for traditional foster parents when fostering three children or four adults. The increase in compensation will increase by a proportion of the number of householders, and for the performance of specialised foster care, it is planned to include a smaller number of service providers for the most difficult customer group of children who will be provided with an increased work fee of between 5 and 6 and half thousand kuna. In 2018, funds were provided in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia amounting to nearly 46 million kuna. The same amount is also secured for 2019 and 2020, which is an increase of nearly 13 and a half million kuna compared to the previous period. Although love and care for children do not have a price, regulation of the right would also give the foster parents the security they deserve. The current foster home in Croatia traditionally, the foster parents receive compensation for the costs of children of 1,800 kuna for preschool children, and from 2011 and compensation of 400 to 700 kuna for themselves, but do not receive salaries or pay them contributions. Many, then, when they turn 65 and stop being foster parents, have no income at all. So, for example. You've got a woman who raised 40 kids, and she ended up living on welfare. Or do you have an example of a lady fostering five biological children already, and with five biological children she's been fostering for ten years, she's currently taking care of her husband for three children, and as an unemployed person, such professionalization would mean a lot to her because she'd gained employment rights. This example is only one of the many that needs to be regulated. It is not good for children to stay in their homeland in the long term because quality family care for child development is irreplaceable. I am sure that this change can increase the interest of fostering and that this will result in a series of positive effects that will also reflect the whole picture on the issue of foster care. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this Bill with several observations that we should consider until the second reading, which is Article 6(1), means that the age-limit between foster parents, the foster child should be less than 18 years in relation to family families, or family foster parents. Because in this way, a brother could never foster a brother’s sister or sister if the difference between them was less than 18 years old. Also in Article 32(2), the termination of foster care means the death of the foster parent after, there should be by law if only the death of the foster parent a solution is not to whom to deliver and in obligations means the centres of Article 37 and 38 of the control already spoken of by the predecessors to... for one team dealing with the control of these foster families, but it does not only work control. He's in the centres doing all the other jobs, so here's what it means for the minister, but also for us to try to secure more money in the budget so that the centres can hire teams that would exclusively work on the control of foster families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90871	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Dragana Jeckov's turn in front of the SDSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90872	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Madam Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and deputies. So, we have before us a bill on foster care that I believe should have been found 10 years ago, if not more, precisely because foster care is a form of concern outside of my own family, which, in this case, provides a child or an adult with accommodation and care in a foster family. Householding is recognised as the most qualitative form of care as natural and humane compared to accommodation in an institution. Householding is based on the principles of the family environment, the sustainability of social ties and the involvement of the user himself. The foster family accepts the user as their member. The user gets a sense of belonging and therefore, in recent times, tends to house the users right in the foster home. Householding is therefore a noble decision, and it should be clearly pointed out, but it is also extremely responsible that changes and touches many lives. That is why it is very important to make such a decision with a very thoughtful mindful view of all that foster care is actually making. The opportunity is referred to the Ombudsman’s report for children, which also repeatedly points to the exceptional importance of raising a child in a family environment, calling for numerous international and domestic documents. So by ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the State has taken the obligation to ensure that the child is not separated from its parents against their will, unless this separation is necessary in the best interests of the child, and then it is necessary to provide the child with replacement care. Also, I agree with Mrs Strenja-Linic because I believe that poverty should by no means be that element which will lead to the separation of the child from the family. According to the UNICEF publication fostering children in Croatia, fostering the most common women aged 51, 52 are secondary education and most often with foster care according to some statistics starts at 42 years of age, and the most common motive is the desire to help someone. According to ministry data, 3 thousand 49 foster families were registered in Croatia last year, which is a thousand 492 foster families for children and youth of whom 505 foster families have the status of relatives and a thousand 557 foster families for adults and elderly persons of whom 220 have the status of relatives. According to the number of foster families, the City of Zagreb is ahead, and then the largest number of foster families for children is in Osijek-Baranja County. The minimum number of foster parents for children is in Lika-Senjska, Krapina-Zagorska, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska. This is not said in order to qualify some as not good enough foster parents, but simply to work on the fact that foster care is being extended in a certain way and that there is such a more even distribution across the Republic of Croatia. In the Republic of Croatia annually, around 3,000 children do not live with their biological families and social care centres to separate children from the primary family environment for the most common reasons of abuse, neglect, abandonment or other risky reasons and accommodation them in foster families, homes for children or SOS children's villages. Children remain so placed month, two, year, three, five or 18, or until the 18th year of life. In some areas there are more places than the user, and in others there are almost no foster parents, and the nursing households that there is no one to care about are actually the most, but this is therefore a special topic. And a characteristic example is that the number of foster parents decreases in smaller environments and, according to one of the older foster parents, we are all more than 65 years old, after which we can no longer deal with fostering children, and young people are not. It is obvious that there is a need to promote foster care to a greater extent and to change the way of funding because so far the fees have been very low and amounted to between 1,000 and 2,000 kunas for the stay of children in institutions, for the stay of children in foster homes, and in institutions the monthly cost could range from 8 to 15 thousand kuna. So now that this ratio is made, it's clear that foster care is actually much more economical. Furthermore, given the fact that there is a significant lack of foster parents, i.e. the clear need to increase the number of foster parents, I believe that there is a need to significantly expand the circle of persons who may have foster status. I note that it is omitted to state that life partners can also be foster parents because the Life Partnership Act is a lex specialis in relation to the laws relating to family-law relations and should therefore also be designated as foster parents. The Ombudsman also pointed out the problems of foster care for children with developmental difficulties, given the lack of foster families for children with developmental difficulties, given the lack of foster families for children with disabilities. Also, for the purpose of returning children, it is also said that the need for help is for the return of children to the family, grandparents to regulate personal relations with grandchildren and foster parents who are no longer able to care for children in view of the specific needs of children. Also, in her report, the Ombudsman addressed the issue and changes in the foster family for the purpose of disrupting, in cases of violations of relations with foster parents. The introduction of professional foster care or the pursuit of foster care as an occupation of wages and labour rights is considered motivated for young people. In particular, we find it motivated when it comes to fostering children with behavioral problems, children victims of domestic violence and children at high risk of separation from biological families who need temporary accommodation, and that it will be professionals who will receive wages for their job and have all the rights of employment but, as it is pointed out here, it should not be the only basis why someone wants to be foster because it would then only have the wrong connotation. The decision to introduce professional foster care as a form of care, to seek to revive and encourage foster care because the data show that due to the process of deinstitutionalisation of homes, in homes, there are actually fewer children. At the same time, there is no growing number of foster parents, creating long-term waiting lists in children’s homes, and a growing finding of accommodation for children who are at risk of life or health in the biological family. These are all reasons why foster care should become almost commonplace. In addition to keeping and performing a traditional and related model of foster care with increased work and effort, we also welcome. New legal solutions should allow for an increase in the number of foster families, improve the quality of care services in foster families. That is why we find this new legal framework and the legal arrangement of this area very welcome. However, we also suggest that infringements also clearly define the provisions of sanctions and social care centres that do not comply with the law because there are opportunities for abuse of powers and positions and possible manipulation. I also believe that special attention should be paid to the control of the entire fostering process, i.e. to ensure greater supervision which will guarantee an adequate level of quality of the foster home. And that, of course, is also the subject which has been discussed in a report by the Ombudsman, and he mentioned, therefore, that very often the foster parents who have been sued for the lack of professional support, the messy tours, and these are all the facts that should be dealt with in a special way and made sure that they are eliminated as such. Anyway, with our suggestion here, we welcome the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90873	Thank you, too. He will now speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club one representative and one representative. She's Mrs. Alfirev, and then in the second part, she's going to reach out and continue Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90874	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister with an associate. So here is the Household Law in the first reading. Well, first of all, I want to say that we really welcome the government's intensities, the ministry, to better address the working and material status of foster parents through this law. And that's really the fact that it brings some good things, let's say it's good that it wants to better regulate this area which is extremely sensitive, which is still with a lot of problems, which is not sufficiently represented and that's good intention. It is a good thing that besides traditional foster care, foster care is also introduced as an occupation. And it came about as a reaction to the real situation, to the real need, and it would really be better if it had been solved a long time ago, maybe we'd already have a better situation. It's a good thing you're introducing specialized foster care as a profession. Hoping that there will be increased interest in exactly what is wanted, which is that it becomes an occupation and that there will be people who want to do it. However, by analysing the bill itself, it is concluded that not enough has been done to ensure that this is done in a quality manner only in the area. We think it's actually very, very risky to assume just this form of motivation. So, only this form of motivation is a monetary and working relationship in terms of improving one and the other for foster care. Because we have to admit the foster care doesn't last eight hours, it doesn't last six hours, it lasts 24 hours, it lasts 365 days a year. To present to us the law, however, something has not been done, which you promised us. The fundamental law has not been settled, and this is the Social Care Act. We expected this, you announced that you would come up with a new social care law and that it would be done after one good analysis of all social services, analysis of the social services network, the need for users. But as far as we can tell, it wasn't done. It wasn't even done in this assessment of the situation, and it wasn't even done it's a simple fact. That's why we actually have to ask the question. Based on what indicators did you come up with a proposal for this law? What are the indicators? On the basis of which polls do you have the belief that there will be more foster parents if material and working status is regulated? Based on what indicators have you come up with data that people with high professional training will opt for specialized foster care? Was that done in the field? Any of those indicators? I don't know. Where do you want to develop foster care? That's the key question. You're talking about this coming to regional equality. How? What are the indicators? Do you, did someone say that? I don't know. Here in Dalmatia throughout the coast is difficult, so far it is not since foster care is in Croatia, in Dalmatia it is not, for several reasons it is unlikely. If it were different, I think something different would probably be different. Will the arrangement of material and labour status be a miracle? Are we going to have an increase now? And I'm not sure, unless some stronger steps may be made in terms of stronger promotions, stronger additional motivations, additional efforts to invest precisely to promote foster care. As far as I know in Dalmatia we actually have a very common situation that families that have, say, extra living space actually use it for tourism. And that's a real fact, that's the truth. So it seems to us that after two years, after a year and a half, as far as you're in power, you haven't done enough. The fact is, you really don't have a complete analysis. And without analysis, the solutions offered can hardly be good and guarantee quality. It seems to me that you're bringing us back, bringing us a partial solution, and I'm afraid of the bad consequences that I can have if we don't take care of possible critical situations. We do not think that such a household law will really meet the purpose as you have said, and you have said that this law would prevent institutionalisation, deinstitutionalise the users of social care institutions, increase the number of foster families and, most importantly, improve the quality of care services to foster families. Yes, I will repeat, it was really necessary to pass a new social care law, redefine and refresh social services not only of foster care but also of all other services, to relieve social care centres from administrative procedures. And we've already agreed that before, you haven't done that. To enable them to deal with professional affairs, case-keeping and thus to actually encourage the transformation of institutions into community social services centres. You didn't do that. So that's how we would actually have constitutional preconditions for professional support in foster care. This way I'm afraid hard. What are the problems in spreading foster care, and what is the reason for the decline in the number of foster parents? That's the question to answer. What about the duration of foster care? Do we want here as permanent accommodation or what is really the primary feature of foster care to be short-term, temporary? We don't want foster care to be until the age of a person. Or is this the law we really want? Do we want foster care to last all the time? What are the reasons that foster parents really last until their adulthood? We also have the commendation of foster parents to really get out of the foster family of girls, boys getting married. Is that the point? So these are the principles and fundamental remarks that make us not exactly able to give the green light to this law. What else isn't good? The law's pretty sketchy, it's pretty superficial. This is seen in numerous remarks and comments to which the ministry has responded, that it will be respected when the final draft of the law is drawn up. There are 24 general comments, 267 comments on articles, of which 30 were accepted, 28 in part, for 40 you said you would consider when making the final law. It says on the one hand that it's good and that you're willing to accept the remarks that are going to fix the law. I therefore hope that you will respect the many remarks that will arise from this debate, but this also tells you that this law is not well prepared enough. Because the profession from different positions warns of a number of illogicalities and possible bad consequences in law enforcement. What else is in our law? Assess the situation, for example. You use expressions that aren't good, it's not good to talk, for example. the most difficult categories. And I hope that this will change in the preparation of the final proposal because today we are really using different terminology, not this way. We also hope that you will respect our observation that it is necessary for the whole law to be of the position of the user and to provide quality care for the person who is in the foster care. This law is actually aimed at the foster home. So we want and so we want to actually raise the quality of foster care and its availability from the user's perspective and it has to be primary. Now you need it in this part I'll still speak before my colleague Bauk says his own, necessary means. There's something I said at the beginning in the replica, the increase in the number of users is actually inconsistencies with not increasing the number of experts and that's a fact. I'm really interested in the fact that, as far as I can tell, you didn't predict in the budget how many new experts of the welfare center will be employed. And if we want to do everything you've said now, I want to know where it is, if you've predicted it. I'm afraid given the current situation, regardless of the figures you said that it wasn't enough and that it would come to an extremely high burden on the system itself, because already the centers are overloaded and there's nowhere else this law will not be able to implement because it's hard. I don't really see it in the budget. I don't see what this new job looks like. There's something written, however, that we're afraid is actually going to happen next, and that's what's happening right now that you're asking the principal to reorganize and actually let them get along in the field as well as they know and can. This law really brings a number of jobs and responsibilities to existing experts on the ground. And what we could ultimately say is that not that there will be a improvement in quality, but that there will be a reduction and a reduction in quality. In the very conditions, therefore, that is, in the kind of foster care, I will continue later and in individual terms that is what is missing. You are really here and through this you can see your orientation towards the service provider, which is the foster parent, and not to the users, you have thus defined the types of foster care. And what happened? How did the Bill of Law define the type of foster care through the status of the executioner and not through the needs of the users? And that's what's going through the whole law, and that's what's wrong because all of the conventions, all of the laws, all of our strategies are actually talking about being the primary, primary well-being of our users. That's what's key when we're making some law. Here, I'll stop there. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90875	We talked for two minutes. So, what I want to say on behalf of the Club is that we believe that the Household Act should leave neither a millimeter nor an even smaller measuring unit of space for persons who are in a life partnership to be discriminated over the possibility of fostering. And that is why we are asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I hope that the Minister will also show herself in post-club exposure about how in the second reading you will predict the status of persons who are in a life partnership, whether they as individuals or as couples will be discriminated when it comes to the possibility of foster care. That's not adoption, then. It is something that is the second institute of this, but as far as foster care is concerned, given that we have information that certain couples are already trying and that they are already stuck at the welfare centre to exercise the right to foster care, I would like to see the minister's testimony from both the government and some of the parliamentary majority parties put to the issue in the final draft of the law. So, once again, not a millimeter of the possibility of discrimination against persons living in a life partnership on foster care in the final draft of the law. Otherwise, we won't be able to support that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90876	Thank you, too. And now we're moving on to Voice and HSU Representatives' Club. A colleague of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. On behalf of the Voice and HSU Club, I would like to express firsthand the satisfaction that the ministry took this job after almost 3 years of announcement and waiting. I would like to remind you that the adoption of the new Household Act was in the programme of reform of the Government of Croatia in 2016. This intention has been transposed into plans in 2017 and 2018, and here is the whole sector of those who take care of children, those who gather foster parents, have been expecting this law for several years and now is an opportunity to talk about the draft or the variant in the first reading to exchange thoughts and come up with the best possible variant that will come into the second reading. In this sense, we want to be constructive, we want to contribute to improving the solution. One of the basic things that my government and the ministry are primarily one permanent concern about deinstitutionalisation when it comes to child care. And let me talk about this law, this proposal, first of all, about the rakurs taking care of children, not about older people at this hour. So, the key thing is to do everything to enable deinstitutionalization to be given a higher level, a quality level of care for children. First of all, through the empowerment of the family that children can stay in them, not to happen, or that as little as possible, situations in which children have to leave the family. Here I join those colleagues who have already apostrophe that the criteria of poverty would be absolutely inadmissible because if, according to this bill, it is possible to find 5 to 6 thousand kunas in addition to contributions to pension and health care persons who are fosterers, then we see no reason why such a same amount is not possible to provide for families from which children are singled out according to the principle of poverty. Because otherwise taking care of such a child costs far, far more, and the psychophysical, emotional, and every other development of that child that we don't talk about. It's a lasting consequence, then. Furthermore, we find it extremely important that the state is seriously concerned about the situation in those families where it is not possible to keep a child for a whole series of reasons that are listed as legal assumptions for taking custody. To the extent that the permanent incompetence of the family, or parents, is established, that care should be taken as soon as possible so that the right of custody can be passed on to those who are able to take care of the child. And not to put ourselves in the situation of a colleague named Strenja Linic, that the child must later in life assume the obligations of the biological parents who did not want, did not want or because of some objective circumstances they could take care of their own child but rejected him, and then at some age in the 20s and 30s they must take over the debt of their parents or seek life's care from them. And all those who took part in raising a child including in this particular case foster parents cannot be well cared for because the child is simply crucified between his biological parents who practically do not even know the new environment in which he grows up. And the third thing is foster care. The fourth of course is adoption as a permanent, quality solution to care for children who remain without their family. In this sense, the Government must take care of the whole policy, the whole of the solutions. When it comes to taking care of children, and that is, one meaningful, quality, and responsible approach that we can even call demographic restoration. What worries us is that despite the fact that this law has been announced for three years, it has been passed, practically prepared within an express deadline. Even the members of the extended expert committee who could not respond in the first stage of production could not ultimately gain insight into the text of this proposal unless they were physically admitted to the ministry. The law is that, I will remind her in a public debate over two hundred comments. A good part of these comments, the proposal hasn't been adopted at all. The public debate ended 15. The 6th report was published on 19th, and the 21st report was published. The 6th was already texted by the government. What worries us a little bit is the paradigm of this law. First of all, he takes foster parents, not children. So it doesn't come from a point that has to answer the question of what's best for a child, but how to improve the working conditions of the foster parent? It's not an irrelevant question, of course, but it can't be primary but simply after we settle this first. Householding is already a matter of concern until the age of 21 is of temporary character and must be defined by law as a temporary institute. It must not be treated as a permanent solution. Because that makes it impossible to make better solutions, to return to a biological family, or to adopt them. So that's the thing that needs to be fixed by one quality formulation until another reading. The purpose of the law as you state here in this proposal puts first the prevention of institutionalisation and deinstitutionalisation. We would be happy if from the proposed solutions in this law it would really be visible. But we don't see it. So, as you know from the Ministry's claim of preparing and proposing this law that a safe number of foster families will increase, especially where foster care is not extended, the first reaction was to the Association of Hosts of Split-Dalmatia County of one of the weakest who said she did not see from this law so that it could happen. Obviously, there are a whole series of measures, if you want the activities to be developed, so that foster care is recognized as something people decide on. I guarantee that 98% of the population in the Republic of Croatia knows nothing about foster care at all, they may have heard something, and they know nothing about it. Here's your proposal right away. Have the Ministry run a promotional campaign, design a propaganda flyer – What do you know about foster care? Did you know this, did you know that, these are the rights of foster parents, there are so many children who are in need of adequate accommodation. A state-owned company such as HEP every year sends letters to all households in the Republic of Croatia, you produce a flyer to be distributed by HEP to every household. Be assured that there will be people who will read it, who will be interested, who will call you, who will ask how they can get involved. At this time, we in the Republic of Croatia have 1492 foster families with 2,342 children at the accommodation, which means one and a half children per family. We have 864 children according to data from the Ministry itself who are in their homes. So we already know that there is a capacity for foster families who could now absorb all children from their homes in a slightly better approach. Why isn't that happening? It is something that the ministry must ask itself and all relevant services, including welfare centres. So we think that presenting this social problem, the phenomenon of whatever you want, and the challenges are extremely important, and that a promotional campaign of awareness-raising needs, so social care at this micro-level called the foster family, could help. It could help not only to care for existing children’s homes but also potentially potentially those that constantly appear as new cases because society is simply a living organism in which, unfortunately, negative situations occur that bring the family into such a position that the child has to be singled out or that the child is left without parents. In our proposal for a new Household Law, we also find it an extremely large failure to discriminate on life partners. I will remind you that in accordance with Article 37(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on the life partnership of the same sex, life partners are equal to marriage mates. In view of the fact that the Life Partnership Act is a person of the same sex lex specialis compared to the laws relating to family-law, life partners should also be referred to in Article 3(2). Household law. We also remind ourselves that the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality prohibit discrimination based on both marital and family status and sexual orientation. This situation, which is already in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, must also be respected in this law because protection of unequal behaviour is an integral part of the Constitution as well as of the European Convention to which the Republic of Croatia is signatories. I recall that long-term and extensive research has shown that there is no difference in the development of children raised by heterosexual or same-sex partners and that there is therefore no basis for limiting the rights of same-sex couples to the adoption process. The practice of a whole series of European countries speaks as well as the latest US surveys say that same sex couples adopt children 6 times more frequently than heterosexual couples and represent an extremely important resource to the state in child care without adequate parental care. If the possibility of fostering same-sex partners in the U.S. was now lifted, the state would have an annual damage of 130 million dollars. Which means that this is a very important foundation and in a social sense when it comes to the interests and needs of the state. The State should not restrict the same-sex partners or couples in the approach, the adoption process based on their sexual orientation, as the key criterion must be that they have passed all the necessary professional preparation and assessment of abilities as future foster parents. Those who are able to do so must not be discriminated against as heterosexual couples who are unable to pass those assessments cannot be fosterers. In a broader sense, of course, with a different procedure or adoptors. Therefore, knowing that there is a lack of foster parents in Croatian society versus a large number of children who are growing up in home accommodation, we appeal to the promoter to fix this text and include life partners in the category or even them together with all others who have the right access to foster care as a service provider. What we want to ask in the end is a foster parent as an occupation would have to have three children, but it is said that if a foster parent takes care of children with developmental difficulties, only one of the accommodation children can be a child with severe physical, intellectual, sensory or communication difficulties in development that determines the level of functioning that requires greater professional support. How do you figure out who's taking care of the kids? If we know that caring for only one child with severe physical difficulties is so demanding and complicated that it practically requires full family engagement. On the other hand, we would like to point out that there are no criteria for estimating foster care. We should ask what successful foster care means. Especially specialized foster care. Can we develop criteria, for example? that kids with behavioral problems successfully finished high school? And what if they're not? What if our own children do not finish high school successfully but with lower success? Will we be judged as bad parents for it? What happens to the people who belong to the proposal, the most difficult categories of users and we don't like that statement because this one is offensive, when for example. You're 18 years old? So, a whole series of questions that color can solve with the proposal of another reading, and we ministers, ask you to put forth extreme efforts to make the text in the second reading more acceptable, to meet the needs, not to define the existing state and to confuse it, but to put a step forward, to focus first on children and their needs and then to prescribe all these other elements that we particularly welcome in that work that finally defines and solves the status of the fosterer and their social position, thus valorised and by the state through certain quality fees. The only thing we don't know is how this income from pension and health insurance payments won't get into the tax base. Based on what? How do you imagine that because it's a citizens' walk? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90878	But we have to break up now, thank you. Five minutes as a proposing, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90879	Here, thank you, of course, that you might want to react to something that I think would go in the direction of clarification so that maybe in the debate, things wouldn't repeat themselves. I would just like to point out that it stands out all the time that this law went in favour of the foster parent, not this Household Act and regulated the rights and obligations of the foster parent. It is said that foster care is not known as a form of concern for users. If it is very well known as traditional custody, I see no reason why these forms should not be acceptable and citizens too, the more I said in the opening statement, and I think the assessment of the situation in the opening part of the law also states that the ministry is preparing for a comprehensive permanent and continuous campaign. What we consider to be both traditional and related, and especially because we go to specialized and foster care as an occupation, and there are significant financial resources from the state budget, we went to just stronger conditions and general conditions that the fosterer must have in order to exercise the right of the foster parent as an occupation. So she's preparing, and I agree that Representative Strena-Linić said that there are possibilities for some other preliminary professions that we can put into this law. But also if you followed the precise rights and obligations and indeed in several places we pointed out that our child is in focus, the child is a primary child, and then the user as his sole benefit that all these foster families must be suitable for the needs of the child and in that sense we should take care of the continuity of its development. But also about a foster family that will give him proper education, growth, and development. We also made it clear that the social care centre's obligations or those that would be controlled. It will not be that occasionally, once a year or not, a foster home will be visited, but in the first stage of housing more often. What is the criteria of a good foster parent or the enforcement of the obligation of the foster parent is prescribed in an individual plan that is tailored to the needs of the child, including professional workers, and fosterers, but also schools and even parents. Because not all of these children who are located are deprived of their rights, even those parenting parents are even more encouraged by contacts. What I might be able to point out is whether foster care is permanent, is not the goal of being parallel, and that's the same in this UNICEF project that works to empower its own family more than I really have to say that the centres don't put those children who are poor in foster care, but if they have any other reason not to have the conditions for their growth and development in their family. What you've been saying to counsel, about three children, one is difficult and the other two are not. It's not working... about children who have more weight and... are more specific forms of help than about those who have some weight, therefore, not severe damage. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I must admit that what I would like to say now, and I will report more, it is difficult for me to believe that from the position of the profession a process that goes in favour of promoting the strengthening of one form of care for our users is being humiliated. And it's very hard for me to listen and I've never gone to what you didn't do as a minister. So, this law has been in the drawer since 2012, and I agree that it would have been more and more if it had happened before, and now I really have to say as it has been with the Law on Psychotherapy, which has been standing in ministry drawers for 17 years, etc. Of course this is the first reading. Clearly, like the Law of Psychotherapy, we were inclined to correct ourselves with the goal of not our ego or our needs but for the needs of the users.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90880	Thank you, Madam Minister. Thank you. You have three replicas. Mrs. Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90881	The Honorable Minister has a lot of questions, so I'd like to ask you one more time to answer me. Do you feel that foster parents need to be given custody of foster children? To repeat, a foster child is not a foster parent. Most often the guardian is one of the lawyers, sometimes a social worker who doesn't even know about the child and who, if it's an operational procedure, goes on a field trip and has to give such things special approval. Therefore, it would be necessary to regulate by law that the foster parent is also the guardian of that child, because otherwise, except in emergency situations when no one is responding, but the child is driven directly to the hospital and has an emergency surgery, the foster child must not even send the child for example clamping ears or such things. So it's just a guardian who doesn't know a child at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90882	Thank you. These were really thinking, and when we talked about it clearly prescribed by the Family Law, what we think exists clearly and depending on the individual needs of the child and individual situations, but we fully agree that because the foster parent has to look for parents, especially parents with whom he has bad contact or no contact for banality such as going on a trip and that's something that needs to be regulated by regulations, but it's not in foster care. Caring is clearly something prescribed by other laws, but it should also be seriously considered. Every law needs to be developed, it is a living document and harmonised with both needs and in practice it is verified and valorised and everything that is not good can be changed is not because it is a miracle that there are numerous amendments and additions to the law, and the Social Care Act that we will bring in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90883	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90884	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, as a representative of the opposition, I have the right to really talk about what is not right and to look back at every article or every thing that I think is not good, no matter what has happened before or what has ever happened. And now, I'd like to tell you again when we talk about quality, that's what you mentioned again, quality. If you only work with the Social Care Centro, if you have all the powers at the Social Care Centre, then be sure if you give the Centre and the role of whoever educates, who supervises, who takes care of the family, you can't give it either to that same man and the role of supervision. Because it doesn't work with each other. And there's a problem or a key to quality, there's what's the problem, and there's a need to make some moves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90885	Thank you. Would you like to answer? No, good. And finally, Mr. Richemberg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90886	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, at 1,500 or slightly less families who are fostering children at this time, I wish there were at least 700 families alike on hold. Which would mean that the story of fostering is really popular and that people really know what it means. I know, you say it's traditional and related, but only in some parts and only partially, only limited. If we had a register of 500 or 1,000 families who are interested in meeting all possible criteria at this time, we would have solved more than half of the hours of children in homes. And we don't have that. So don't understand when you're called to common thinking and work as a doctor or wiser. Parliament is tasked with turning everything you bring 48 times to make it better. I'm told in Dalmatia, a man and cargo know more than a man. So the minister and parliament know more than just the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90887	Thank you very much. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90888	Here are the MPs, the minister and the cargo and everyone together. So, I'm not closed to reporting for replicas you had just now, I followed the opening statement, so it's said, you were, the MPs had objections that the government's representative wasn't responding to replicas. So, I answer to the replicas and I explain what we put on and what I think. It is clear that the law will be fully passed as parliament wishes. I represent him, and I said we've had experience since I've been here that we've changed regulations, we've improved, and I'm sure I care about my activities the most. No, you say "waiting for 500 foster parents." We don't, they're old, they're not motivated, man, we've got an average foster parent for 55 years. They are not motivated because our fees are nothing, the cost of our lives is such that supplies cannot and cannot save must be used for the benefit of their users. So with this law, we want to motivate, so let's make sure that we get our expectations in this year and in the next period of 50%, so we've done something. He's heading towards motivating the foster home because they're not motivated anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90889	Thank you very much. We're moving on to individual debates. The first debate is Mrs. Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90890	Here's another thank you, Vice President. Respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. So, I'm going to commit myself now to the exposure of those two minutes by my colleagues, and first I'm going to look back at that part that you've completely ignored in all the comments, and I'm going to be completely referencing that it's not in accordance with the social care law. And it's actually about the rights and life partners and persons, so life partners can be foster parents. And you really need to change that. And here's what I'm going to tell you for the simple reason and why. If you're talking about it, then, that community of life partners is not good when we talk about fostering children. How about when it comes to fostering adults? What do you mean, a life partner or a community of life partners don't have the right to foster an adult who's going to do harm? On the other hand, you are very hypocritically counseling people, perhaps even different orientations, if you tell them that the executions, appear as single, report as single, then you will be entitled, then you will be able to work as, or you will be able to be a foster parent. So tell me if it's not hypocritical? So we should definitely change that. Now there's something else in this individual, individual debate that I'd still like to touch because it seems really important to me. And that is, above all, when we talk about the law, it should still be possible to separate it. To separate foster care for children and foster care for adults. Because you're going to give me the right to do two really different areas. That foster care for children is one thing, that it has its own legality, while foster care for adults is something quite different. The foster care for children is indeed and we take it as a temporary solution and in foster families is a common fluctuation, often changes occur while adults have a case of being truly one for life or for staying a person for as long as they live. What I would also like to point out, and this results from the consultation, comes from the discussion of the Ombudsman's Office for Persons with Disabilities, which you actually referred negatively to in the comments, and I think we should really take care of that and especially when we talk about adults. You refer here to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities who actually say foster care may be the best form of social care and that it is different from institutional forms of care. But the UN Convention doesn't really talk about it. That convention tells us that the biological family, a family where the basic family is actually the best family while fostering can be but doesn't have to be. It really depends on the quality of the care provided, the quality of the service provided. Hostage is a social service. So it depends on how the whole system supports this social service, which does for it and what can happen. You have not even recognised the research by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, the research carried out in the foster families of Zagreb County in 2016, and the results that do not exactly say that everything is great, because some results also point to potential violations of the many rights of people with disabilities especially when we talk about one fundamental respect for the right to choose, and here is what is crucial especially for adults, taking care of the quality of social service provision, we really need to make sure that adults have some more rights. So this law should also further strengthen the fact that an adult really has rights. She has the right to regret it. She has the right to decide. So, of course, he has the right to decide where he will go, but he has the right to complain and decide whether to stay in the foster home, and knowing that many people with disabilities are very difficult to express their thoughts or their decisions or whatever they are experiencing. I think that there and you should take care of the fact that making decisions with the help of an agent or of another person who is closest here, which does not come from the very foster family or from the social care center if we are just talking about supervision. On the other hand, I would also like to emphasise that it is really and too broadly defined who can get the status of a specialized foster parent given the profession, because you have put on really socio-humanist professions. Here I'll tell you in Sibenik-Knin County that profession doesn't exist for example. There is not one among the unemployed young people, all of us, because we cry out, so all of us are social care centres or callers actually call out for professionals in the areas of education-rehabilitation, social workers, psychologists, so there is no. How are we going to solve this problem? And do you really think that someone, so I don't want to insult any other profession in that sense right now, but whether or not someone who ended up in Sibenik, for example. the ability to do this job or foster care as a specialised profession? You got it. Of course he can because this law allows it. I also give the right to come through education, therefore, to acquire some competences, but let's stress then really in the law that they are indeed, that really through competence should define what needs specialised foster parents. Because specialized foster parents are really asking for a lot. We're looking for their knowledge, they're looking for their big engagement, so I think it's in everyone's interest to really be, to do everything we can to make sure that there aren't some wrong steps. You're saying, so I think that we could, and you might, or all of us, work together and think about actually introducing maybe agencies, transferring or having institutions that will actually be able to do quality work or with some of your professional work and availability and provide continued support to the foster parents. Similarly, do a truly quality evaluation work and see what happens to progress, what happens to a child, to the extent that contact with a biological family is realized, and where there is no opportunity to intensify the procedures for taking parental care and to implement a lasting solution that will be in the best interest of the child through adoption. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90891	Thank you, too. Now will it be the same as the individual debate of Mrs. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please? No, we've got replicas before, you're right. And the first line has Mrs. Strenja-Linić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90892	Thank you. Dear colleague Alfirev, I am pleased that you have repeated it once again, and I think we should do so today in a way that we should all tell the minister that I think the law should be divided into the part that is fostering children, and the other foster care of adults, that is completely two different things. And you also mentioned it on a few occasions today. Secondly, I'd like to tell you, so adoption is not at all cost. Which means some kids will be whole, so until they're old enough to have a situation that they should be fostered, so they don't adopt at all costs. Some children who are fostered have grandparents who are in a nursing home, who can't take care of those children, but these children can't be taken away from parental rights if parents have died, they can't go to adoption, although they have some right because they don't have parents anymore, but these children have their grandparents and have some history, adoption would be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90893	Time is inexorable. Here's the answer, Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90894	Thank you. My colleagues Strenja-Linić therefore, we are really on the same track because this law, too, what I was saying, must go in that sense to meet the needs of the users and that is what is most important and so it is true that one foster care, so we need to clearly identify what foster care is for children and what foster care is for adults. And indeed on the needs of each individual child, but I would say that adults depend on how, which procedures will be conducted, what will happen, and indeed everything must be in the best interest of either the child or the adult.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90895	Thank you. Next replica, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90896	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Here you have expressed regret that this bill does not provide that those who have a life partnership can also adopt children on equal terms. If there are a team, and in fact there are very few of them as far as I know, they don't show up at all, or they rarely show up for adoption, if they care about adopting a child, just walk up to the altar or the mothermaker and solve the problem, that they care. If someone cared about adopting a child, he would have made that step. All those I know who adopted a child, and unfortunately I know a lot of them, not because they feel bad about people adopting children, but because it's a big problem today infertility in marriage, in marriage communities. They would do anything to get that child as soon as possible, or to become adoptors, or foster parents. Such simple advice, let them get married nicely, and the problem has been solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90897	Thank you. Mrs. Alfirev, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90898	They're married, some are married, and I know it reliably. But now it's about adoption, this is the Household Act, it's something else. This is about foster care. Is what I am, too, so I think there are some lawsuits, and we'll probably hear more about it. The fact is that life partners are currently banned, not allowed and that's what's not good, and we're talking about the Household Act, and when we talk, I mentioned here, so it's not even allowed, we know it from the field, from practice, or from fostering adults. I'm asking you, what kind of damage will an adult or an elderly person do to a couple living as a life partner?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90899	Thank you very much. Mrs. Petrievcanin Vuksanovic as a replica now, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90900	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, I was disturbed by the word hypocritically in your individual debate. If that word had been used, say, by a colleague of Mrak-Taritash, I wouldn't have answered for the replica because she's not wearing the SDP's criminal government and not doing it. And I'll remind you that in 2012, 14 civil NGOs responded to the attitudes that the SDP's resolute minister said on HTV's show at the time, and I quote: Children are threatened by the stigmatization if they are adopted by same-sex couples. Therefore, it does not make any sense by the SDP to complain now to this ministry and to this government what was not done during your government, and you had the chance. Therefore, your objections are absurd. I expect at least a minimum of correctness because to recognize someone else's work, when you haven't already had your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90901	Mrs. Alfirev's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90902	My colleague, so I'll say it one more time. As an opposition representative, as a representative in this House, I can give my opinion and I really am not responsible for anyone's actions before. And I repeat again and that's my point of view, and that's my opinion, that's my view that life partners have the right to foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90903	Mr. Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90904	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Alfirev, we should always be guided by what is in the best interests of the child, that is, the adult who is being fostered. You mentioned that the biological family is the best, that if it's functional. On the other hand, you mentioned agencies, this is more a liberal round than a social democratic one, it is a harsh market capitalism, I think that it has a Croatian tradition of foster care and needs to be repaired, I think that there is no more need for the Household Act, there is enough one law that will be quality and that will be comprehensive and can include both children and adults because then we could partialize especially children, especially adults, especially persons with disabilities, so that we could have 5 laws. I mean, if the law is quality, then one is enough. And as for the, of course, deinstitutionalization is always somehow a goal and foster care is a drop in the process towards it, but sometimes in a person with, say, a heavy disability, it's better to be in an institution than to be in a foster home that isn't quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90905	Thank you. Mrs. Alfirev's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90906	So thank you. In order to discuss what is in the best interests of the individual user, we must indeed do a quality analysis and see what the circumstances really are for each individual user because we also have a broad range of different social services in this regard. It doesn't mean that just don't know, organized housing or foster care or any other social service is the only possible. There are other solutions when people have really great difficulties, but that doesn't mean we really have to advocate development and invest further in the development of large institutions. That's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90907	And at the end of the day, Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleagues, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has clearly stated, quite clearly, that is how the Ministry and wrote in the light of this law, that the states of the parties to the conventions are obliged to recognise the same right for persons with disabilities to live in the community as everyone else. Hostage is a life in the community although, as you yourself said and saw, the Ombudsman has objected to such a way of life for people with disabilities because he believes it is not, since the UN Committee has given Croatia a recommendation that this should be deinstitutionalised. However, the very convention of colleagues, in that same article 19, says that countries are obliged to provide people with disabilities with a wide range of services in their home where they live, but also in the institutions in which they are located. So the convention itself knew that not all persons with disabilities could be deinstitutionalized, and this foster care is one good form of deinstitutionalization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90909	Thank you, too. And now the individual debate, the reply to the replica, I didn't see you looking, okay. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90910	Thank you. Is that really life in the community? If it is implemented with all guidelines and is actually implemented for good, for the benefit of users and if all those services are provided, so they enable participation really in the community, then it certainly is. Unfortunately, and this research itself has shown, we have families or foster families, where there is actually no big difference between living in a large institution and living in the family itself. It is simply because a person or child, therefore, and especially a person with disabilities can simply be imprisoned, under quotes, in an apartment, in a house, just as they will be in a home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90911	Time, thank you. Now indeed, Mrs. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic will have her own discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90912	Thank you, Vice President, that is finally the individual debate. I will now present in short detail why this bill in first reading is positive. First, very, very little was working on outside institutional forms of care for, I will focus on the children, let not everyone else, in previous mandates, in previous ministries. The second fact, the conditions were far more unfavourable, and the procedures were far more complex for adoption and fostering. They complained, as I said to NGOs, of judges for youth and others not to count them individually, but nothing was done. And now we have a bill that, for the first time, literally changes the usual paradigm of foster care, which so far, as I'm about to present some facts, was not good enough. And this law between the two readings, of course, that there is a need to do more work and to respect some of these remarks, but those who don't want to see positive shifts, of course they won't even see them, which is a malicious speech. However, this law does, objectively speaking, make a major shift, but I stress, further work is needed. What's already said, so I won't repeat it, which is staying in institutions isn't good enough, not desirable, not in a psychic or physical sense, it doesn't go to the expense of workers in these institutions, it's simply scientifically proven facts, and it's good that this law gives young and educated people the opportunity to finally decide to adopt themselves because we see what they are as defeating the results so far, that they are mostly people over 55, low-educated, etc. which does not diminish their desire for fostering and empathy. And of course, it will be necessary to take special care through supervision and particularly inspection supervision, and now there is one team on 100 foster parents as far as I've seen, so it needs to be strengthened so that someone doesn't get foster care primarily because of carrying out work and applying to compulsory insurance, it should be reduced to minimum and prevent such cases even though no law can actually prevent it completely. I observe this law in two parts. The first part is fostering children and I see two categories, one category is healthy children, the other is sick. And the other categories are old and powerless, which are also worth a distinction to these two categories. And I see the UNICEF office has supported this proposal. My colleague Zekanovic, I just can't talk because he's been behind my back the whole time. I apologize for taking the presidency, I'm sorry, but I just can't speak. I don't blame the president for anything but my colleague Zekanovic. So I see that the UNICEF office supports this bill, of course with a focus on children, which is their primary role and they even propose separate chapters for children and adults. And what is very necessary to point out, these are articles 10 and Article 11. Of course in this chapter of traditional foster care. And here I would draw attention and be particularly careful about categories such as a child with developmental difficulties and a child with behavioral problems because most foster parents are really empathy people who do not do work as a purely job but of course from human and noble intentions but human saying and we have to take that dimension, so sometimes it's hard with a child who is in puberty and has no difficulty, let alone with a child who has behavioral problems and what is a spectrum of behavioral problems. Is that from an autistic spectrum or some other behavioral problem? What if that foster boy takes the baby after six months? or a year ago he says p can't do it with that child, return that child, so it happens, it's that case from 2013 and it's going back to the account of the previous minister, unfortunately, when those procedures weren't fixed and they could be repaired, when that poor girl from 5 years old was taken several times and taken back, taken and left, and that child until enrolment in the 1st grade of primary school, the poor, poor girl could no longer be practically a healthy child, because she was not only abused in the foster family, but she was taking blows, beatings, humiliation, etc., and eventually they rejected her so someone else took it, etc. I mean, even a pet isn't left on the road, let alone a child who I say to enroll in the first grade of elementary school, that child is so traumatized that it will hardly work more normally. The previous government had the opportunity to edit and not edit. And for this I am looking at this law in the most positive, light, in the most positive intention that the office and what should have been arranged long ago and should be maximumly prevented, to prevent such situations from happening and it would not be bad to dissipate and the work of the CZSS in a way that determines each case individually or if they are siblings, then it is one case because the child's continuity is so monitored and the host has continuity and not that it is one for a year and then another, I think it is not the case now, but it must not even be allowed to become a case because the professional person must have continuity and the child should have continuity. And I will only mention it in the end, Article 7 defines obstacles to foster care. And it should really be pointed out that the foster parent cannot be a person who is legally sentenced to punishment under any article in the Penal Code, and in terms of child abuse and exploitation, and I hope that this will in particular incorporate that article 32 of this bill, which says that a person must take quality care of the child and it should be kept in mind that the child is in focus and his interest, as we have already heard here several times. And in the end, I would be really surprised that someone can have anything against this noble intention of this law, can understand certain articles and certain provisions that need to be agreed but against the empatic intention to arrange this space of foster care for the first time in Croatia and to introduce these additional categories and to allow young and educated people to foster children, I really can't understand it, and moreover, I don't know, is it probably, 15 million kuna is additionally foreseen by the budget for the implementation of this law. Therefore, I do not think that there are any economic reasons or professional reasons for this law not to pass in the first reading without further editing until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90913	Thank you, too. You have three replicas, it's actually to be four, but Mrs. Strenja-Linić, you have fulfilled the quota. The first is Mrs. Bedekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90914	Thank you very much. My colleagues, Petrijevcanin-Vuksanovic, I will look back briefly on how much time allows me to do that part of your debate in which you have made a very nice point, and here I agree with you, that this bill actually changes the Paradise paradigm so far, and I would add that this law is indeed flexible and would dare to say modern and appropriate time in which we live among others and through the introduction of the housing category as an occupation, and here you have made it very nice to stress that, with the introduction of this category, it is relatively necessary to introduce or prescribe mechanisms of control and inspection of this kind of activity as prescribed in the chapters 6 and 7 of the laws relating to the obligations of the CZSS, fosterers, etc. And I really agree with you when you say that the law should be observed affirmably and that you should actually give it a chance to live in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90915	Time, thank you. You want to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90916	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, Bedekovic, as far as I am aware, announced that she would strengthen the inspection services and in her speech, not here in the Parliament, but on the committee she said she was aware that the current resources of inspection services in the ministry were simply not able to respond to new challenges, but it was once again an inherited situation, which, of course, needs to be changed and the awareness that this is a problem, is already positive for me. And when a man realizes he's got a problem, then he'll go and solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90917	Thank you. Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90918	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. So it's about one law, which must be looked at in an absolutely different context. They're much simpler, I call them technical laws. Well, then if you make a mistake or if you rephrase something, it'll be very easy to get rid of. The consequences of this law are on people. People aren't potatoes. You can't move them from one basket to another. I really appreciate the ministry's efforts to go with that law. We, in the name of the club, when we discussed, spoke in this context and should listen carefully to the remarks and indeed take care of the implementation. So this law has given some frameworks, but in this law we will have one problem, and that will be the people who will do it, that on the one hand, with a good intention, to define, to allow decent living conditions, that maybe we've a little freaked out this part of who can do it all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90919	Thank you. Mrs. Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please respond... Excuse me, but in the future, come in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, not in the future, speak now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90920	I'm very sorry, thank you, Vice President. The respected microphone is included, dear colleague Mrak Taritash, no one spoke of potatoes, we are all very well aware that it is the most vulnerable groups, whether it is children, whether it is older and powerless sick persons. And I know that neither you, that's just what you said, you don't think that way, but about 9500 kn, per month costs a person's accommodation in the institution. Therefore, and we know that this accommodation is not usually satisfactory and that it is not always the way it should be. So, I'm not an apriorier against something that's got a chance at starting out to be good. I'm about to get even better between the two readings. But I can't afford to be against something that's never been arranged before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90921	Thank you, too. Last line, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90922	Dear colleagues, there is no need to worry here because of the heated debate, because it is an obligation for all of us to look for the good points and the bad points of the law that are proposed, and especially what this, regardless of the amount of legal provisions, is a much more complex law than, for example, Capital Market Act. And this law can, and this whole area falls for a lot more exams. They'll be on some criteria, financially, and here's the human destiny. I have no doubt that in two readings, we will lay out good laws and that some things will be done. But I'm afraid we're going to fall into our citizens' mistrust in each other, in an attempt to find each and every one of us some use for ourselves and a lack of good control. After the latest survey, 80% of our citizens do not trust their neighbours, their relatives and their friends, which is very tragic for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90923	Time's up. And we don't have any more replicas, now they're going to speak individually to Mrs. Ines Strenja Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90924	I thank the chairman. To begin with, I'd tell my colleague only a Petrijevcan, that in one month, if I count 7,000, that's 84 thousand in one year, and for 18 years in the institution, that's a million and a half. So much costs us that child in the institution, and the child grown up in the institution, we can definitely say that there was no adequate environment and it must leave consequences, certainly, that he must try to compensate for the rest of his life. I'm going to pick up where I left off, because I'd like to mention some more things, and that's like Article 7, actually, which you were also talking about, which is that I'm proposing to rule out the possibility of dealing with the foster care of a person with any kind of criminal past. If the promoter and decides to leave a number of individual crimes, I suggest that criminal acts be added, against sexual freedom, sexual abuse and child exploitation. I also think that it should be deleted, unless rehab under a special law has taken place, in this case there is no rehabilitation, in this family, this foster parent has sexually abused in his past and he must not be entitled to foster care. Not only that, but we need to move on, no one in his family should be convicted, unfortunately, of some people who are convicted of criminal acts, but this is a very specific situation, and I think we need to be clear here. Once again, she would return to it if she could be a professional foster parent, one who had three children. Sometimes it is, let it not be 3 children, so not every foster parent is able to take care of more children at the accommodation and take quality care of them, because we are going here to the expense of quality, we are going to the quantity. I suggest a minimum wage for two children, and if it's about three children, coefficients, increase that salary of a professional foster parent. She would also point out once again that there is a need to change the age difference between the foster parent and the foster child, that it can be at least 18 years old. Because of specific situations, when we have a 25-year-old sister, she couldn't have married her brother, and I think it's in the children's best interests, especially when it comes to fostering those children to stay in her family for whatever it is she's worried about. Just yesterday, the sign in the paper was where a 20-year-old nurse took care of a 14-year-old sister. There's a whole, even clearer difference. So, you have to define, so relative foster care. Furthermore, I'd like to mention the first time you introduced the term children without an escort. I've already talked about the kids without an escort. Children without escorts in Croatia are marginalized and in some ways removed from our eyes and placed in homes of children with behavioral disorders, which is absolutely unacceptable. So children who find themselves in the area of Croatia without adult escorts, these are children, are not located in any centres, children's homes without parental care, but in homes of children with behavioral disorders where these children are traumatized again because they are already there in one environment that is certainly violently affecting them. And I don't think that's appropriate for them. Those kids are in Ivantz, you know that, unfortunately we haven't worked it out yet. But we're putting an item here that we need to put kids without escorts in foster homes, and I don't agree with that either. Why? I believe that child care should be resolved without an escort, but I think it should, because these children need an interpreter, or someone who speaks their language, who will be able to adequately provide psychological support to them that if they learn Croatian, they can also become involved in education because we know just as well as how large a number of these children are not even involved in education. Even those who are with their parents in Croatia. So, we kids if they're scattered all over Croatia and fostered into different families, those kids come in there without having someone who speaks their language that's not good for them. I think for those children, a permanent solution is a good centre where they would have at least 4 languages that are most represented among them, meaning the pasture and all these Arabic and which in some ways would have complete adequate care for them. And you're also suggesting that foster care can mean six months after someone was a traditional foster parent, I think it's too short. So, I think it must be a minimum of one year, some suggest three, but I suggest that it be one year, and in this way, it would avoid situations that would arise for foster parents who immediately after becoming traditional foster parents, so after 6 months, they would ask for professional foster care as an occupation, because their priority was to achieve compensation and application of pension and health care. That paragraph was then made up of a number of objections to all associations, Article 21, that the supply will be determined for each user in particular. If this means that every social worker will have a discretionary right to decide on it then it will be a lot of problems because we are already facing different interpretations of additions of 10, 20% and there are different levels of compensation for the user with the same difficulties and needs. So the problems are even present in solving the one-time aid requirement. So you can imagine what it's going to be like when that social worker decides how much supply each individual user actually needs to be. I think it just needs to make a distinction of 0-7, 7-14, 14-18 years, that way because we know that different ages and different needs are children. I would also like to say that Article 39 should define members of the foster care team and certainly provide for the inclusion of a social educator and educational rehabilitator when it comes to a child with behavioral problems or a child with developmental difficulties. It is necessary to define also the normative, or number of foster families for which a particular team is in charge, which we have already said today and which should actually be significantly smaller when it comes to children with difficulties. Finally, I repeat, it is necessary to define definitely the situations in which a foster parent can make a decision on its own when it comes to the protection of the child’s health, i.e. custody. And finally, this is my individual debate, and I'm going to call once again to think and, in the final draft of the law, put a question of life partners, so this draft defines that only married and out-of-marriage friends can be foster parents. Therefore, in view of the fact that life partners are equal to mates in accordance with Article 37(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on the life partnership of the same sex, and that the Life Partnership Act is a person of the same sex, is an organic law in relation to the laws relating to family-law relations, I suggest that life partners be quoted as saying. And why is that? It should be noted that empirical research shows that children who grow up in families with same - sex parents are no different from adults in the family of heterosexual parents, both in cognitive, social, or emotional development, and show healthy psychological adjustment. Therefore, I personally feel that there is no excuse for limiting access to parenting or fosterhood based on the sexual orientation of potential adoptors and foster parents, and I call on you not to be hypocritical, to be more likely for children to grow up in an institution than to grow up in an environment where they would be with people who could provide them with a home, even as foster parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90925	You have another minute and a half, you can talk more if you want. You have three, however, these are replicas, one replica, only Mrs. Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90926	Dear fellow Stranger, I've been listening to you very specifically, but I'm interested in one thing. I wonder when we're talking about fostering what your attitude towards a weekend foster home is like? So the foster home is done during the weekend for children who are in their homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90927	Mrs. Strenja-Linić, I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90928	Thank you. It's one crisis fostering that I also suggest we actually make a distinction, otherwise it exists outside in countries so that you know who can crisis-adopt a child in the middle of the night to bring him a three-month-old child, 5 years old or a 14-year-old boy. These are completely different foster capacities, crisis fosterings are one story. It's the second weekend of foster care. I personally am not into it because you show that child at the weekend what a normal family is, that child sees what's wrong with that family and then returns to the institution. That's not good for that kid, kid, if you want to foster it, don't let it be yours, kind of label outwards, some modern whim, something to show you're doing good, no. You'd rather go to an institution, donate, volunteer, etc., but take the baby and bring it back, I'm absolutely against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90929	Thank you, too. Let's move on with the individual, you can, go ahead, five minutes, you're always right.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90930	Let me, I love it after such concrete suggestions might say something right now that we really support it, but something to sort of explain it a little bit. In fact, I would really like to come from such an inspiring debate, which was addressed by a representative of Strenja-Linić. In fact, some things can be said that we really accept about the age of relatives and this range of differences between the age of adoptors, fosterers, and users, that is, we can and should make use of the child. What I would say is that I fully agree that we need these provisions that are related to the perpetrators, any forms, any criminal acts, especially regarding sexual freedom, as well as their family members, in order not to get in touch with the child, we fully support as I do in other readings, we need to think about those who were addicted to alcohol and intoxicating drugs, since we know that there is always a potential relapse and it would not be good for the child. Very often, I want to point out once again that we want to have stronger control over foster care, not only of this foster care, because we are funding it now, so it is very important for us, but for the reason that fostering is simply a category that is dispersed and difficult to control it, we need to strengthen different forms of control, as well as this need, which is your intention to build up the number of children in relation to the number, that is, the foster parent. What you mentioned about children without escorts, mostly children without escorts are in some transition, they want to leave, but those who stay, we have, say, in the home of Osijek children who already fantastically speak Croatian without any emphasis, that little with Slavonic, they really are in homes for this as we say in... And they could be foster parents, for they have already been assimilated as to the language of the fosterer, for they have really been adapted to the tongue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what we like to emphasize is really about the individual processing of each potential user that will be placed, as well as the processing of each foster home. Also, I would say right now that we really need to strengthen that condition, the weather for how traditional a foster parent is, and then to become a foster parent as a foster parent with a profession. What I would like to say is that a social worker, I don't have time to see if we may have misdetermined it, but the social worker will by discretionary assessment not make the amount of compensation individually, but the minister makes a decision on the amount of monthly accommodation fees in the foster family, and this fee is worked out in relation to our categories of our users, so for the accommodation of a minor child who is preschool, school age, persons with disabilities, etc. I don't want to pick it up now. And that decision will now be corrected in accordance with the financial plan, i.e. the budgetary means that we have provided for the implementation of this law in favour of certainly better and easier implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90931	We have two replicas. The first line has Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90932	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister, it is extremely important that this law be passed. He will certainly open up in the application of a series of problems and I assume you will follow them to those problems and then react to that. My question is about, I absolutely take the view that fosterhood is a good form and you have services that will control it, but have you thought about, given the lifelong education, that the ministry is doing education, that it works eventually, that it will allow it to possibly have some kind of schooling or something because it will happen at some point when we will not have, with the goodwill that people are dealing with it, people who will be able to deal with it, or who will have an adequate education. And I think there's one effort that the ministry needs to make, on the one hand it's connected to that one PR that people know they can deal with, and another effort is that in the context of that, in relation to the available workforce, we might have an option for more foster parents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90933	Time. Miss Secretary's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90934	Here, thank you. Here's more to be explained, thank you for this replica. In Article 45, we highlighted this professional support of foster care that should be because it has been continued in the law, and as regards promotion in general now this law, which is different than the existing law, I must say that UNICEF 5 million kuna has made available to the Ministry in cooperation with the Ministry of the Academy Community, there will also be promotion and education, the programme is called For a stronger family where fosterers, potential, families, existing families, families, will be able to continue to strengthen these families, children, as much as possible, and thirdly, professionals in the centre who make decisions that all have equal tools to make equal decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90935	Thank you, Madam Minister. Mrs. Chikotić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90936	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am extremely glad that Mrs. Murganic came to this important Household Law today and I am sorry that she was not when she was a psychotherapy law. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that traditional foster parents are in some way punished by this law because they are not given the possibility of professionalisation or are mentioned retroactively to be granted the rights of employment for all the years they have spent in foster care, love and care, and today these same foster parents are beneficiaries of social assistance because they have not done their working life but have taken care of children without adequate parental care. Well, here's what I'd like you to do between the two readings, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90937	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90938	Thank you. I really come to the Parliament, you all know, I come regularly to committees, it even praises me, when I wasn't there was because I was either in the government or it was with the president about demographic provisions, so there was an obligation. I have no reason to avoid meeting with MPs and to explain what is extremely important to us because these are laws in some way promoting the activities of the ministry itself. And as for retroactive recognition and internships and pension and health insurance, to our traditional foster parents, I think it's almost impossible, I really wouldn't, but we open up the possibility of everyone who has conditions switching from traditional to foster care as an occupation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90939	Time. Now it's Mr. Mato Chichak's turn, no losses, no rights. And now it's Mr. Ante Babic's turn, same with his individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90940	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome, of course, the proposal of this Household Act, it has been very much talked about, and today, by coincidence of my colleagues, in fact showing this empathy for users, the children we should adopt, we all want to give pain in some way, we all want to talk about these things, and in fact it's the only Ines Strenja-Linić that person who's been involved in the case of foster care, I would say from the very beginning and my personal example, and I remember very well, recently held the thematic session where we could actually talk about fostering and adopting children in the Republic, and it was good to hear different opinions about saying, these phenomena, I won't talk about problems. The fact is that 6800 people are fostered by 3409 foster parents, these are data from 2016, but data from 2017 say that 174 foster parents don't actually have their own users. Why is it like that and why does it actually happen? I'll say two things, I'll try to compromise when it comes to this bill, then it's about the goals of deinstitutionalization and home transformation. And I have negative and bad experience on this issue, primarily because of the deinstitutionalisation that took place in the Republic of Croatia, I would say in a very bad way, and then in other countries as well, and our experts warned that deinstitutionalisation could not and should not go in such a way especially with persons, most disabled, I am obliged here to say this purely because of the deinstitutionalisation itself and then it happened to us that deinstitutionalised persons in the Republic of Croatia foster families or through some associations actually served as some sort of cover for the extraction of funds, and I am responsiblely claiming it. On the other hand, we must not ignore the fact that the former government took a 70m-euro loan from the World Bank and one part of those funds, almost one million euros should have served to deinstitutionalise what didn't actually happen, and today man would be here with that rhetoric and who speak in the Croatian Parliament could be asked where the money is, where is the money from the World Bank. So, I agree, deinstitutionalisation needs to work on it, but it should start with children and easier cases. Now, as far as this proposal of the Household Act is concerned, the question is why so few foster parents, or let's say, why in 2017 almost 200 foster parents do not have users. So if you carefully read and explain this law, it is said that the number of new foster families back several years is in constant decline, especially the family of younger age and higher education. That's one thing. The second thing is the same fee for foster parents of £2500, with of course categorization related to children who are neglected by parents, without adequate parental care, HIV positive children where they are far higher. Now at £2500 if we still pay our contributions, these are the minimum contributions that will create a new category of people with minimum pensions, and that should be thought about. It is also difficult to find young and educated people who, for example, will work and deal with the professional interest of the foster parent. The law itself or the proposal of this law is certainly good and it is a good path and it is good to see the light day and it will in its future have certain changes and additions and in fact the reality or better said reality will show how and in what way and in which direction we will go to improve this law. Let me go back a little bit to this part about the number of host users. So 2342 is children, and these are children who are without adequate parental care, HIV positive children, children victims of domestic violence, minor pregnant women, children with developmental difficulties and children with behavioral problems. It is true that we also heard here that it is far better for a child to be in a foster home than in a particular institution. However, I do not neglect the work of institutions, and I believe that the vast majority, with certain exceptions, are doing very well, and I think that the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy has its hands full on this case. On the other hand, by passing certain laws and we forget that several of them have been brought to the Croatian Parliament by the Minister that these laws in certain segments burden workers in welfare centres. So they're getting bigger. Of course, with politics, left, right, it's less important but the fact is that we don't think about that segment that these aren't all-powerful people that their scope of work is increasing and that we need to keep an eye on such things and not say that people at the welfare center are actually the beginning of the alpha and omega of all that and this issue of foster care. So I think that the permits for foster licenses are given by the centre and that there are no specific educations, that is what Sunčana colleagues spoke about today in her replica, in fact speaking about not being evenly distributed fostering in the Republic of Croatia, it is far more so in Zagreb, and you have very well explained this in Zagreb and the surroundings of Zagreb and the northwestern part of Croatia, while it is almost impossible to find a foster family from Zadar to the south. So it's almost impossible. Now, working on that education is necessary, but if the state really wants to and seriously wants to deal with this foster care problem, then it will amount to the benefits themselves, not only for the user, but for the foster parents themselves and the contributions to their salaries must be greater, and thus greater separation from the state budget. Perhaps something else about the foster parents that I was going to say but my colleagues were saying, I think that this is a colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić very well explained how and how, in fact, how to treat these users. I don't think we've had a lot of hard cases, some bad cases. I will only mention when it comes to older users and adults, just remember the Lamza case a month ago when a series of such negative criticisms and the Ministry itself, which has nothing to do with it at all, and the public likes to judge quickly and the same colleague of our former, so we received it here in the Croatian Parliament, also positively talked about by the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, about it were films and I don't know the documentaries made by the BBC, the ARD and the CDF in order to eventually make it happen for that man to be imprisoned to the pillar of shame. So the deinstitutionalization itself, yes, the transformation of homes yes, because I am that it goes from easier cases especially when it comes to children, and only then for these slightly difficult cases, and I think that this should be done slowly, gradually, and in this proposal of the Household Act, of course I support and believe that until the second reading there may be some improvements, but I am sure that in the future he will experience his changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90941	Thank you very much, fellow Babic. Just one little thing, when you're talking about the former government, you need to be more specific about the possibility of self-harming. ... Mrs. Bedekovic, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Replica, Mrs. Bedekovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90942	I had a delayed reaction to your statement, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I will only briefly refer to this information of yours where you said that 174 foster parents currently in Croatia do not have their own users according to statistical indicators, and therefore you yourself said that by opening up the possibility of establishing foster care as an occupation. So, among other things, the intensity is therefore an increase in interest in foster care but you have made it very nice to note that it is very important to take care not to repeat our trend to make foster care a front for the withdrawal of money and I would add that in fact that this one humanity that prevails in economic interest. And that is why I am stressing again, and you have pointed out that, too, the need for the introduction and development of mechanisms, mechanisms of control and control, and given the deficit of the human factor in our centres of social care, this needs to be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90943	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Babic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90944	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Bedekovic, I am pleased that you are thinking and talking about people who work in the center, they are really overloaded, you know, it's not easy when alone as a family, me and my wife can't decide about our own child what to do better. It's hard. It's not easy for them, and I understand them completely. And also when I spoke about this professionalization of foster care, yes, this law and professionalizes the profession. Fortunately, we don't have a lot of negative experiences, we have them, we had them in the ministry back then, but they're not very fortunate. That's what people do, there are positive examples, that's what my colleague Maximchuk was talking about. So very positive examples. We don't look at these people at all, you have cases where you have foster families who have 10, 12 children, today are social cases, and these are supposed to be heroes of this society. So I'm glad to show great empathy, but then one legal framework should be developed that will adapt to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90945	Thank you very much. Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Babić, you spoke of unequal distribution and it is evident therefore, Dalmatia, Istria, the Croatian coast, there are very few foster families and perhaps the ministry will need to make a certain promotional campaign, given that there are certain prejudices, that it is not only a matter of money, but rather a question of certain prejudices. Let's just say one recent example of the therapy community for women addicts was supposed to be open in Dalmatian Zagora, and the people there rebelled so that this therapeutic community would have to go to Slavonia to another location, which is also a lack of certain information, and we all need to work together in the field of foster care.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90947	Mr. Babic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90948	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Cellic, you as a doctor and a psychotherapist, I don't think there are any foster families in Metkovic. I don't think there's one, but let's just say you can work on at least being one, that's symbolic. And as for the opening of the therapy community in the Dalmatian Zagora, it's a place for me and I know very well the situation, so we already have one therapy community, but for men, and this was supposed to be for women and I think it was one misunderstanding, actually allowed a few people from the very place not to allow another such community because they think that in such a small environment that was defacto depopularized, it wouldn't be good. I don't know, I'm not on their side, I think they made a mistake because they have positive experiences from this previous community, very positive experiences, I think they should have let that happen. But thank you for warning me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90949	And finally Mrs. Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90950	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Babić, you opened up, that is, at the beginning of the debate you said something that I think is true for every job, and that there is no solution, that you should offer as much as possible to the solution and thus actually talk about the problem in general. I'm usually in the debates in this House something I don't really deal with, I rarely discuss this, but this is what I want to discuss, my sister is a social worker who's done a number of different jobs and I know in the family what it's about. Let's just say the second constituency unit around Vrbovac has an awful lot of foster families, why? So because people simply saw one another that help is good and it certainly needs to be created in one legal framework. If we have out of all the foster parents 5% of the negative experiences, that means that we have succeeded, and we need to look at it in that sense, I don't know, and aphimatically talk about this law with the idea that what we've shown is better between the two readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90951	Thank you very much. Your sister's a social worker, not a social worker? Okay, thank you very much. We're done with, yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90952	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, you said yourself if your sister is a social worker, then she can tell you best. I'm terrified, and we've witnessed a series of events that were related to the ministry and I couldn't intervene, and in terms of children and some other cases where we had, and now I'm not going to tell you an example, just one example in a small town in Dalmatia, so for five years, the welfare center followed that family, the court ordered that the children be taken away from that family, and then some of our colleagues from the Living Wall supported through Facebook, and they actually did a terrible situation where they didn't help those children or the center itself, and the Centre Director herself had such discomfort, in fact, that she had stepped down from her post because she couldn't stand it anymore. Not only that, but also a series of others, so we need to be careful when we say such things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90953	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Thank you, we're done with the replicas and will now speak individually to Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90954	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a lot already on this subject, and I'm glad that the bill that we have on the agenda today is being viewed from different aspects, and I'm going to have my part of the time that I've got at my disposal actually used to kind of recapitulate some of the key points of the law and to give some of my specifics also suggestions on concrete articles of the law. When the law in the first reading is looked at in this general way, I have already said and I will repeat once again, that this law is indeed in my opinion a reflection of both flexibility and adaptation and time and the situation in which we live, and that we can indeed say in this sense that it is a flexible, modern law, and it is precisely evident from its key points. So we're going to repeat, we're going to remember a little bit that the emphasis of the law puts first and foremost on deinstitutionalisation of children and adults who are located in institutions. I will remind you of the number that we currently have about 1419 children in our homes and that, I will remind you once again, housing in homes, institutions should actually be the last option when it comes to thinking about the child's development needs and thinking about the environment in which a child from a dysfunctional family will grow and develop. Of course, with the deinstitutionalisation of children and adults who are located in institutions, hand in hand goes the prevention of institutionalisation of children and adults, and also this law puts emphasis on motivation, increasing the number of foster families. Let us remember the statistics, we have already said several times, but I will repeat that we have the largest number of foster families in the area of central and SZ Croatia, especially in the city of Zagreb and Zagreb County, some of the cases our minister explained very closely, while the smallest number, therefore, of the households we have in the southern and coastal areas of the Republic of Croatia, so I feel it is necessary to point out once again that this law will contribute to regional equality, accessibility of foster care in the whole of Croatia. And likewise, when it comes to the age structure of foster parents, space is opened, so the special emphasis is placed on current data, which says that we have the highest number of foster parents with a final or even unfinished elementary school in late years, and this law, I would say, in some way, stimulates inclusion in this noble activity, young people, persons with a final school, or, professional training above high school, higher, just through the opening of the possibility of foster care institutes as an interest in employed parents, which will thus enable employment and then self-employment through the payment of all those rights that go from labour pension, health insurance, etc., and through the provision, the achievement of compensation, i.e., wages. So, I'm going to repeat, a little bit just to remind myself of those numerical indicators, so, 2.5 thousand pounds for medium professional training, 10 basics for pre-graduate and graduate studies and 13 basics for graduate studies, and here it seems to me that, by establishing the possibility of foster care as a profession, we also have one demographic measure, which will allow especially for our young educated people, who have a special affinity for this kind of activity. So, I stress not at all costs, here it takes one particular kind of both affinities and expertise to deal with this. So we're going to open up a space for self-employment, but someone's also been talking about this problem, so we're going to give room for the development of social entrepreneurship, so, especially in the rural environments, but also in the urban areas of our country. Of course, I certainly welcome this measure, but again I am warning the need, I have already said it, so I will not say it many times, just for a short while, therefore, the need to prescribe mechanisms, control and control the activity of fostering as a profession, and especially specialised foster care because it is particularly vulnerable categories of children, and then adults, especially children with special needs, developmental difficulties etc. What I find particularly important and important to highlight, other than the development of mechanisms, control of inspection, is very important to enable and develop in practice, after we prescribe them by law, the mechanisms of training fosterers to conduct in general the activities of foster care, the implementation of periodic education, but also the establishment and organisation of occasional, if not permanent support groups, which is very important. And I think it's very important to include in these professional teams specific profiles of experts, first of all, social educators and then educators, rehabilitators. And in the end, she would agree with colleagues and colleagues, who pointed out the definition of age difference between foster parents and foster children, which cannot be less than 18 years old, that's okay, but I would more precisely define a relative foster home in order to enable fostering brothers and sisters. I agree that this should be more precisely defined. And certainly what I said, I will finally repeat, of course, that this law should give us a chance to live in practice, that it should be observed affirmatively, but also I expect that by the second reading, that the minister and her team will respect all our recommendations and that by the second reading we will have an even better and even better version of this law, which I find very important to address this problem in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90955	Thank you, too. You have one replica, Mrs. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90956	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Bedekovic. Here, this whole debate about the law, which we all agreed to have a positive intention and this whole law, will practically come to mind, in the most banal sense, if those who have noble intentions both with children and with older ones and with housing in general, to improve their opportunities, their status and in general what they have at their disposal, to make these noble intentions real. On the one hand, this law enables, and those who do not have such noble intentions and fostering them for something else should be prevented or even punished for it. If we can do that, then we'll all appreciate this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90957	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90958	We thank you for this comment of yours, and I said so myself, and I believe that you will agree, not just you, but other colleagues and colleagues with me, when I say, that this law should give us a chance to live in practice. And of course, the laws and we work to focus on practice and to regulate this problem in everyday life, and above all to the benefit and centre of attention of children's needs, dysfunctional families, of course, adults from such families and, first of all, keep in mind meeting their needs and solving problems in their favor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90959	Thank you, too. And now, individually, Mr. Glavasevic will discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90960	.../The speaker speaks Italian./... Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. I'm actually going to narrow my individual debate here pretty closely to one topic that has already been discussed today, and I actually think it's important. It is, in fact, related at the same time and most to the fact that children who are inside the system, who are in their homes are given the opportunity to grow up, to be fostered in families, but it is also about how we want this system to be and how we want it to treat citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'd start with data that's official, so for 2016. They were already mentioned today. So we're talking about how foster parents in the Republic are mostly persons over 50 years old, how a third of foster parents don't have finished high school or even elementary school. We talked about how foster care is concentrated mainly in rural areas and how the number of young highly educated foster families in urban areas is, as is the case, very little and how the number is decreasing. I also have information that there are nearly a thousand children in the system who grow up in homes instead of foster homes. So, quite certainly, and that was what we were talking about today, and that, of course, it's in the interest of the child, and we mentioned that, I think there really is a consensus about it, that there is a consensus in the family. In the process of electronic consultation, or public consultation, the Ministry received proposals from individuals, as well as from many associations, such as the Dugina family association. They received suggestions to include in the Law the possibility of fostering life partners and informal life partners. The D.O.D. turned down all the proposals. So, in art. 3. The proposal of the Household Act is defined by the foster family. Only married and out - of - wedlock friends are indicated. It is also stated in the subsequent articles 18, 39, 41. Life partners and informal partners have been abandoned. The Life Partnership Act, which was adopted in 2013 by the vast majority of the votes in this House, actually calls for the equalisation of life partners with spouses and extramarital partners in all administrative procedures. Science and that may be important because the argument here is to be spoken of, that science is actually consensual. There is no difference in the development of children who are raised by heterosexual or same-sex couples. Sexual orientation does not affect parental and educational capacities. There are no scientific grounds for restricting the rights of same-sex couples to access the adoption process. The leading international, leading Croatian professional associations advocate legal changes in the direction of expanding access to foster care and equal couples. So I would like to call here first of all to bring Croatia through this law, to stand by the most developed European countries that have followed what I have just said. ... who have acknowledged this condition and who have allowed couples of the same sex to be foster parents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can read you a list of European countries that have made it possible for same-sex couples to be foster parents. It is Andorra, it is Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, for example, Luxembourg, Malta, a very Catholic country such as Croatia, Luxembourg, I said it is a pardon, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, so the number of European countries that have made it possible is really big, dominant. I have to admit, it's hard for me to find arguments and understand the arguments that we're not going to make. Here it should also be said that and this is what may be the core of all of this, that the state should not actually restrict the right of a child to the best possible foster family just because a same-sex couple has been formalized through a life partnership, whether informal, must not be the basis for discrimination, and that was it. I don't know if you're aware, and you should be aware that there is a lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia for discrimination in the adoption process. I don't think we need that kind of stuff. And not only that, but I think that, I mean, we can prevent that, but it's not even a question of damage to the Republic of Croatia. The interest of the child and the interest of equal treatment of Croatian citizens and citizens must come here in the front row under the law. They must have the same opportunities as everyone else. I mean, I get the impression that while I'm saying this, I don't have this, I mean, as we look at each other, I don't see any kind of disdain. So here, I would really like to call in this way in this individual debate, this is the first reading of the Law, so that by the second reading of the Law, you can really include the possibility of verbating, in accordance with the 2013 Life Partnership Act, which calls, therefore, informal and formal life partners, same-sex communities to put into this Act, to allow same-sex couples to be foster parents. It is certainly in the children's interest to grow up in families, to grow up in a healthy environment. Scientific research has shown that there's no difference. I can understand that there are significant resistances in our society, significant pressures exist not to be done but I think of us as the people our fellow citizens and fellow citizens have chosen to represent, to help Croatia stand by these countries that I have read. These are developed European countries and I think we can do it. Here, thank you. I hope that by the second reading I really won't have to write amendments, and if these things are included, it will make it much easier for us to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90961	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first line has Mr. Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90962	Your Honor. When you look at a commercial of a beautiful and smooth representative of a gay population who is so culturally, nicely, gently holding on to their gentle hands you can't imagine what an organization has written about them. It's not some xenophobic report, it's from... He says like this, typical gay practice is a real medical horror, imagine replacing saliva, feces, sperm and blood with dozens of unknown men over the years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imagine drinking urine, swallowing feces, details in the text, love being called in the septic pit. And rectal trauma on a regular basis, how not to advertise such a life to children as a healthy alternative, to what a normal marriage community provides. Often happy encounters take place at extreme...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90963	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey. I know you like... But I have to interrupt your quote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I must give my word to Mr. Glavasevic, who asked for an answer to the replica. [[Intruder Culey: Thank you there's another half a metre.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90964	Yeah, colleague Culey, I don't think it's actually possible, I think you talk about yourself every time you open your mouth. I mean, I'm not going to insult you here, but that would really be an excessive shelling of my colleague Culey, about yourself, you're just saying enough. And just like the pressure exhibit I was talking about in my individual debate, look, this is completely unrelated to nothing. One thing Mr. Culey says is that the other is what science says. And other European countries that have clearly recognized that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90965	Mr. Culey was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90966	Article 238. Representative Glavasevic insults me that I'm actually talking about myself and I was actually talking about what experts think about those who do and the like, so I'm just worried that you're protecting these things and that you don't respect this gentleman... What's his name, he's an expert, you know, a little bigger than me, so he understands what I'm talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90967	My colleague Culej... He died very many years ago, he wrote that book 70 years ago or 60 years ago, and maybe I shouldn't and as a psychologist who I read all those research that's being talked about, I'm sorry, I can tell you that it stands and what Mr. Glavasevic said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's research that proves it, and these two things are not related. I won't give a warning to you or Mr. Glavasevic because it's not a matter of warning, it's a matter of thinking for discussion and many are discussing it, so I would ask you not to go further with the polemics. Okay? Let's move on. Mrs. Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90968	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Glavasevic, in your presentation, you spoke about this, the lawsuits that exist and that will eventually exist. I think this law should be given a chance. This law speaks seriously of the problem of foster care and finally solves it in a great way and we will be able to say something about the effects of this law after 6 months, or if the number of foster parents increases, it has already achieved its purpose. At the same time, I hope that between the two readings, the Ministry will recognise the importance and need of the Life Partnership Act so that this law is in line with the Life Partnership Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90969	Answer Mr. Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90970	Thank you. Thank you for your comment, colleague Jeckov. So the Dugina Family Association today had a press conference, among other things, that provided information on how institutions are on several occasions, so there are more examples when they refused same-sex couples in the foster care process, not directly leading to the fact that they are a same-sex couple. So, although these are young couples, highly educated, situationed, who positively went through all psychological, all social tests, so on all counts they met the high criteria for foster care. So it really shouldn't be like that. I mean, it's just discrimination. And of that, I'm convinced there will be, such lawsuits. We know now, here's what I've set an example of one, but that kind of lawsuit will be if we don't stop this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90971	Mrs. Lukacic as an individual debate. Here you go, Mrs. Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90972	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here I am expressing my satisfaction that this law has been found on our benches, I would say in the social care reform system and as a step forward towards deinstitutionalising users and transforming the homes of social care that I have been talking about for several years. As I have already mentioned in my replica, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, recognise the child’s right to live in a family as well as the person with disabilities in family and community. When it comes to the deinstitutionalization we've been talking about for years, intensively, and in which the Republic of Croatia has begun, in my personal opinion, perhaps a little sudden and perhaps at that moment we were still a little bit unprepared for this very extensive process, but we're on our way and I think it's good. I think fostering is one of the forms of deinstitutionalization is an extremely good thing, although I must say, many people don't really think so. I know many children with developmental difficulties and people with disabilities in foster families. Some are very happy, and some are not. On the other hand, I have to say that some foster parents are satisfied, and some are not. So I am glad that this law will finally give the foster parents the position they deserve so far, and I am sure that most foster parents were engaged in foster care because they wanted to do so, which is humane, not solely because of the benefits they received, which were not so great. So I'm glad that this law solves their status. A lot of objections to this law, and I would also say constructive suggestions, was addressed by the Ombudsman to people with disabilities. I have seen that, Madam Minister, in a public debate where she has referred her proposals, some of her proposals and accepted, which I thank and support, but some of you are not, so here, I suggest that you consider once again between these two readings whether there is another possibility that some of her proposals will be accepted. In particular, I mean Article 7 where in any case I think no rehabilitation for those who have committed domestic violence and some serious crime for which they have been convicted cannot be a reason to deal with foster care in the future. Similarly, Article 16 of Article 16 states that specialised foster parents would not be able to provide services to disabled persons, disabled users, but only children with developmental difficulties or children in general. I think that in this article, as I have also said on the proposal of the Ombudsman for disabled persons, we should also include persons with disabilities, and also because the specialized foster care will be what many people with disabilities really need, given that they certainly need the services of people who specialize in certain occupations that can be of great importance to people with disabilities in providing services. There are still a lot of objections, i.e. the defense attorney's proposal, I am now not going to list everything here specifically because you will have a chance to see and consider between these two readings. I would also like to point out that it is my personal opinion, and many colleagues here today have mentioned that the control of the foster home is of paramount importance by the social care center or by some kind of inspection. We know and each of us probably knows some of us who lived in a foster home, who were there and harassed, and everything happened to them, without our welfare centers taking adequate measures to get that person out of that foster family, somewhere they did, but it's not a rule that people, users who are in the foster family, are doing it. When it comes to persons with disabilities, I can say one even frightening fact, the community that the Alliance of Persons with Disabilities has in view of the applications of persons who appear there on the SOS phone, that many people with disabilities are discriminated just as when it comes to violence, sexually, economically, any, within the circle of their own family, unfortunately. So some are better at foster care than in their own and vice versa, etc. However, it is important that as much as possible when it comes to people with disabilities and all other users, life is ensured within the family circle. On the contrary, I will also end this debate, ask one question to you, Madam Minister, the suggestion that you consider this in the space of two readings is that, it is not directly subject to this law, but as regards this law, as regards the user, the particular person with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, and that is whether when a person with disabilities or children with developmental disabilities will be placed in a foster family, or what will happen to his personal disability? We know that if a saga is located in a foster family or in a home, in a social care facility, that person loses his right to a personal disability. We know that the Social Care Act is in preparation, that working groups are doing their job, so I would ask you to take this into account in the construction of this law and that persons with disabilities are not deprived of the right to a personal disability because it is not compensation, social compensation as I have already mentioned several times, it is a compensation for a person with disabilities to allow himself to enter the community as much as possible because none of her family rights nor her foster care nor the social care home can afford to enter the community as he can himself. I'll say one example, if he wants to buy a laptop, it's getting into the community, here it is, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90973	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90974	Thank you, President of the Parliament, colleague Lukacic. So here's the debate where you mentioned that there are really no rules and that if someone wants to do something wrong to someone, they'll do it no matter where they are, whether it's in a basic family or a foster home or some other form of social service because it just depends on that man, right, and that's unfortunately so. But as a state, as a system, we have to do everything we can to keep it from happening. It's simple not to come even though there's no guarantee. As a result of this and this law, we should install as many of those provisions as possible that will in some way guarantee the quality of supply and, in some ways, better control of the social service itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90975	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90976	Yes, I agree with you, it is true, I also said that even the remarks made by the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities and all the remarks that fellow representatives here today have pointed out, I am sure that the Ministry will act and classify everything that is possible in order for this law to be truly good, quality and to the satisfaction of society as a whole of the fosterers and users so that we will ultimately all be satisfied with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90977	Thank you. Let's go to the last debate, dear colleague Cellic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90978	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Today we are talking about social services and your presence here is an indicator of how much you care about this topic and how important this topic is in the context of the national reform plan for social policy. Today, there have been a lot of speeches about how to improve foster care as a social service, what's kind of new, so it's doing foster care and we hope that the number of foster families will increase because in contact, daily contact with the CZSS, the problem is at this point fostering both a child and an adult with or without disability. When defining the concepts, therefore, the question of the foster parent where it is stated that it can be a member of a foster family or single family, perhaps it should be clarified in paragraph 3. So when a foster family is defined, so the community made up of a foster parent, a spouse or an out-of-marriage friend, children and other relatives with whom the foster parent lives in a joint household, we can have a certain problem there. For example, if it is an elderly person who is demented, she is a member of that family, and by that definition she may be a member or representative of a foster family, so perhaps she should consider listing herself as one of the additional members of a family who is medically capable. I don't know if it can fit because I'm saying, a family member is also an elderly person who can't be medically capable if some specific situation happens here. When defining foster parents, therefore, a younger adult, is a person from 18 to 21 years of age, until the end of regular schooling, there may also be a need to define which is the upper age of schooling, whether it is up to 30 years old or up to 25, 26. Here's something you might want to see. Furthermore, in Article 4, I find it absolutely positive to raise the criteria of school preparation from primary school to foster school, but it is a question of the health skills of foster parents. So, what about the other members of the household? So, in one household, he can be a tenant, a protected tenant, whether he should have a certain medical ability, so as not to have certain problems, when a new member comes within that family. So, should we do a check on the same principle as for members of the foster family in the narrow sense of the word. It may be good, therefore, for those foster parents, who are fostering adults, with a severe degree of disability, or who are, therefore, immobilized persons, that these persons have completed a care course. Maybe it's an additional criterion and we've raised the criteria maybe because of the lack of foster families, maybe it's going to come up in some first period of a kind of break-up, but I think we should think about that, too. The question of who determines whether it is a person in a working relationship, whether it is determined by a welfare centre or by the Ministry of Demography, family, young social policy. So, when we talk about foster care as a profession, that is, occupation, art. 5. already there have been speeches, colleague Alfirev spoke about specialized foster care and when in some ways narrowing down which persons can be specialized foster parents, there should be seen whether all who have pre-graduate and university studies or perhaps, for example, in the case of the Law on the Activity of Psychotherapy, just specify specific studies, such as the Teacher Academy, means pre-school education, psychology, defectology, social work. I'm saying maybe it's a constraint, but in some perspective, if we narrow it down, we narrow it down to exactly what's specific and what's going to be the most competent or to make it possible for everyone. Because let's say it's unlikely that the doctor will be unemployed, so he could be a foster parent by profession, but according to this doctor, he can't be a specialized foster parent, because they're natural sciences. Article 8 which speaks of the accommodation of users in the foster home, so it is located by the centre of users, I think it is good here, to make better communication between the centre of users and the centre of the foster home, that there is also the consent of the foster home centre when we talk about the accommodation of users in the foster home. A colleague of Strenja Linic, a colleague of Alfirev, spoke and the minister also problemed the issue of rehabilitation in her address. So with those who have, who have committed some crime, I think this is, rehab is too high, so it'd be better if it wasn't there. Because then as you Madam Minister said, a person who was addicted to alcohol, the question is, can she then be a potential foster parent? I think if there's a strict criterion, then here, with those who have committed a crime, this part, related to rehabilitation, should also be removed. The question is how many children can be at the same time, here it is said that 3 is why there could not be two or one, there is now a question, is it possible to legally shape it, so if we have determined coefficient 1 if there are 3 children, then maybe there are some families that will then be paid pension and health benefits, get a third of those benefits, which are given to fosterers for three children, or let's say if it's two children, and then get 2/3 of the price they imagine for foster parents who have 3 children. And then to pay 2/3 of pension and health care. Here, I don't know if it's legally possible because I'm not a lawyer, but there was talk about why three, or maybe lead to three, if there's that possibility. It's a question of a mother's accommodation with a child. So if a mother is staying with a child, then it's my question, is she going to issue a permit for a child or for an adult, it's this much more controversial, there's a mention of that possibility of adopting a mother with a child, so if the other child who is fostered is not from that mother, it can be a particular problem, but now this is more a matter of formal character, so, is it then a license for an adult or is it talking about a permit for a child? There were also speeches about that weekend fostering, so I have nothing against it, so there are only two basic types of foster care now, before it was an emergency foster care, even occasional foster care, so, what with those who are willing to foster a child, let's say by some regular principle, weekends and lawyers, would it then be a new category or such a possibility will not exist at all. That's it, thank you. I think this is a very high-quality proposal, I'm sure until the second reading will be adopted and the proposals that were now under discussion, but this is definitely a step forward, on foster care, as social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90979	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate, so I'm closing it up, and we'll vote when the conditions come to pass. Proposal for a Household Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 376, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1.- Proposal for a Household Act and 2.- Any objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 82 for, 17 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: It is called on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose such a solution to which persons who have concluded their life partnership will not be discriminated when submitting applications for foster care. I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the SDP Representatives Club, please vote. I find that with 24 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 71 votes against the proposed conclusion of the SDP club did not receive the required number of votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90982	... the procedure, including the Government and comes before you in a parliamentary procedure so that you can make your observations, your observations and ultimately the Government hopes to adopt such a draft, or such a law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. [[Specially enabled.]] This proposal proposes a fourth amendment to the Penal Code. Namely, the Penal Code was passed in 2011 and entered into force on 1 January 2013. Since its adoption, it has been amended three times and corrected once. It was first amended in 2012 before the entry into force, so that the first amendments came into force from the date of entry into force of the law. The second time in 2015 because of the problems observed in practice, the need for further harmonisation with the acquis of the EU and international documents and the need for the Penal Code to be done without technical and linguistic means. While the third amendments and additions were initiated in 2017 by the need to bring national criminal legislation into line with the EU acquis in the area of capital market abuse, this assembly worked. The need to adopt laws amending and supplementing the Penal Code arises primarily because of the need to bring domestic criminal law into line with the EU acquis, with Directive 2017 541 of the 2017 European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on the repression of terrorism and the replacement of the Council's Framework Decision, further in the text of the Directive on the control of terrorism. New incriminations have been introduced, training for terrorism in addition to Article 101 in order to properly transpose the terrorism directive. The Penal Code and the independent crime of travel for the purpose of terrorism in Article 101a of the Penal Code. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. New descriptions of criminal offences that further segment the forms of terrorism allow for a stronger and more precise response of the criminal justice system to the sources that this type of crime puts before modern societies. The second directive to bring our criminal legal framework into line with material criminal law is Directive 1371 of 2017. The European Parliament and the Council, which refers to the suppression of reports committed against the EU's financial interests by means of criminal remedies, etc. ... That directive is a unique criminal legal framework to combat fraud committed against the financial interests of the EU. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It establishes minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and types and the level of criminal sanctions that can be imposed on perpetrators of criminal offences committed at the expense of the EU's financial interests. The analysis of this Directive has shown that our national legislation is in line with the requirements it imposes on the description of criminal offences as regards the framework for criminal sanctions. Following this, the Penal Code did not need to be amended or complemented in order to comply with this Directive. In addition, the harmonisation of criminal legislation, the crime of money laundering referred to in Article 265 KZ, has been carried out. with recommendations from the report on the fourth round of the evaluation of the Republic of Croatia on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing adopted at the 42nd plenary session of the Council of Europe Committee on the assessment of measures to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. Manival, a maneuver as the rest of the work of the Council of Europe, as a permanent body of the Council of Europe responsible for assessing compliance with the main international standards for the control of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the effectiveness of their implementation, and as a body responsible for making recommendations to national authorities on the necessary improvements to their national systems. During the analysis, the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia in 2013 produced a number of recommendations including those concerning the need to amend criminal material legislation. Following the recommendations in question, the crime of money laundering has expanded with a new mode of law enforcement. A new incrimination of the criminal offence in question has also been added, and it is explicitly prescribed to confiscate the property benefit, subject matter and means resulting from its initiation. The purpose of these amendments is to set a stronger normative framework which will further prevent the concealment of the property benefit acquired by criminal acts and improve the conditions for its confiscation. A revision of the transposition of the Directive was also carried out on 40th of 2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 August 2013 on attacks on information systems. In the follow-up to the Directive on attacks on information systems referred to by the European Commission in its evaluation report of 13.9.2017. The European Commission report has shown the need to amend three criminal offences in the head of criminal offences against computer systems, programmes and data and this unauthorized approach referred to in Article 266. Criminal code, computer data damage 268 K.Z. and use device Article 272 K.Z. This is the case with the amendments in question through the addition of the offence referred to in Article 266 paragraph 1 K.Z. sanction unauthorized access to the work of the computer system as an object of committing the criminal offence in question. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: K.Z. In addition, it shall be incriminating the cover-up of other people's computer data or programmes or preventing access to other people's computer data or programmes, while in addition to the legal description of the criminal offence referred to in Article 272(1) and (2). K.Z. prescribes distribution as a new mode of committing a criminal offence. By objecting to the description of criminal offences, a higher degree of compliance is achieved with the incriminations set out in the said Directive and remove any gaps which may arise by language interpretation and comparison of expressions in those acts. Finally, the subject of the fourth amendments and the addition of K.Z. In addition, changes to the nomotechnical nature, such as the elimination of deficiencies in the doubt arising from the legal text, which are seen in the practice of applying K.Z., are the addition of Article 57. K.Z. which is regulated in part by the regulation of the new paragraph 5 in such a way that the time of maintenance of the unconditional part of the penalty is excluded from the prescribed period of verification from Article 5. 56, c. 3. Penalty law. Namely, as the period of verification begins to run from the power of judgment according to the provisions of the Article. 56, c. 3. The penal code, if the deadline is short, will expire while the convict maintains the unconditional part, and if the convict is inaccessible, the period may expire even before he enters into the maintenance of the unconditional part of the sentence. The Proposer proposes this Proposal of the Law to amend the definition of the victim in Article. 87th century, 25th century. The Penal Code shall comply with the definition of the victim referred to in Article 1(1). 202, century 11. The law on criminal proceedings. The decision and, therefore, decisions of the Constitutional Court speak about where all the CAP has been published, therefore, in a way that distinguishes the direct victim and the specific victim. The direct victim is a natural person who is directly affected by the committing of a crime and who has therefore suffered physical and mental consequences, property damage or significant violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, while the indirect victim is considered both a spouse and a spouse, a life partner or an informal life partner and a descendant, and if they are not there, an ancestor, a brother, a sister, one whose death was caused by a criminal offence, and a person who was obliged under the Law to abstain. In particular, compliance with the terms of material and procedural law is a prerequisite for the harmonious functioning of the criminal justice system and the prevention of problems that could arise in practical application and the provision of adequate protection to victims of criminal offences. Finally, it should be pointed out that the Proposer proposes this bill to prescribe a new independent crime of coercion towards a healthcare professional in Article. 315.a. KZ as a reaction to the emerging forms of coercion directed towards healthcare professionals in connection with performing their health activities as a public service. Article 1 of the criminal act in question incriminates the prevention of force or threat to direct use of the medical doctor, dental doctor or other healthcare professional as a public service. In St. 2. as a qualitative circumstance, it is prescribed to endanger the life or body of a doctor of medicine, a doctor of dental medicine or another healthcare professional or the application of a physical injury or the use of a weapon or dangerous tool. Article 3 provides for the possibility of being released from the punishment of the perpetrator of this criminal offence when it was caused by illegal, reckless or particularly rude treatment of doctors of medicine, dental medicine doctor or other healthcare professionals. Gentlemen, that's what I had to tell you on behalf of the proposer of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90983	The State Secretary's exposure caused two reactions. The first replica, a respected colleague of Strenja-Linić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90984	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. We have before us a proposal to amend the KZ that you had at the government on Thursday and that we are here to discuss today in a few days... On the agenda of the Assembly is Law 244 which amends the same Act proposed by the HDZ Club, which punishes more drastically the perpetrators of child sexual abuse and which would finally allow for the absence of outdated sexual abuse of children and all that violence is against children. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why you haven't united, so this law that I've proposed, the Act of Attacks on Health Professionals that I've proposed, you've finally incorporated here, but you've left out this Law that is even more important to me about attacks and sexual abuse of children. Why is that? I've seen it, I've collected 37 signatures, and this law requires it to be on benches within a week.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90985	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90986	Dear Representative Linic, therefore, things are not as simple as you want to show them to the general public, but also to the Croatian public. The Croatian government, the Ministry of Justice, is taking care of all legal proposals. This law, which we have proposed to the Parliament here today on behalf of the Government and referred to the procedure, took place a little earlier in the process. So the task force had a specific project task, and on this project mission to say so, it worked so hard and led to this result. The government, and the Ministry of Justice, is also in contact with persons who propose the Law on Better Protection of Victims, so children as victims of sexual violence, and in this regard will surely be followed by changes in the KZ. Unfortunately, for now, but it has not yet been excluded that it will be connected with this Law, for now it was not possible simply because this Law has gone far, and it is about the implementation of two directives to which we were obliged.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90987	Thank you. Another replica, a respected colleague, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90988	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I am obliged to ask one question through replica. Of course, I support the new criminal act introduced in Article 315, which concerns better protection of all healthcare professionals, doctors, pharmacists, nurses, and all who carry out medical activities. We did something similar in 2015 to amend the Law when we allowed the procedure to be initiated under official duty in the event of the threat of violence against all persons exercising public authority, as well as on teachers, professors, all educational workers, so I wonder why you also did not put in this legislative proposal. In this way, all persons exercising public authority in 315. And I'm curious to know if you know the information on the official duty of proceedings against those thugs who attacked the educators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90989	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90990	I don't have data on the number of people who have been attacked, but as far as these proposals go, they protect themselves better with criminal and legal tools and everyone else, so you're specifically talking about teachers, so the assessment is always in these situations. If we all categories of people come in contact with other people in any way, then we're basically closing a circle and there's no need to protect anyone anymore because they're all protected in the same way. So the evaluations are done in the way of the medical population, or the population of our people who work in health care as a public service, were somewhat more endangered than those of the others you speak of. It is not excluded that one day, if that number of attacks on these persons increased, we will protect them more strongly with criminal legal tools as the last tool that protects social goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90991	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If I don't open the debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja-Linić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90992	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. For starters, I'll look back at two parts of this bill. First of all, I suggest that when you have already amended Article 55 which speaks for the general good, since this law proposed by the HDZ Representatives' Club on Sexual Abuse of Children has not been introduced into this law, that paragraph 2 is added after paragraph 1, which reads: "The penalties imposed for the offences of sexual abuse and child exploitation cannot be replaced by work for the common good." I don't think anyone who sexually abuses a child can get a job for the greater good, and I don't know if anyone can be against such a proposal that I would ask you to put into the final draft of the law. So just so you know that during 2015, according to the MIP, there were 4 thousand 504 child abuses, 590 of them also experienced sexual abuse. For the period 2016-2016, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4846 total abused children, 848 abused, sexually abused children, were 848 sexually abused children. So for each child there is the name and last name of the abuser, it is done by over 800 adults who, according to the applicable regulations in a given part, can end up maintaining their sentence, perform it by working for the general good. Children should be the most protected part of our society and punishment except that they need to be a much stricter link to their law, meaning what is in the proposal and what I will pray for because I have collected 37 signatures from the MPs to be put here and to debate this House within a week and every sentence for the perpetrators of sexual abuse and child abuse should be ensured, indeed, and carried out in prison and not by working for the common good. So if they steal millions, they can peel potatoes, but if they abuse children, they don't. I'm glad that the article that protects healthcare professionals was finally included, the proposal is also an amendment to the criminal law, which I put in the procedure six months ago. I have repeatedly called on this law to be put on the agenda, and I will discuss it now that you adopt this and withdraw it because it is important to finally sanction an attack on healthcare professionals. I'm sorry that these things don't come any faster because we had this morning the Law of Cooperation with the Space Agency and the Space Program and there are more important things that are, I'm just going to read you a few titles. He attacked a doctor with a knife at Dubrovnik Hospital, a doctor from Kaštel Stafilic's patient in the office set off a bomb, only some of the cases of attacks on doctors during their medical duties. Last summer, a Zadar neonatologist was killed who had a patient fractured his jaw, causing an emergency surgery. The attending doctor at the health care facility tried to choke her because she didn't want to issue the desired treatment. A nurse from the psych ward in Zadar two months ago was physically attacked by a younger patient and ended up in neurosurgery. Night duty at the ORL clinic as part of KBC Osijek, one doctor and nurse will not remember for good, the patient has come to seek help, argued with the doctor and sister and as with several other members and directed them serious death threats. The following title: The waiting room was entered by a tall strong man in a pitfirer who came to the nurse looking for a manual, when she told him she couldn't give, started yelling, threatening, hit her. The scene was hit by another patient who got hit by this one and his skull fractured. These are the inscriptions from our media. Fortunately, not all attacks on doctors and healthcare professionals are so radical and life-threatening but the increase in violence against doctors and nurses is evident. Violence does not necessarily have to be physical, but it can be verbal and psychological in terms of intimidation and threats, and under violence only uncivilized behavior is understood. Violence is an injury that threatens human self-respect and integrity. And therefore, the World Health Organization has defined violence as the intentional use of physical force or power for the purpose of threatening and applying it against one person, another person or group of persons or communities that result or are likely to result, by wounding, death or psychological harm to poor health. A British public body sponsored by the Ministry of Labour and Pension Care of Health and Safety Executive has defined violence at work as any incident that an employee is upset, intimidated and attacked. Doctors are health care holders. Because of their nature of work marked by demanding working conditions and working methods, working conditions, high responsibilities, shift and night work, contact with patients and their families and escorts, and are often exposed to violence precisely from patients themselves and their escorts, which damages the mental and physical health and working performance of the doctor, all of this applies to sisters. And as a result, only two months ago, sisters did one study that said that two thirds of them were highlighted, said that the attacks at the workplace were verbal, slightly more than a third with verbally were also physical violence. In the last five years, attacks on nurses have occurred even in 73% of health care institutions. It is alarming that most of the nurses who have experienced violence have not reported this violence, and as a reason for not reporting to a nurse most often state fear of creating additional problems. What do the doctors say? Even 93% of the doctors surveyed experienced some form of verbal or physical violence at work, 93%. And a physical attack occurred in 22% of health care institutions. So 83% of the doctors surveyed said they were verbal attacks, 17% physical. It is also worrying that doctors do not report their violence and say it is because they cite fear of creating additional problems, possible environmental reaction and fear of re-attack. And what do the principals say? The directors assessed safety in health institutions in the Republic of Croatia with an average score of 3.7 while even 96 surveyed doctors estimate that safety in healthcare institutions is not at the appropriate level. Half the facility has a porter during the day, and 43% only during the night. Also, half of the facilities have video surveillance, and only 7% of them are silent alarms that alert security services in case of need. Only one quarter of the health care facility has an employed security service for 0 to 24 hours. To conclude, the state of security in our institutions is not satisfactory. Both doctors and nurses are unprotected in their workplaces and therefore the Most Independent Lists Club will support these amendments to the law. We thank you for your understanding and finally put this article in this bill because it will further help protect nurses and doctors on a slightly higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90993	We're going to another club debate, the HDZ Representatives Club. Dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90994	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor. We have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. As the Secretary of State informed us in the very introduction of his presentation, these are the fourth amendments and additions of the KZ, and of course, why are we going to these changes? The harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the EU and some small doubts that have been changed in the implementation of the KZ in practice and the elimination of certain shortcomings. It should be pointed out that these amendments and additions go close to 3 directives, one recommendation, one directive in countering terrorism in relation to the prevention of fraud committed against the financial interests of the EU, the PIF directive, is the same as for the Republic of Croatia and the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and the European Parliament's directives on attacks on information systems where we have 3 criminal offences from the head of criminal offences against computer systems. So unauthorized access, damage to computer data and misuse of devices. As regards the Directive on the prevention of terrorism, these amendments and additions seek to ensure an effective and effective legal instrument as a responsible terrorist action, it is therefore important to introduce these amendments and amendments to the KZ, a criminal offence referred to in Article 9, which is a journey for the purpose of terrorism. I think it's definitely good about the fight against terrorism itself and everything that's been done and amended in other laws and strategies and recommendations that we've made so far. It's important to define this crime in our KZ as well. As regards the PIF Directive regarding the EU and the EU's financial interest in fraud and evasion, bribery, bribery, embezzlement and other criminal offences that were to be included in these amendments. As regards the attack directive on information systems, it is a good thing that our KZ has now inserted certain crimes that cover this topic since incrimination, concealing other people's computer data or programs, disabling access to other people's computer data or programs and supplementing the KZ where the introduction and concept, i.e. prescribes distribution as a new mode of conduct of criminal offences. As regards other changes and additions which do not relate to the EU’s gain and which do not require implementation in this KZ, they normally refer to certain criminal offences and certain non-technical matters that have been shown by practice and which have been unclear with the application of this KZ in practice. This is related to Article 55 of the General Works and Article 57 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The KZ's partial terms of condemnation, which the Secretary of State has explained to us, and what is to be achieved. It is important to point out that Article 87 is an article of the Treaty on the Functioning of the In order to comply with the definition of the victim of the Criminal Procedure Act, this distinction of direct and indirect victims and the biggest debate was introduced, and I mean this if you were also reviewing the public hearing, what was accompanied by the explanation of these amendments and additions, this is related to Article 315a which I think is definitely commendable, and this is the introduction of criminal acts, and also sanctions for coercion against healthcare professionals as a reaction to the emerging forms of violence that occur in our society regarding healthcare professionals acting in this way and public service in public health. In the debate and in the public debate in the comments of this law, there were a lot of debates and a lot of comments about others and some other occupations that are like, whether or not they should be mentioned, it was also for students and social workers, there were some and fewer pressures to mention them in special articles, but I think that the ministry definitely responded well, although they are normally commendable of interest, but we need to single out those healthcare professionals because unlike others who definitely have protection and through the responsible person, institutional health professionals and the applicable KZ are criminally responding, so it is appropriate that at this time they receive their special article on criminal offences and sanctions related to their protection. In all, the HDZ club will support these changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90995	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate, I'm the one who concludes it, and we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. I also thank the Secretary of State. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, first reading, P.Z.E. No.384, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when setting out the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most votes, 75 for, 22 abstentions and 2 votes against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90998	... It also prescribes competent authorities, border crossing points where such persons or transitees will be accepted, the way in which the requests for readmission and transit of information exchanges, the language of mutual address and communication, the means and conditions of transition of the necessary evidence and other technical issues are submitted. [[Specially enabled.]] The competent authorities referred to in Article 1 of the Implementing Agreement shall be two countries and shall find that the implementation of this Implementing Protocol will not require additional funding from the state budget, however, as it is a political agreement, it shall be subject to confirmation in accordance with Article 18. Law on the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts. Here is just information that currently in the Republic of Croatia on 30.6.2018, it is on a permanent stay of 337 Russian citizens and on a temporary 539, so slightly less than 900 Russian citizens are currently on a legal stay as foreigners in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u90999	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, we'll have a club debate. The first is the Live Wall and SNAGA Representatives' Club Ivan Pernar, but there is no one left and left without the right to speak. Second up, Club of HDZ Representatives, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91000	President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On the basis of Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 thereof, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, adopts the Final Proposal for a Law confirming the implementation protocol between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of an agreement between the European Community and the Russian Federation on the readmission of remission from 25 May 2006. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Act confirming the Implementing Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and the Russian Federation on readmission from 25 May 2006 is set out in the provisions of Article 140(1) of the Treaty on European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. After becoming a member of the EU on 1 July 2013, the Russian Federation initiated the conclusion of an implementing protocol between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the agreement between the European Community and the Russian Federation on readmission from 25 May 2006. In accordance with the agreement between the EC and the Russian Federation in the readmission drawn up in Sochi on 25 May 2006, which entered into force on 1 June 2007, the Agreement was published in the Official Journal of the EU, namely Article 20 of the Agreement, established the need to conclude the implementation protocols of the Russian Federation and of the EU in order to ensure the proper operational implementation of the Agreement and the framework established therein. As provided for in the Agreement, the provisions of the same Agreement shall take precedence over the provisions of any bilateral international agreement or readmission agreement of Article 20 of the Agreement, the content of the Implementing Protocol, i.e. the issues covered by the Protocol, shall be determined. The improvement and deepening of mutual cooperation in all areas is in the interest of both countries. In view of the increased migration tendencies, there is a need for the problem of readmission and transit of persons who are illegally entering or staying in the territory of the State to be regulated by the other Contracting Parties through the conclusion of the Implementing Protocol. Therefore, all persons who are re-accepted or transited shall be subject to a protocol. There is nothing we can change, we Croatia, that is, all countries that accept such contracts, it is clear that I cannot have an opinion or someone, another, one third opinion or advise something third. This law confirms the Implementing Protocol in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia has become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. The Implementing Protocol establishes the necessary legal framework for mutual cooperation between the two States, in the field of readmission pursuant to Article 20 of the Agreement, in accordance with this Implementing Protocol, the competent authorities for the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement and the Implementing Protocol in the process of submission and follow-up to the request for readmission, as well as the readmission procedure. It is clear there and we know that the competent authorities in the implementation, the provisions of the agreement, are in the Republic of Croatia the Ministry of Interior, as a central competent body, and in the Russian Federation it is the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation and the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation. The implementation of this law, as already stated by the State Secretary, does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, the basis for the adoption of this law, is in Article. 207. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, under which the laws to be approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are adopted by international agreements, as a rule in one reading, and the adoption procedure is initiated by the submission of the final proposal of the law and the confirmation of the international contract, as well as by what will be done in the light of the nature of the procedure for confirming international contracts, which also formally expresses the willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract, as well as the fact that, at this stage, the procedure is not possible to amend and supplement the text of the international contract. That is why this law is also passed as a final draft law and is voted in one reading. And I think it's clear to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91001	Thank you. We don't have any more reports, so I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law confirming the protocol between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of an agreement between the EC and the Russian Federation on readmission from 25 May 2006, second reading, P.Z. No. In 373, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. I find that a unanimous, 103 vote has been adopted by the Law confirming the protocol between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the implementation of the agreement between the EC and the Russian Federation on readmission since 25 May 2006.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91004	... The Republic of Albania's Republic of Albania's Council of Ministers on Police Cooperation was signed in Tirana on 20 January 2014 with a common desire to act more effectively in countering international threats and public security and combating international crime. [[Specially enabled.]] So far, the co-operation of police representatives of the two states, in fact... In accordance with the current agreement, the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Government of the Republic of Albania in the fight against terrorism, smuggling and drug abuse and as against organised crime concluded in Zagreb in 1993, and it will put the entry into force of this Agreement off-limits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The strong interest of both the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Albania is to promote and extend mutual cooperation. The signed agreement further regulates issues in the field of police cooperation, in particular the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences, especially in the case of illicit drug trafficking, weapons, explosive substances, counterfeit money and money laundering, as well as other issues such as witness protection, such as education and professional training of police officers. In addition, this Agreement provides for the possibility of sending liaison officers from one country to another and other technical issues. The Republic of Albania has already completed its internal procedure for the entry into force of this Agreement and has notified the Republic of Albania so there is an interest in ending our internal legal... that is, to confirm this contract and thus formally enter into force. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will not require any additional funding from the state budget, nor will it require an amendment or addition of existing laws, however, as it is subject to confirmation by an international political nature contract in accordance with Article 18. Law on the validation and enforcement of international contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91005	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" Representatives' Club. Dear colleague Ivan Wilibor Sincic, who is not here, loses his words. The second is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, dear colleague Marijan Kustic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91006	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are facing a final proposal for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on police co-operation. As Mr Katic, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, said on behalf of the motion, in the opening debate of this agreement, in an appropriate manner between Albania and Croatia, wants to regulate issues of mutual cooperation in the field of preventing and eliminating the dangers of public security and public order, preventing and persecuting criminal offences, combating cross-border crime, exchange of information, professional training of police officers, curbing corruption, sending liaison officers and protecting personal data. These issues directly affect the security of our citizens and beyond, that is, the EU's immediate neighbourhood. The outbreak of the migrant crisis and the issue of illegal migration have seen an ever-increasing need for better police cooperation between EU Member States, as well as with countries with which we are bordering territorial and overseas. Croatia and Albania as partner countries, NATO members continue their good long-standing intensive co-operation with the agreement. We at the HDZ Club advocate that our co-operation with the Republic of Albania continues through enhanced co-operation in the prevention of fires and prevention and protection against pollution of the Adriatic Sea, waste from land, sea waste problems that come in large quantities from Albania and Montenegro to Croatia's southern coast and islands. On the basis of all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this final draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on police co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91007	Thank you. Since we are no longer registered, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on Police Cooperation, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 374. The motion is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. I find it unanimous, with 98 votes to pass the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Albania and the Council of Ministers on police co-operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91010	Thank you very much, Mr. President, MPs and MPs. The Republic of Croatia has been party to the Convention on the Civil Rights of International Kidnapping since 8 October 1991. The proposed law detailedly regulates the conduct of administrative bodies and courts in the Republic of Croatia to the extent that the Convention itself leaves such discretion to the States Parties to the Convention. This law is to the fullest extent possible in line with the recommendations of the Haske Convention on International Private Law. The proposed law regulates the jurisdiction, powers and conduct of central authorities, courts and other bodies. The central authority shall be designated to receive, forward or forward requests and the possibility of conducting family mediation shall be prescribed. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional appropriations in the budget. Thank you very much. I'm at my disposal for all questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91011	Thank you. Do the representatives, the committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? If they don't, I'm opening a debate. The first in line is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, colleague Miro Bulj, is not here, losing his right to speak. Well, then he loses his right and his individual. The second is the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91012	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Parliament, state secretary Mađeric, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill aimed at protecting the child's welfare through the Convention on the Civil Rights of International Kidnapping signed in the Hague in 1980. While the Republic of Croatia has been a party to this convention since 1991. The non-compliance of domestic rules with the Convention with the European Court of Human Rights rulings in cases against the Republic of Croatia has been established, and therefore it is justified that the ministry of adoption of this single law, which would regulate all aspects related to the application of the Convention and allow for more effective implementation. The proposal for a law before us lays down the jurisdiction, authority and conduct of the central body of courts and other bodies with a view to the swift return of the taken or detained child with respect to the interest and well-being of the same child, which will certainly enable the precise determination of the time limits of conduct, an up-to-date and coordinated action in order to ensure the rapid return of the taken or detained child through the deadlines for handling. This draft law provides for the establishment of a court in the Republic of Croatia to be responsible for the conduct of a first-degree Convention and a second-degree court. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The adoption of this draft law will create a legal and institutional framework for the effective application of the Convention, all in accordance with the recommendations of The Hague Convention to protect the best interests and welfare of the child himself in the best possible way. In accordance with all of the above, the HDZ Club will support this proposal for a Law implementing the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnapping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91013	Thank you. We're going to another debate. SDSS representative club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91014	... The Parliament. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Dear Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. So, the Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of Conventions on the Civil Rights of the International Child Kidnapping, so as the Hague Convention on Civil Law aspects of International Child Kidnapping is said to be from the '80s. And it's been in effect for 20 years. The period of the last 20 years has rightly been called the period of the marriage crisis. As hard as it is to say, how often is the case of divorce and the end of the community of life precisely among partners of different citizenship, however, it is not rare to encounter sad statistics on international child abductions by such parents. It's been in the Republic since '95. 23 cases against persons who have unlawfully detained or deprived minor children have been recorded. Otherwise, the average number of such cases is about 10 a year. In 2017, the Ministry received 5 requests for the return of the child to the Republic of Croatia and 14 requests for the return of the child, i.e., an apology of 5 requests for the return of the child from the Republic of Croatia, and 14 requests for the return of the child to the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation The ministry received 7 requests for contact with a child located outside the Republic of Croatia. This globally accepted convention, ratified by 93 countries, including all EU members. Recently, in Croatia, it has become a subject of a broader discussion. The debate was triggered by a recent court decision, which unfortunately was not accepted with approval. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled in the case of K.E. against the Republic of Croatia which has established a violation of human rights by the Republic of Croatia and the right to respect for the private and family lives of the applicant. The infringement of the Convention has been established because of the excessive duration of the procedure for the return to the applicant and the unlawfully taken and detained child. The vast majority of the public's comments were just not positive, which means that there is not enough attention to present this convention to the public and educate wider proportions. No wonder the lack of understanding of the judicial decisions taken under this Convention by the public, and no great pressure on the judiciary. The Convention is a fundamental international instrument, and when it comes to the international abduction of children, although the concept of kidnapping is associated primarily with kidnapping by strangers, for the purpose of human trafficking, etc. The convention regulates the issue of international child abduction, primarily by parents, as well as by guardians or close family members. According to the preamble of the Convention, the interests of children are crucial. In cases of international child abduction, as well as in all high-risk divorce cases, the child is always a victim, and unfortunately it is parents who do not care about the best interests of their children. Psychological, and sociological research have shown that despite the fact that the kidnapper’s parents honestly believe that they are acting in the best interests of their child, children often suffer damage, including sociological and linguistic damage, and they also suffer from feelings of loss from their home. The Convention protects an emergency return to a country where the child had a habitual residence prior to illegal departure or detention because it is considered best to protect the child’s overall interests. The convention has more goals. The immediate return of the child is intended to relieve the psychological trauma caused by the abduction by one of the parents. In addition, the return of a child to a country of its usual residence prior to the illegal departure or detention of a child is returned to a country that has information about the child's current family life and is therefore the most measurable to determine what is in the best interests of the child. The Convention also has a preventive purpose, as its provisions clearly tell the kidnappers that illegal custody or detention of a child in another country will not lead to a change in the forum before which they will decide on parental care. In this way, they want to send a message to their parents that child abduction is not worth it. Any other course would be rewarding parents, parents, and would encourage further child abductions and taking justice into their own hands. The Convention simply requires the return of the child illegally taken or illegally detained in another Contracting State. Contracting States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that children are returned illegally or illegally detained in the territory of another Contracting State as soon as possible. As a rule, the parent from whom the child was taken is faced with almost insurmountable obstacles in order to bring the child back. Parents are forced to fight an unknown, often opposed legal system based on foreign language and foreign culture with all other problems. There's a problem, of course. It's hard to locate a child once it's crossed the border. The conduct of disputes abroad is expensive and accompanied by complications, the local side of the body is often unable or unwilling to provide assistance. Qualifications, the appointment of problems often pose a challenge for the court as well. The procedure or powers in the procedures under which the Convention is based are contained in several national rules, and we therefore consider the adoption of a single law which would regulate all aspects related to the application of the Convention and thus allow for the implementation of the procedure by the basis of the Convention. The procedure under the Convention requires the harmonised action of the State Administration and the Justice Authority, and the objective of ensuring a more effective and consistent implementation of the Convention can be better achieved by adopting a special law. A clear institutional and legal framework for more effective application of the Convention, in accordance with the recommendations of the Hague Conference, thus safeguarding the best interests and welfare of the child in the proceedings of illegal detention or detention of the child. Following the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support the Bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-07-04-0.u91015	We don't have any more reports, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. This would take us to the end of today's agenda. I announce that we continue tomorrow at 9.30 in a united discussion of three laws: Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families and 3. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War. At the end of the day tomorrow when we pass the 6th points we have planned and there will be a statement on amendments to the House Rental Act, so not a vote but just a statement on amendments. Thank you. I'll see you tomorrow. The session was interrupted at 1800 hours. Proposal for a Law implementing the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnap, first reading, P.Z. No. 377, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Law implementing the Convention on the Civil Rights of the International Kidnap and Others is hereby adopted, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find it unanimous, with 100 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
