ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u78213	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs. My topic today will be homeless in the Republic of Croatia. Homeless people in the Croatian Parliament are very rarely spoken of. Why we rarely talk about homeless people in the Croatian Parliament, because de facto no law applies to Croatian homeless people and we don't even have any European directives that would edit the problem of Croatian homeless. On the other hand, parliamentary parties and also outside parliamentary parties, homeless people are not as interesting as a particular interest group, as a particular electoral body, because they de facto do not go to the elections so much and they are a very marginalised group in Croatian society. Today, we have a relatively large number of homeless people living on the road or in shelters, hostels, and inadequate health care. Also before the transition to the Republic of Croatia, the number of homeless was small and at the time it was rare for people to lose their jobs and end up on the road. According to Croatian Homeless Network estimates, Croatia is currently more than 1000 homeless and homeless. Today we have 14 shelters, i.e. overnight stays in various materials throughout Croatia and the problem of homelessness is mostly reduced to local levels. The total capacity of the shelter and accommodation in Croatia is up to 420 users and homeless have one thousand. So actually over 500 homeless people live on public surfaces and we have no place to put them at all. In Rijeka homeless people are often located next to the terminal, there is an object that is covered and sometimes I know how to pass through and ask myself questions, which is their meaning, whether they have any hope in life at all and actually, whether someone sees them as people who need help and who need to be integrated into the system of work. What is really unfair and is about the fundamental ignorance of this issue by the legislator, is that the 2013 Social Care Act passed a provision whereby homeless people at shelters do not have the right to permanent financial assistance, i.e. guaranteed minimum fee. So they don't get any cash help, except sometimes once in a while. The one who laid down such a provision had made sense that those in shelters had everything they needed. And that they may have food, and spend the night, and shoes, and shoes. But that's not exactly the way it is. On the other hand, if they want to integrate into the system of work, they need more decent clothes, and if they do not have a minimum fee, at least a month of 800 kn, how to buy, at all, any more decent clothes and go to the employer and try to get a job. Many of them also have children, how to go to see a child, if there is not 100 kn in their pocket to buy a bus ticket. A part of the Croatian homeless even gives us access to health care. Namely, after losing their jobs, those who did not apply within 30 on HZZ, and many did not, because they had to resolve their existence, because they were left without a roof over their heads, were left without the right to health insurance. This means that there is also a significant problem of access to health care for these people, almost a third of them having chronic health problems. Employers, it often happens that employers do not want to hire homeless people, because they have this status in public and that actually if they hire a homeless person, they will only have problems. And so, as a solution, it would be to finance them from the compensation of the system of work and not perhaps from social care, because in this way they would become more involved in this work context and it would be easier to integrate them into the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u78214	Thank you. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] Now we're going to have a united debate on the next five points. This is: - Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on patents, second reading, P.Z. No. 271 - Final proposal of the Law amending the Mark Act, second reading of P.Z. No. 272 - Final proposal of the Act amending the Act on Industrial Design, second reading of P.Z. No. 273 - Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on the designations of geographical origin and designations of origin of products and services, second reading, P.Z. No. 274 - Final proposal of the Act amending the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Horizonal Products, second reading of P.Z. No. 275 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 2. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia in relation to Art. 172. 190. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I would now like to ask the proposal's representative to give an additional explanation of the proposal. With us is the Honorable Mako Glunčić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Science and Education. Here you go. ... He's already given his friend a replica. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81289	... products. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's a microphone, isn't it? And it's on. Okay. Finally, the amendments to these laws regarding the legal remedy bring these laws into line with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the State Administration System Act in such a way that decisions of the State Intellectual Property Office as the central authority of the State Administration can no longer be declared by the appeal, but only the administrative dispute can be initiated instead. Namely, the existing legislative framework governing the right to recognise industrial ownership in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as a legal remedy as regards decisions on first-degree procedures for the recognition of industrial property rights has been laid down by the Institute of Appeal, and the Law on patents and the Joint Institute of Appeals as a secondary body in all procedures for the recognition of industrial ownership in the jurisdiction of the State Institute of Intellectual Property. Since the introduction of such a solution in 2008, a reform of the administrative trial and the legislative framework governing the administrative procedure has been implemented, and in practice a number of problems have arisen in the functioning of the Boards of Appeal in the area of industrial property rights as a special secondary body. Therefore, at this point, there is a need for appropriate changes to legal solutions. In this regard, the final proposals for the law are proposed to abolish, as I said, the Institute of Appeal and the termination of the work of the Board of Appeal in this case, as the current special independent second-degree body, and instead, so far the appeal as a legal remedy for decisions in the process of recognising industrial ownership, the administrative action of the Administrative Court in Zagreb is prescribed and its solution by an urgent procedure. The final proposal of the patent law stipulates that the Board of Appeals which so far existed continue to work until all the procedures for the recognition of industrial property that the State Intellectual Property Institute has decided before the amendments to the law in question are legally resolved, after which they cease to work. These final proposals of the law seek to ensure greater legal certainty and efficiency in the process of protecting the exercise of industrial property rights. This will be achieved by shortening the duration of the procedure, reducing the degree of review of decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute by 3 to a future 2 degree. In fact, the existence of an even 3-degree review of decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute further slows down the achievement of legal certainty for parties in the process and of third parties. In addition to the above, the non-compliance of formal systems of the Boards of Appeal and their members with the State Administration system in practice continuously creates problems that hinder their effective action, and on several occasions such problems have caused long-term interruptions in their work and have caused legal uncertainty regarding the validity of industrial property rights. Finally, the final proposals for the law also prescribe the urgency of the administrative action procedure, since the speed of resolving these issues affects legal certainty as the party in the procedure and related their viability, competition on the market and the legal certainty of third parties concerned. Such a provision will have a positive impact on the economic climate, i.e. the economic movement, competitiveness of the Croatian economic system, of course, and investment in science that is in line with the strategy of fostering innovation of the Republic of Croatia, is in line with the industrial strategy and also with the smart specialisation strategy. Also, the regulation of the jurisdiction of only one administrative court, in this case of the Administrative Court in Zagreb, of the 4 competent administrative courts, seeks to ensure the possibility of economic and effective specialisation of judges, mostly in highly complex cases in the area of patents that require specific expertise. For the implementation of the amendments to those laws, there is no need to provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government, since it is not expected to have an impact on the total state budget. The provisions of the final draft laws do not differ from the provisions of the draft laws on the basis of which the first reading was carried out in the Croatian Parliament, since the Committee on Law and also the Committee on Education, Science and Culture had no objections, and there were also no additional observations and proposals in the debate in the Croatian Parliament to supplement or amend the draft laws. Finally, given all of the above, it is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the final draft laws amending the laws in question governing the recognition of the right of industrial ownership in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81290	Thank you, Secretary of State. We have one replica. Dear fellow Sokol, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81291	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, fellow MPs. You mentioned the importance of intellectual property on the basis of this law and that it stimulates investment in science, research and development, which we all agree is crucial to the Republic of Croatia. So that part of the job is important in terms of these private investments, it means that private companies, businessmen are being stimulated to invest in research and development and to benefit from it at the end of the day and some benefit. However, I think it is also important to mention this part that is in the ingenuities, let's say state, primarily state and as regards European funds. So I think that, as far as I'm concerned, I think a very large investment cycle is under way in the field of science, research and development, stimulated by the money of European funds. So since I know that you have prepared many of these projects if you could briefly tell us what projects you were preparing while it was in your jurisdiction, which is what they are talking about, so that we can break this picture to science and education and research in Croatia. So here's if you can just say a few figures here specifically.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81292	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81293	I thank you for asking, in principle, a very good question. During my work at the Ministry of Science while I was still State Secretary of Science, you were in one part aide to the Minister of Science. So investment in centres of excellence has been achieved, so they run centres of excellence and the value of investment at 5 years is 380 million kuna. Then they launched these large infrastructure projects that will only be signed contracts worth around a billion kuna, then doctoral students, so a programme of funding of PhDs worth about 500 million kunas was launched. Now UKF projects will start, these are projects with Croats in diaspora in collaboration with Croats who, scientists here, are worth some 35 million kuna. And at the end of the larger projects, these are two major strategic projects and two major projects worth more than a million kunas that have been signed, a billion kunas, a pardon, which are signed right now. And when we add it all together, I have here, working somewhere between 2.5 billion kunas, it means over the last year it's been invested in science in Croatia, through the institutions of the Ministry of Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81294	Thank you. We are now going to discuss HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Tomislav Sokol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81295	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Madam Director, fellow MPs, as many of you as there are in the assembly. So we have a package of final drafts of IPR laws in front of us, and I'm not going to renumber them now because actually the matter of all of them, that is, all of these changes and additions, is actually the same. The subject of these laws, i.e. the amendment of existing laws, are legal remedies for decisions of the State Intellectual Property Institute. In 2008, the Institute of Appeals on the decisions of the Institute through first-degree procedures, recognitions, industrial property rights was introduced for the specificity of the process of recognition of industrial property rights or other administrative procedures. According to the then applicable Law on Administrative Disputes, the possibility of appeal was excluded against the decisions of the Ministry and of the central administration and all administrative disputes was resolved exclusively by the administrative court of the Republic of Croatia, meaning only one administrative court that existed at the time, which resulted in its work being burdened primarily by quantitative and additionally due to the fact that he had to decide in very numerous and different administrative areas, resulting in a long period of time needed to come up with the decisions of that court. In this case, according to the rules in force at the time, the Law on Administrative Disputes only questioned the legality of the proceedings carried out until it entered into the content of the administrative matter itself. Since the introduction of the Institute of Appeals, the establishment of the Boards of Appeal mentioned here in 2008, there have been significant changes in the system of administrative trial in the Republic of Croatia and there have also been some formal legal and financial problems, i.e. the reasons that led to the review of the role and purpose of the Boards themselves in the intellectual property decision-making process. The work of the Board of Appeals has been hampered over longer periods due to a series of problems both formal and financial. The following problems have arisen as the most prominent. The question of the authorisation of the Boards of Appeal for decision-making in the context of their formal status as they should be public authorities or public bodies, meaning in that sense the laws were not fully harmonised, the inability to appoint the President, the Vice-President and members in changing the mandate, due to the insufficient number of interests of experts in this area. Problems related to the possible indirect conflict of interest of appointed members given the previous point that there are simply not enough of such experts, most of them, in fact, as soon as they are in the Board of Appeals, are in some way in conflict of interest. Further, so that in this sense it was necessary to arrange it. This problem is also linked to determining the appropriate amount of compensation for the work of the Boards of Appeal in view of the specificity of the complexity of the cases as well as the allocation of appropriate budgetary resources for their financing. In addition to this section of the Board of Appeal, I would also like to highlight the new legal regulation adopted in 2010 and, above all, I am referring to the new Law on Administrative Disputes as well as the Law on Courts. So that year, a two-stage administrative trial with 4 first-degree administrative courts and the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia was introduced, in which the verification of the legality of administrative acts was ensured, both in a procedural sense and in a material sense. So there was a major reform of the administrative dispute, including as part of the EU accession process, it was one of the requirements in judicial reform that we had to meet. So what is particularly important, however, is that two-stage judicial protection is introduced. So what we didn't have before and that was the reason to introduce the Board of Appeal that you previously had only one administrative court that was final instance and in that sense simply lacked that additional degree of verification. Since we now have 4 administrative courts and a High Administrative Court, two-degree judicial protection is secured. Furthermore, an analysis of the applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia from the part-circuit of other state administration bodies which, as well as the institution, belong to the category of state administrations as the central authority of the state administration, means the State Institute for Radiological and Nuclear Security, the State Geodetic Administration, the State Authority for Measurement, etc., means that they have the same authority in the administrative procedure as the State Institute for Intellectual Property has shown that neither the solutions of those bodies are permitted to appeal but that administrative dispute can be initiated directly. So such provisions are contained in a series of laws, so as not to list them now, there is the Civil Protection System Act, the HGSS Act, the Measurement Act, etc.. It is also not only such a legal solution for the central authorities of the state administration but also for many agencies. Let's just say that the Competition Protection Act, where we have the Competition Protection Agency, means where decisions can also be initiated directly by the administrative dispute, there is no possibility of appeal. There is still a public procurement procedure, so the state commission, etc. Which means that this kind of arrangement, where we have a direct management dispute, and there's no right to appeal, is nothing unusual in our legal system. Finally, he would mention that the debates, particularly on the Committee on Education and Science, also raised the issue of obligations towards the EU. It means that the introduction of the appeal councils has also been adopted in the EU negotiations process. However, what he would point out is this. So within the EU, Member States are free to define their own... rules, including criminal proceedings, civil proceedings, but of course administrative proceedings and administrative disputes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They are related to the foreheads of equivalence and efficiency. What does that mean? So the principle of equivalence means that the procedural protection of the rights arising from EU rules must not be weaker than those arising from domestic rules. Furthermore, the principle of effectiveness means that the protection of the rights arising from European regulations must be effective in a procedural sense, regardless of how it has been implemented. In other words, national procedural law must not make in the dust protection of subjective rights, based on EU norms and rights, impossible or excessively difficult. So in this sense, such a two-stage administrative trial, where we have two points after the administrative court in Zagreb, and also the whiskey administrative court, I think they provide both of these fundamental principles. And in that sense, it is important to stress that, compared to what was negotiated there in 2006, it was '07. And '08. when the Board of Appeal has been introduced, this reform of the administrative dispute has changed the situation and made it possible for these amendments to the law to take place while at the same time complying with those principles of EU law, and I think that part is not at all questionable. So to conclude, I think this is a good reform, that these are good and quality amendments to the law, that it will simplify the whole process, that it will improve the protection of intellectual property rights and the HDZ Club supports this law for these reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81296	Thank you, fellow Hawk. No more reports, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're going to vote now. Final draft law amending the patent law, second reading, P.Z. No. 271. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the patent law, please vote. I find that with 76 votes to pass a law amending the patent law. Here you go, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81298	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm looking for a 10 minute break so we can agree on a further vote [[Grmoya raid: Explain the break, President, ask to explain the break, do not have the majority.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81299	Wait a minute, here's your colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81300	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Article 248 has been injured. Rules of Procedure, Mr. Bacic had to ask for a break on the agenda and explain it. Don't wave your finger at me, no. So there's the president of the Parliament and a valuable Bucharest who's going to interpret it, and it's mine to say that it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure and that it should have been explained, tied to a point, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81301	Thank you very much. Wait a minute, colleagues and colleagues, just a minute. So when I approved a break of five clubs that asked for a break, the same thing that made you look for a break wasn't about the agenda because you were talking about Agrokor. ... All right, colleague Maras, please. [[- Intruder Maras, you don't understand.]] And I've granted you a break. Now my colleague Bacic has asked for a break in the same way as all of you, and I have to approve that break, please. [[Grmoya Intruder: No quorum.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81302	Mr. President, I asked for a break in order to agree on a further vote on what I have under my Rules of Procedure right and we do not need any further explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81303	Thank you very much. We'll continue at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. Thank you. It's 10:00. 10 o'clock. We are now going to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 242 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would ask the applicant's representative to give an additional explanation. With us is respected Mario Šilek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81345	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Water Act is before you in the second reading. As you know, at the 6th session held on 8 December 2017, this House reached a conclusion that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Water Act was adopted, and all comments, proposals and opinions were addressed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as the Proposer, in order to prepare this final draft of the law. In accordance with the adopted observations and proposals of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament, a statement of certain provisions in the legal and nomotechnical sense has been made. Furthermore, the comments of the relevant authorities on the draft final draft law have been accepted and certain provisions have been further improved in relation to the draft law. Taking into account all of the above, this final draft of the law, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 8 March 2018. I note that from the debate in the Croatian Parliament, in the first reading, there was not a single comment on the concrete article of the bill, and we have taken note of the principles of the observed representatives, but they could not be accepted, that is, incorporated into concrete articles of the law. In order to facilitate monitoring, I note that the differences between the solutions proposed by this final proposal of the law are more detailed in the normative part of the law, as well as the reasons why these differences occurred. On the final draft of the law, the Legislative Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 51st session, on 14 March 2018, which found that this law was fully in line with the provisions of the primary and secondary sources of EU law, and that committee had no objection to the text of the final draft law and unanimously supported its adoption. Once again, I remind you of the fundamental issues that are being regulated by this final draft of the law. Further coordination has been carried out with relevant EU directives, in the areas of water and this Water Framework Directive, the Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Directive on the assessment of flood risk management and, in line with the commitments made by the relevant EU pilots, among other things, the subject of the regulation of the law. The Water Act now refers to all water, without exception to both groundwater and surface water, including coastal waters, territorial seas, mineral geothermal waters with regard to achieving water protection targets. Therefore, the use of coastal mineral and geothermal waters remains special laws regulated, these are laws in the field of maritime, energy and mining, and the protection of these waters, i.e. all these waters that I have listed, are prescribed by the Water Act. Secondly, the definition of water activities has been introduced and this has been addressed, accumulation, storage, purification and distribution of surface groundwater and collection, treatment and discharge of waste water, which has also been a condition for EU pilots. The effects of the definition are visible in the amendments to the Water Economy Financing Act. The other definitions have been amended, completed or deleted in part for compliance with EU pilot requirements, and partly for improvement. Thirdly, the procedure for determining the dominant public interest, for procedures which, in the process of assessing the impact on the environment, establish a significant negative impact on the environment, and is therefore assessed as unacceptable. The proposal for a decision on the predominant interest and the absence or absence of that interest shall be referred by the Ministry to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which makes the final decision. In addition, the provisions of the previous flood risk assessment including flood risk maps and flood risk maps have been further regulated, as well as the flood risk management plan, which was also an EU pilot's requirement. The new provisions on the review, harmonisation of water legal licences and other acts with the water management plan have also been laid down, thus meeting the European Commission's request from the bilateral meeting of 3 July 2014. In addition, a special legal regime is arranged for the construction of water structures for the production of electricity that are built on water good and public water good or extended public water good regardless of whether the investor is private or has a full or majority share in it. The investor of water structures for the production of electricity built on public water wells can build them on the basis of the right to build on a 99-year period, exceptionally from that accumulation, drain and waterway channels and tunnels, the investor builds them for the benefit of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia because the accumulations are physically inseparable from the land under the accumulations. The transitional provisions of this law allow the establishment of a right to build or to manage certain parts of hydroenergy facilities for the production of electricity built on public water good in favour of Croatia's electricity industry. The ownership of the Republic of Croatia will be maintained over built accumulations, water supply and drain channels and tunnels for the purpose of ensuring water flow, while Croatia's electricity industry will acquire the right to build on other parts of existing hydro-energy facilities built on public water well-being for 99 years while only the right to manage on the same deadline will be acquired at the accumulations, inlet and drain channels and tunnels. Finally, we can say this law will allow the closure of eu pilots related to those directives as well as the resolution of significant issues for the water economy of which one of the most important issues is the legal regime of water structures for the production of electricity. Taking into account the above and the fact that it is an extremely important law on Croatian legislation, I expect a constructive debate on this final draft of the law and its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81346	Thank you. We have one replica, dear colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81347	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. You said it yourself, and that's what the law defined, that in terms of this Water Act, territorial seas are also considered. Here I would single out an important distraction so there wouldn't be any confusion. It may be considered waters in terms of water protection and management, but when it comes to a public welfare and water well-being, it should be pointed out that this is not the case with a territorial sea which remains a maritime good. So I think it's very important to point out, given the different way of concessioning, the approach to governance, etc., etc. Otherwise, I certainly support such law-making in the right order, which will allow for a simpler investment cycle for Croatia's electricity and other investors when it comes to the construction of hydro-energy facilities. That's what I wanted to point out in particular, so when it comes to water and the territorial sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81348	Thank you. Would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81349	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Yes, I would agree with you, as I have pointed out, meaning the legal regime of territorial waters remains under other laws, and the aim of this was to enable comprehensive water protection. So this prescribes only water protection that we have water protection both on land and in coastal waters and territorial waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81350	Now we could talk to the committee's reporters, but I don't think they're here, so we're going to have a discussion. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Pero Ćosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81351	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished promoters, colleagues and colleagues. This Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Water in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia fully transposes the provisions of the Directive establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, the Directive on the treatment of municipal waste water and the Directive on the assessment of flood risk management. There is also compliance with horizontal national rules that have come into force, such as the Law on Spatial Planning, the Construction Act and the Environmental Protection Act. In addition to that, the obligation to review the harmonisation of water legal permits and other acts in order to adapt to environmental objectives is introduced, the obligation to make public available to previous flood risk assessment, hazard maps, risk maps and flood risk management plans. I will remind you once again what colleagues have now discussed that this law now applies to all water, without exception to groundwater, surface waters including coastal waters, territorial seas, mineral and geothermal waters in order to protect the environment, and the issue of the use of coastal mineral and geothermal waters remains special laws in the field of maritime and energy, and their protection is prescribed by this law. This law finally clarifys the issues of ownership of the right to build and manage hydro-energy facilities that HEP has built on water goods. The law reserves the right to ownership of the Republic of Croatia over the accumulations, inland waterways and tunnels, as they ensure the continuity of the water flow that has been marred by the construction of accumulations and reorientation of the water flow. A HEP is provided with two types of rights, the first is the right to build water goods for the facilities of the dam, water chambers and other facilities used exclusively for the production of electricity. Another right is the management of the accumulations, waterways and drains, which is the same as the quality of the rights that Croatian waters achieve over the land of the public water supply. This law, under its management within the meaning of Article 24 of this Act, is considered to be the business of investors in the construction of water buildings, which is their maintenance, storage and use for the purposes of which the buildings serve. The right of construction is based on 99 years without compensation, and while it lasts, the right management of HEP over the accumulations and other drains and waterways and tunnels takes place. In this way, HEP will continue to manage the hydro-energy facilities uninterrupted, while the water well and part of the hydro-energy water structures that are necessary to ensure the continued water regime remain owned by the Republic of Croatia. The same regime is also foreseen for the construction of new energy facilities, whether it is a private investor of HEP or a third business entity. In the first debate on this Law, the Proposer accepted a series of proposals and opinions and installed them in the final draft law. In addition to respecting a number of remarks of new technical and legal importance, compliance with the relevant rules of the agricultural administration has been carried out. One of the changes is contained in Art. 72. The final proposal of the Law governing the exemption from the general rule that concessions for the economic use of water are not necessary for the Republic of Croatia, for local and regional self-government units or for legal persons to whom the Republic of Croatia and those units are the sole shareholders or founders with the exclusive decision-making right. This Regulation regulates the exemption from that general rule, the exclusiveness of public investors from obtaining a concession in such a way that concessions for the use of water power for the production of electricity are nevertheless necessary for legal persons whose only shareholder or founder, units of local and regional self-government, and the reason for this introduction is that the production of electricity constitutes an economic activity in which the sale of electricity generates significant income, and where profit-making entities in the good economy manner do so and a significant profit is obtained from concessionaires’ income from pre-taxation can bring significant benefits to society through concession compensation. It is also regulated that concessions for the use of water power for the production of electricity to legal persons which the Republic of Croatia is the sole shareholder, shareholder and founder with exclusive decision-making rights are issued at the request of the Law on concessions. The aim of this arrangement is to avoid objecting to conflicts of interest to a possible competitive process. This means, if the Republic of Croatia had announced a public competition for the award of a concession for the production of electricity at a specific location, the share of the water flow of a river and on the same application of HEP, another domestic or world producer of electricity, it could be complained about that competition because HEP is, for some time, I am sure, working on pre-studys and studies to examine suitable locations for the production of electricity, which would be interpreted as having privileged information and would be, i.e. there would be a conflict of interest. So, that part is still being arranged and HEP gets concessions on demand, which is made possible by the concession law. Where there is no risk of a conflict of interest from a concession for the use of water power for the production of electricity to legal persons whose units of local and regional self-government are the sole participant, shareholder or founder with exclusive decision-making rights shall be given in the procedure of the prescribed Law on concessions in a competitive procedure or in a public competition. These amendments to the Water Act are further decorated and so on. the additional complementary activities of the water service provider which cannot carry out any other municipal activities without legal regulation, nor economic or commercial activities, and the purpose of this arrangement is to enable suppliers to use their full potential, their technical and other capacities with regard to the provision of water services or as a result of the provision of water services to suppliers. According to the applicable Water Act, the water service provider could additionally carry out 3 activities, and these new amendments to the Law add 4 new activities, of course related to the activities of water services or resulting from the provision of water services. The three activities that have so far been, that is, sampling, testing of the health regularity of water for human consumption, for their own purposes, the second has been the implementation of water connections and sewerage in its distribution area, the third is the verification of the hydrometers and the preparation of the waterways for certification, and 4 new activities prescribed by this amendment of the Law are the production of electricity in the process of carrying out public water supply and public disposal activities, including sales, if they meet the conditions laid down in the specific conditions. For example. In the process of treatment of waste water on a treatment device in anaerobic mud treatment, gas is created that can be used in a biogas plant for the production of electricity which can also be used for its own purposes, and the law allows and sells that energy, of course, with the conditions of specific conditions for the production and sale of electricity. The fifth activity is the supply of water purified in the wastewater treatment device for re-use purposes, including sales. Namely, this water, depending on the degree of purification, can be used further as technical water or water for irrigation, especially where there are no sufficient amounts of water, e.g. Dalmatian islands. And the sixth is the supply of processed mud resulting from the process of treatment of waste water, including sales. So, if the mud is clean enough and harmless enough, it can be used and sold for agricultural purposes. The seventh is the management of construction and other non-hazardous waste resulting from the maintenance of municipal water buildings if it meets the conditions laid down in specific rules. I would like to point out why the Water Act is an extremely important law. It regulates the legal status of water, water goods and water buildings, water quality management and quantity, water protection against harmful activities, detailed... disposal and irrigation, public water supply and public disposal activities, and specific activities for water management purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By adopting the legal acquis of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has also taken over regulations that affect the definition of future water management policy, and therefore the Republic of Croatia is obliged to meet European standards in water management and therefore these amendments to the Law are necessary, and starting with the fact that all life forms and all human activities are more or less water-related, the importance of water relations and the meaning of all the legislative documents governing this relationship is clearly achieved. Economic development and urbanisation lead to a huge increase in water needs, as well as a threat to water resources and the aquatic environment. The profession estimates that by 2050 only 50% more water will be used for food production compared to the quantity used today. That is why our task is to develop policies and strategies for the regulation, exploitation and protection of water resources, by the more the Republic of Croatia is grouped into a group of relatively rich countries where water and water problems are not yet sharpened, water resources are not yet limiting the development factor. Finally, he would point out that water is not like other natural resources commercial goods but is a public good, an inheritance to be preserved, protected and treated as such. It is therefore necessary to further integrate water protection and sustainable management into other areas such as energy, transport, agriculture, fisheries, regional policy and tourism. The HDZ Club will therefore support the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Water Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81352	I'd like to thank my colleague, Cossic. Before we move forward with the debate, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Electrical School from Zagreb, welcome. Let's move on with the debate now. [[Applause.]] On behalf of the HSS MPs' club, however, he is not here to lose his right to speak. Also, the club of GLAS and HSU representatives respected colleague Mrak-Taritash is not here, losing his right to speak as well as the first for individual debate, respected counterpart Franjo Lucic. So we're going to continue now with a respected colleague, Josip Djakic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81353	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State and Madam Assistant Minister. So here is today's law, which is before us in the second reading, clearly speaks of what is regulated, amended, legal status of water, water goods, water buildings as well as their construction, maintenance of water management planning documents, concessions for water management and use, as well as for public services and works of institutions implementing or participating in the implementation of water management activities of public water supply and public draining, in particular activities necessary for water management and supervision of the implementation of this law. Everything is defined by this law and it is essentially in the given moments through these three pilots in line with European directives. The improvements that have taken place clearly speak of how to continue to manage the waters as a wealth of the Republic of Croatia and we believe that we have made some progress in the legal frameworks. But what I want to say is a risk management plan from floods of those same waters that are beneficial to us, which are good for us and without what the public can say, there is no life without water. But the water is at some point and the threat of the population, the economic facilities, and so the flood risk management plan is clearly defined through this law and is an integral part of this law. What I want to point out is that good law should be implemented. To carry out in every segment of his so that there will be no flood if today we have the regulation of all our channels, first, second and third order, their cleanup so that the capacity of these channels is as high as possible to accept the major rainfalls in the case of elemental disasters, then we come to the point that these canals are poured in our rivers and our rivers are not cleaned. And in that problem, I would even point out that it was possible to place that the elemental disasters such as rain, snow, etc., are not the only cause of our floods in the Republic and the elementary disasters that occur but also the clogging or build-up of floods in our rivers because the troughs have no more absorption options than they have ever had, because they are from half a metre to two feet [2.5 m] high deposits in our riverbeds that are not cleaned even though this law and previous law regulated the exploitation of mineral raw materials, they occur, or occur in such a reduced range that is not sufficient to make the capacity of the inflatable rivers as high as possible, i.e.e. They use the rivers themselves, and then what's outside of the trough, they're protective embankments, watery areas. I believe every man understands what I'm talking about, what I'm talking about. So the flood risk management plan has to be intensified to clean up the riverbeds so that the water reception capacity is as high as we do on our first, second and third rivers, so it's necessary to clean up the riverbeds themselves. If water and danger were clearly spoken in this flood risk management plan containing adequate risk management targets, and I would not only put as one of the main targets the construction of the embankment to the sky or the rise of the riverbed above the surface of the country, it is unacceptable, it is unequivocally unequivocal than cleaning the troughs at their level, extracting mineral raw materials, sand and gravel as an economic activity that Croatia has left behind and which, in its ten-year use, surely has a loss of 5 billion kuna imported from Serbia, Hungary, Republika Srpska and BiH. The entire corridor 5c is built on gravel, ours, imported from these neighbouring countries. Since the border line on the river is being held somewhere on half the river, they're pulling from their side, of course the hill is rolling into a hole and so our gravel is selling to us. I had the right to say this because at some thematic session of the Commission for the Assessment of damages from elemental disasters we started with this topic and it is good that today this law is before us which needs to be strictly applied in every detail. And we can't even allow environmentalists who are on every economic activity in our rivers to rise to their backs, use everything to prevent an economic activity that aims to protect them from floods. So an increase in the volume of water reception in our rivers that are stocked would clearly prevent floods happening, and the Republic of Croatia would contribute to an additional activity called the exploitation of mineral raw materials in favour of our construction companies, businesses and private companies. I would also like to point out that what we are doing today and what the regulation allows for the exploitation of mineral raw materials from our rivers to be done only for the purpose of creating barriers and spilling into flood defenses, I think it's actually just a drop in the sea because so far we've been importing the gravel and sand in bags from the outside. And that's what the problem is for me, and it's unacceptable. And I believe that in the future this law will be applied from article to article and that the Minister will define by his regulations and regulations what it is to exploit sand and gravel as described in Article 71 in paragraph 5 of the renewable bed area relevant to the water regime. Where the concession referred to in Article 1 of this Article cannot be effected without the right to build on public water well-being, the provisions of Article 16 of this Act shall apply to that construction. Right of management, use of land water, etc. I think that pebblying or exploiting mineral raw materials in the form of sand and gravel is an economic activity that we must no longer neglect or stop. It is generally useful in our society, it contributes to the income of units of local self-government, regional self-government from concessions and the state itself. It enables mutually consequent and contribution of funds that would be invested in the defence against floods in... The dikes, in the construction of the dikes, but first of all, cleaning up the troughs of our rivers is an imperative from which we must not give up and we cannot allow any security guard of nature who has not moved any bird in the event of a flood, not a single nest of these birds when large waters come, not to move to another location to save them, they are giving us lessons and they are telling us that we must not exploit mineral raw materials on our rivers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, by welcoming this law, I appeal to all stakeholders and all MPs and MPs to continue to follow, we see the application of this law and these legal provisions as well as compliance with European directives through these articles included in this law. But also to follow what's called maintaining the troughs of our rivers that are caused by floods, and I think even one of the biggest causes. Because when you look at what shares you have raised riverbed levels by half a meter, up to two feet [2.5 m] you get statistics that are frapantic, which talk about how important it is, or even almost one-third lower water flow through our rivers by such blockages, and therefore we have to stick to business, solve and apply the law in each segment, and especially say flood protection, and as a prevention must be cleaning the troughs of our rivers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81354	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. First came the honorary colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81355	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Djakić, you have rightly referred to the maintenance of the waterways of our rivers with two aspects. On the one hand, because of the extraction of gravel and sand, then clearly in this sense it contributes to the economic development of that part of Croatia and on the other hand to facilitate the wateriness of the rivers, whether it is Sava, whether it is Drava. This is the Danube, more or less, one can speak less of it. In this regard, Croatia also established the Water Roads Agency, and on the other hand we became a member of the Sava Commission. So I would trace what you said and appeal to Croatian waters, but in any case also to the Resorving Ministry and the Waterway Agency, i.e. the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure, that in this sense you spoke of, therefore, about economic exploitation and, on the other hand, about the wateriness of the river really approaches these activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81356	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, counterpart Bačić, yes, the waterways, I didn't actually mention them, they're totally abandoned, they don't work, and we have a responsibility, and according to the Paradise Convention, we have signed on the airworthiness of the roads. And your Delta Neretva is blocked by sand and sand, stone and gravel are imported from Albania by ships. Equally, Drava is a waterway 11km and the Waterway Agency, and now the Water Agency, in their ten-year work, has not earned a single salary. In addition to a particular project, they too need to be reconsidered. They order the extraction of gravel in the Drava River, in the winter port of Osijek and the transfer of the same gravel to another place in the same river. So I think you can imagine what this is all about. About the biggest Croatian nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81358	Thank you. Comrade Uncle, it's your turn now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81359	Thank you very much. Comrade Djakić, you have devoted most of your debate to the harmful effects of water especially when because of the great rainfalls, i.e. The rain comes and floods. I will only remind here that five years ago, precisely because of the great rainfall, there have been numerous natural disasters, landslides, slopes, floods along the Bednja and Plitvice rivers where the damage has been estimated at 110, 100 to 105 million kuna. Now Croatia's waters are preparing flood defenses to prevent embankments and retentions, and the total investment is estimated at 120 million kuna. However, I volunteered for the replica precisely because of this assumption that both neighbouring Hungary and BiH can clean up the riverbeds and Croatia can't. We literally buy our gravel and sand, literally our own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81360	Reply from fellow Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81361	Thank you very much. My fellow Uncle, you have fully understood what I am talking about, that our neighboring countries, with our consent, exploited gravel and sand and I said it was happening. A boat with a vacuum mechanism pulls a meter from the border line, creates a huge space, rolls our gravel into it and sells to us. And it's a Croatian mind. That's what we've been doing here for the last 10 years. That's what's inappropriate and why no one's ever been held accountable. I am now the next thematic session before the board, in which the conclusions must be, that they are not only natural disasters, floods, caused by the downfalls, but also by the desolation of the crusts of our rivers. And that's what's safe. Imports from Hungary, imports from Serbia, Republika Srpska and BiH are importers, corridor... built in the manner of gravel and sand from Sava, from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from Bosnia from the Republic of Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81362	Thank you. Now it's your honorary colleague Križanić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81363	Col. Djakić, thank you for starting this topic, and I would like to say that together we have launched this topic and as chairman of the Commission's meeting for elementary disasters and that soon the thematic session will be held, as you have already said between 3 Committee restaurants, the Ministry of Agriculture, environmental protection and transport protection, where we must surely get answers from individual ministries, but we will ask for people who can give answers, or ministers or state secretaries, precisely on the subject of the desertity of the river, not only in terms of what the river's crusts are being raised, but also that the rivers have grown by growth, so there are major elemental disasters, which then we all have consequences, and because of the petty interests of certain associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81364	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Križanić, yes, as chairman of the commission, you have led well and presented what is happening. I have made this clear today to the entire Croatian people, as well as to all those who manage and who should knowingly, professionally, manage the defence against floods, legal management of flood risks, as well as generally useful water needs. I can only say that the processes are very slow, that we don't care about the roots of our rivers to a sufficient extent. That the waterway agency doesn't do its job, like I said there, and that she hasn't earned any of her salary so far, with all her 40 employees. These are the things that we need to discuss and give clearly for the purpose, which is the agency and what its obligations are in terms of the flood risk management plan. Do they have any activities or do they not? Are they for it or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81366	Thank you. Let's move on with the debates, now it's time for you, dear colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81367	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear rapporteur, colleagues and colleagues. Today, before us this law, in the second reading, we see that this alignment with EU law went into two readings, in the debate, everyone had the right to participate so far, there was a debate with the interested public. We must conclude that Croatia is rich in water, water resources are 23,000 cubic metres per year per person. We are at the very top of Europe by drinking water. We have a long tradition of management and management of water resources over 140 years old. This law has implemented additional harmonisation with relevant EU directives, extending provisions on the validity of this law, so that this law applies to all water, surface, coastal, territorial, sea, mineral, geothermal and all water protection. The activity of public water supply and public disposal shall include the following activities, the capture of accumulation, storage, treatment and distribution of water, collection and treatment of waste water, which shall then be released into the water. This law enables the establishment of the right to build, or, the management of certain hydroenergy facilities built on public good. Provisions on previous assessments, flood risks, hazard maps and flood risk management plan have been added. In an appropriate way, the construction of new hydroenergy facilities has been arranged for the production of el. Energy. Water is managed according to the principle of a single system, which meets needs but does not endanger the rights of future generations. Every year because of a lack of drinking water, about 3 million children die, under the age of 5 in the world. We must therefore boast, and we must be happy that we have high quality and plenty of drinking water. But here I am, as a Brodjan, I have to look back at the incident that happened recently in the town of Slavonski Brod, because I can't help but mention it through this debate. However, the town of Slavonski Brod, every 10 years, encountered some sort of water incident, so it started in the early '90s. For years, increased amounts of iron and manganese have appeared in the water. It was established that the filter was fed up, hardened, and urgent regeneration was needed, water management then, with its decision to change the sand in the filters and only then did the problems arise. There is no longer an increase in iron and manganese concentrations, but nitrates appear. Then Croatian waters decide to make a new water factory worth over 100 million kuna. The culprit in this first case has never been prosecuted, no one has ever resigned for this incident. The second incident, once again caused by man, took place in 2008 when in the village of Slavonia 1 there was an intrusion of the mule from the plant heat into the drinking water, it lasted from September 21st to the beginning of November. The incident affected 260 apartments and one high school, no one responded or resigned that time. A third of the unsuspecting events occurred before Easter when our introductions, when large amounts of hydrocarbons were found in the water and of course, the first day they took samples, and the quantities were about 200 times greater than allowed, but the next day these hydrocarbons were gone, the water was correct for drinks, but it took all 10 days and here, the Brodians of course rightly dissatisfied, with the right not to believe the institutions of my interest that here I know that it was no longer in the management of your ministry, but however, the water lines were so that I was wondering whether this time someone would be responsible for these incidents that happened for this last one that happened in Slavonski Ship for Easter where my fellow citizens were left without drinking water for ten days? I sincerely hope it doesn't end up like the last two cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81368	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81369	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, the water pollution case that you were talking about, fellow Members of Maximchuk, we followed here for the fifteen days or the agony of all citizens of Slavonski Brod, and thank God it got rid of it, and the water is drinking. However, these last two days have come up with information that a certain toxic substance that comes from the Bosnia and Herzegovina River is good that there is also a colleague of the Secretary of State of Shiljeg, so it might be good to say something about it, that it will be coming very soon to Savo from Bosnia near Slavonski Šamac, which is about 30km from Slavonski Brod, so it would be good if you had some knowledge along with Croatian waters to see what is going on and could be prevented in view of this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81370	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81371	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Babić, I sincerely hope that the institutions of the competent resolution monitor this situation and this pollution coming from BiH. It could endanger the Sikirevets waterfield, we think that by Slavonski Brod no, I hope everyone is ready to remove this incident because I think there are a lot of incidents that are repeated every little bit to the Brodjans and citizens of the Brod-Posavina County, so here I think more information can be told by the Secretary of State who is certainly following this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81372	Second replica, dear colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81373	Thank you very much. My colleague Maksimčuk, you are a representative of the citizens here of Slavonski Brod in the Croatian Parliament and I must say that here we have been for two years already, the situation in Slavonski Brod as if there were all the ecological accidents and disasters settled on that city and that county, nonstop some problems, and we are not solving those basic things, and that is what the mayor said for ten years now is solving the problem of the Rafineria in the Bosnian Ship. And here I am calling you here because last year you did not support the proposal I made in the Croatian Parliament, which is to disable the supply of oil to the Bosnian Ship now I will refer this proposal again through the Transport and Oil Products Act, to support it and to make that not only party vote as it was the last time but to do something for the Brodjans, and to keep them from poisoning once and for a long time and we have to stop it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81374	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Maras. Yes, here's Slavonic Ship you've seen affect every little incident. Of course, here is the gasification of the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. The protocol is signed. We expect it to begin the work as soon as possible, that the refinery will be gassed. Of course, the oil flow is international contracts, we wouldn't want to go so rigorously, it would be the last measure citizens would want and of course I would personally like as a citizen of Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81376	Representative Miro Bulj reported for an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81377	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Secretary. And in real reading I said that the changes to the Water Act are HEP becoming the owner of water-based buildings, and communication channels will remain essentially owned by the state. Is this an attempt at privatization, i.e. What did Andrej Plenkovic announce on behalf of the government that by selling HEP, parts of the shares would go to the purchase of INA? Is this an HNS warrant that has already announced in the former governments the sale of HEP because this is how we give HEP great values, i.e. part of the state property that is in the state, of course the HEP is a state-owned company, but this is becoming much clearer on the market and is more ready for sale? When we talk about waters, the time to make a law to protect our waters is everything that's going on and the concession law was about water. We need to know that they are headed in Croatian governments, i.e. The sources of drinking water were brought to government meetings, and as the previous Government of Zoran Milanovica source Cetina was given in concession for 200 kuna a day, the debate lasted 37 seconds. So six thousand kuna is a monthly concession for the river Cetina spring. I think the water tribal would protect that the laws should be passed to protect Plitvice Lakes. See what is in Plitvice Lakes, the whole sewer system flows directly into Plitvice Lakes without any purifiers, physical, biological, or chemical. I would like to hear this from Mr. Šiljeg because if you are preparing HEP privatisation with this law if you are going to book valuable buildings, property on HEP if it's because of the sale of HEP, is it because of the announcement by Andrej Plenkovic that by selling the shares of HEP it will become a property to buy out INA and whether it's essentially that goal by this law because I don't see other interests in essence, but that this promise that HNS has been pushed for years, that it is here and done. As far as your ministry is concerned, it should be made public and clear whether this Act where the buildings become the property of HEP favours the sale of HEP, i.e. the intention to buy the shares of HEP as, on the shares of HEP by sale, the purchase of INA. Here, I would ask you to answer me now in your last, when you speak on behalf of the motionary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81378	Representative Gordan Maras has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81379	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, when we have this Law ahead of us, or change, it is impossible not to comment on certain things that have happened in connection with the problem of water pollution, before and floods, etc., but I think the key thing that happened in the past month and a few days in Slavonski Brod or Brod-Posavina County where a large amount of people have been exposed, I would say, is the inability to what is their basic right, which is to have quality and clean and water, i.e. to have available water for their daily life. And where exactly in Slavonski Brod, a city that has suffered the most ecological damages and damages in its territory for the past ten years, or its citizens who simply do not exercise the right to have quality life and to protect their health from the everyday pollution that is coming here, for example from the Bosnian Ship, and there, we must once again warn that no protocols or principle solutions that will solve the problem in the next 5, 6, 7 years will satisfy our fellow citizens until we make the pressure we must and can make, which is to pass a law that will make it impossible to supply oil to those plants that poison our fellow citizens. Is this about water, whether it's about a Bosnian ship or a refinery there, it doesn't matter. So we have to provide our fellow citizens with protection in a way that makes it impossible to obtain these raw materials that poison them every day. And on this side, I call once again on all MPs in the Croatian Parliament to support such an initiative and because they have not supported it so far because unfortunately, there are colleagues from Slavonski Brod from HDZ Mrs Maximčuk and Mr Cosic, they voted in the party path. They did not vote in a way to support such a law that I proposed last year, to disable these supplies of raw materials in the Bosnian Ship and thus our citizens in Slavonski Brod have the opportunity and the state of Croatia to put pressure on a Russian company that does not want to modernise the refinery in Brod for many years. But when it comes to Agrokor, there's no problem. Then the door opens and we see that the Russian companies will eventually become the owners of Agrokor. So, these things are solved in a way that corresponds to, for example, Russian partners and I wonder if it would be normal for the Croatian government to take advantage of its ability and put pressure on the Russian side to take over these companies that are now obviously taking over Agrokor affecting those who are in the Bosnian Ship to modernise the refinery to protect our citizens in Slavonski Brod. Why isn't that done? Why is it that things are allowed to go their own way and then as sugar, unfortunately, not sugar but bitter sugar at the end, an unpleasant surprise happens in the end where no one is satisfied with how it was done and where the serious environmental disaster that took place also deserves serious sanctions for those who are responsible, not only threats to criminal charges and criminal liability, but there is also political responsibility. So if the citizens of Slavonski Brod, if the mayor of Slavonski Brod is not satisfied with the answers he received from the state, then someone is not doing their job. Mr. Duspar did not take the HDZ on his teeth, so now they are harassed by the eyes of the situation, but the man is desperate for not being able to protect his fellow citizens from environmental disaster because he sees that the state is doing almost nothing and asking God how and why the water has been polluted there and which can still be potential risks to the water supply and water sources around Slavonski Brod or Slavonski Brod. So that's what I think, unfortunately, the state has failed to do here, and I think it would be fair at least to take part and political responsibility on itself as a government and say: yes, it could have been done more or we could have prevented certain things that we didn't prevent, and not that there would have ended up being divided by water and that here, as it had done everything that could have been done because everything had not been done and obviously not done everything because to do everything, then these incidents would not be in Slavonic Ship present. So, ten years there, our people have a problem. I'm not running away from the responsibility of any former government, but we can't do anything now in a way that we can transfer responsibility from one to another, do nothing for two years. We've been in this government for two years, two years. What happened? A protocol has been signed. Well, that's nothing. And on the other hand, when specifically proposed by the opposition by some law, then HDZ deputies do not vote in the interest of their fellow citizens, but rather vote as they have said from the resolution ministry, or from the government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to be denied by Mrs. Maksimchuk and Mr. Cosic, that the protocol alone is enough, that they are satisfied with the fact that only protocol has been made and that it will solve all the problems of our people who are there. And I say on the other side of the Russian company enters Croatia at a big door, I don't mind if someone does not realize that I am against the fact that foreign companies are entering Croatia, if this is the consequence of certain business processes or interests of Croatian companies, but I am against doing nothing when it can be done with the Russians in the Bosnian Ship except the protocol, and other than that Mrs. President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic has hit the foreign minister on the side of a joint in Germany, said here we will now settle this, the next day she called people in Slavonski Brod, one year again nothing. And what do our fellow citizens have out of it? So turn the pipe of JANAF for a month and you'll see how the logic of the people in the company at the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship will change. Do it. I have proposed such a solution, I have initiated this debate in the Parliament, no one by the ruling has supported it. Then the HNS was not yet ruling they supported then, we'll see if they support it now. He'll get a chance to vote again on the same law, so that's when it was okay, now we'll see if he'll be. So what I want to say when we talk about these laws, we need to make sure that we hide behind the adoption of the law the concrete interest of our citizens, the health of our citizens that with these laws we can improve and improve what the Croatian Government is doing now, and that it does almost nothing, do nothing, do nothing, solve problems and bring into despair an entire city, one county and a mayor who I support this way to continue fighting for his fellow citizens when there is no support from the rulings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81380	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81381	Thank you very much. Comrade Maras, HNS... was your coalition partner and they had an intention and Minister Vrdoljak then pushed the sale of HEP i.e. that the buildings become owned by the state to become owned by HEP to be sold more easily, of course, and that value... do you think this is the continuation of HNS policy by this law? And as far as Slavonski Brod is concerned, I agree that everyone has failed, so is Plitvice, so are you threatened, and all of Split also has these water problems. For what? Because it is suitable for harmful projects such as the TE Peru’s attempt to stop it on the river Cetina, as we see it now, we do not have water protection and even everything comes down to the concessions of these goods. And in Plitvice, we also have a problem with what a whole sewer system is going to Plitvice National Park. No one's doing anything, so if you can answer these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81382	Thank you very much. My friend Bulj, you've been right, unfortunately, but that's not true. I would rather be bothered if you told me that I was the worst minister in the history of the Croatian government than to mention that the CNS was with us in the coalition. So here's what you can do if you can take my little request in the future, you're telling me I'd rather be the worst minister than the CNS has been with us in the coalition because it's just now that the situation has developed, it's more disturbing than what you would say exactly. The second thing, as far as Split is concerned, so you're absolutely right, so it's amazing that we in Split have a water line that's been used for hundreds of years, if not hundreds of years, to invest that people tremble when it's going to be a little stronger rain to keep out of the water. It means that both in Split and Dubrovnik in a tourist country, and not because of tourists but because of our fellow citizens, we are not investing anything in water lines in Split and Dubrovnik, it is almost unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81383	Representative Pero Ćosic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81384	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Maras. Here are two, three times in your debate, you called your colleague Maximchuk and me as if we were not enough to protect the citizens of Slavonski Brod, and we are doing nothing to protect against air pollution from the Refinery in the Bosnian Ship. In fact, I agree with you that rigorous measures should certainly be closing the pipe to JANAF what you said, but you were in the government for four years the minister who, when she stopped working for seven years, had no such pollution done. Why didn't you propose that law on the distribution of hydrocarbons or crude oil to those plants that pollute the environment? So you had enough time for four years, seven years there was pollution in Slavonski Brod that government you were in didn't do anything about it. This government has signed the protocol and the work is done. All in others and all citizens of Slavonski Brod were in favour of bringing gas and it will probably be over this year, but here it will still work on air protection in Slavonski Brod.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81385	Thank you. Representative Gordan Maras responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81386	Thank you very much. Mr. Cosic, please give me some time for the microphone. Thank you very much, Mr. Cosic. They don't give a shit. Thank you very much, Mr. Cosic. I would ask you not to come back, what do the citizens of Slavonski Brod have now from this replica of yours? You were, we were, they were, and still pollution in action. So let us do something, and let go of what was. Now, you just said you agree with the law I proposed, you didn't vote for it. And you also said why didn't I propose that law before, so I suggested it a year ago, I'm going to suggest it again now, so please support it. Well, citizens don't have any of this shooting who's what when, how could. Well, they've made thousands of mistakes in the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s. It's our job to solve the problems that are happening now. That's why I'm calling you, let's make and solve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81387	For the final word on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Mario Shiljeg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliamentarians and MPs, first of all I would like to thank you all together for the constructive debate and the debate that has been held over this legal solution, shows which one was essentially our goal here. A colleague, Djakic, pointed out the great importance of extracting gravel and sand in favour of waterway insurance, and I would just say that it was this very law that wanted to liberalise and achieve exactly what representatives from the Varazdin County and counterpart Djakic stressed. Allow only because, in that sense to say three sentences about history, essentially concessions for the exploitation of gravel and sand in the Republic of Croatia from... beds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all know that she was quite liberalized by 2010 precisely in the sense that you, the distinguished representative Djakic spoke. However, in 2010 the association, I would say, the involvement of civil society associations has been banned from these openings of these concession solutions. In 2013, concession solutions were reintroduced, but with a strong, I would say, express and dare say, strict environmental protection measures, i.e. with the obligation to conduct environmental impact studies, environmental impact assessments and only to maintain water streams and waterways. And just as all MPs today pointed out in their debate, I would dare say that it is both the voice of the profession and the voice of the public and the voice of the Croatian economy that warns us of this situation and we wanted to make the most of these changes and additions to meet, so now they will be able to use themselves according to this legal solution, meaning, both gravel and sand, we will have exploitation and gravel and sand and for extraordinary measures to defend against floods. It's about these concessions for the exploitation of gravel and sand. Furthermore, I would also like to look back at the debate of the distinguished parliamentary representative Maksimchuk, where she also pointed out a certain chronology of the problem of maintaining water preparation devices in Slavonski Brod. The only thing I can say is that unfortunately today we have at our disposal, I would say, a very significant perhaps never greater amount of money that the EU co-finances water-communal facilities, but people often forget that building objects is just part of the job. Building an object is not even 40% compared to how much it should be invested in the facility during its maintenance. And that is why, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, i.e. the inspection service and our Water Economy and Protection Authority must go in terms of stronger coordinated inspection supervision of the work and maintenance of these facilities. As for the incident situation in the BIH and the extraordinary pollution of the River Precess, here is regrettable of course what happened, I can gladly inform, if you do not know, that yesterday has been interrupted, or the alarm has been completed. So, we need to take care that the distance between pollution, means Prevention to the Sava somewhere about 140 km, and we're sure there was no pollution of the Sava River, that the source of pollution means, in the BIH, it means priority works have been removed, so, the source of pollution and happiness in the accident is that there was no organic pollution, but above all, it means calcium hydroxides and calcium oxides that are inorganic, have a negative impact due to high pH values, but I'm saying, fortunately there was no organic pollution of these waters. A colleague, the esteemed representative Bulj once again suggested, means the problem of HEP, meaning the registration of ownership. I would say that the goal and what this legal solution brings is that for the first time we will have concrete information, essentially a concrete balance of ownership, including HEP. What is important is to point out, and a really big debate is being held in this sense, and this legal solution includes the state's attorney's office, so everyone is familiar with this solution. So, there was a very intense debate with all the interested parties. It's important to point out, what's in the public water well, so no one can have it. It is owned by the Republic of Croatia, given the right to build for 99 years, and these facilities, which are conditionally, of particular importance for the water regime, means, such as accumulation, inlet and drain can't even get the right to build, but the right to manage for 99 years. The ownership of HEP will also be of other hydro-energy facilities that will be built or companies that will build new hydro-energy facilities can only be recorded in those parts of the facility that are not within the public water supply. So what's not within the public water supply, here we can talk about the property of which the distinguished representative, with an excuse whether or not he spoke with concern, but here, I once again from this place as well as for the first time, I can assure you that it did not go in favor of the Hep, but it was purely due to and the fixing of their balance sheets, and that will be the last benefit that he will finally say in his balance books that is mine and I can dispose of it. So public water is good and public water-good facilities are absolutely protected. I would generally like to say once again, so that with these amendments and additions, we are finally in full compliance with the EU acquis. We have had concrete pilots with whom we have agreed on this occasion, with this legal solution and it is important to say that this legal solution goes in terms of greater water protection because it includes finally all water and land and coastal and ground and ground and geothermal, for the first time we have a legal solution aimed at protecting, and the use of water and legal regime water are still covered and are subject to other laws or other laws for which other resolutions remain in force. So here, above all, our goal was to protect the maximum water according to EU directives that increasingly direct water management in terms of water protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81389	Replica was reported by Representative Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81390	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary. Did this law tell you about the buildings that HEP will have in its balance sheets and be able to display them, whether this is the last condition to privatise HEP i.e. the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. What of the former governments your... partner Vrdoljak wants to privatize HEP, is this the last condition? And is it possible now that HEP when this is arranged for HEP to be privatized, you did not respond. As far as water conservation is concerned, I can list the dangers of the Adriatic Sea. You know what's wrong with Lečevica, the Dalmatian Zagora, we know what's wrong with Plitvice, look at Plitvice open sewerage. I would like the law to go in this direction, and we see that large cities are becoming harder and harder to have available drinking water large cities such as Split, which is our tourist pearl Dubrovnik, Slavonski Brod will not even speak, more and more cities due to water pollution and no control have no more drinking water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81391	Answer to the replica State Secretary Mario Shiljeg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81392	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian, Mr. Miro Bulj. Here is my answer, and on this additional question of yours, the following is that this text before you that we are adopting today is not a text on the privatisation of HEP, even moreover, which means equally prescribed by both HEP and future hydroenergy companies that will deal with production and energy, or their ownership rights. So it was not intended to make it easier or to authorise the privatisation of HEP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81393	This concludes the debate, it will be voted when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81394	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Water Act, second reading of P.Z.E. No. 242. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were filed by the HSS representative club. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the amendments submitted. With us is respected Ivo Miletic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Dear Secretary of State, Amendment number one, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81395	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected MPs and respected MPs, no argument is accepted. Water well-being including its decorated and unsettled... the area shall serve the purposes of the Article. Nine. The law also includes the construction and maintenance of regulatory and protective water structures and buildings for the basic melioration disposal, for the maintenance of the watercourses and waterways, as well as the maintenance and management of the induction area and the implementation of the flood defence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These purposes explicitly exclude the practice of agricultural production in water good and the clear political commitment of this Act is based on the rules of the hydrotechnical profession that agricultural production is banned in the aquatic good. Therefore, the Law expressly prohibits the land from plowing in an orderly inundation area, planting and cutting trees and shrubs. Thus, the Law explicitly prohibits wartime production in public water good. In practice, it avoids the authorisation of pastures of larger cattle, cattle and others due to possible disturbances to the stability of the embankment, and, somewhere, it is extremely acceptable to skin and pasture as a rule of sheep and goats, which maintains public aquatic well-being. In particular, the amendment's proposal indicates the untapped agricultural potential of pasture... in the municipality of Oprisavci, Brod-Posavia County, which is water-good and not public water-good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a land particle between the Sava River and the Sava River of 2 million, 802 thousand square meters, so it is an orderly inundation area owned by the Republic of Croatia, which, by force of the law, is a public water well. That particle is currently serving as... Thank you. [[You can't hear it.]] [[The President's incursion: eventually with time.]] Of course, it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81396	Okay. The obvious, dear colleague Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81397	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, we are not satisfied with the argument that this proposed amendment leaves us with the possibility in the Law that the unit of local self-government shall make a request to the competent ministry and Croatian waters to determine whether some particles are public water good, water good, whether they are in a function of defence against the harmful activities of water or not, and that, on the basis of such an expert analysis, the part that is not in the function of protecting against the harmful activities of water is allowed to be extracted from the public water goods and to give units of local self-government to install in the programmes available to state agricultural land and to be used by agricultural producers. You have a situation on the ground that some inductions and miles away from the banks of the Sava River, Drava and that as such could serve agricultural production. In this way, the refusal of this amendment leaves the Q status, we have one legal uncertainty because you have now set an example of Gaine in the Municipality of Oprisaci, which is given to the use of the established defence community where it is done. According to this model, other pastures that are well - used in public water can also be used. So, you killed yourself and I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81398	Then let's vote on an amendment that the government does not accept. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now let's go to Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81399	It's unacceptable. Explanation. The exercise of the right to lease construction rights under Article 16 of the Law is an exception, not a rule of public water supply, only when that right does not affect the purposes of Article 9 of the Law. As the general definition of the law is that the public good is owned by the Republic of Croatia, that Croatian waters manage public water goods on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, that Croatian waters decide in the first degree on the rights of hire of services and rights of construction, that the public is granted for hire for the purpose of agricultural activity in exceptional cases, the baskets and the pastures in order to maintain the public water supply do not see any organisational or other reason for this public authority to be divided from the level of the central government between Croatian waters and local self-government units. This would not speed up decision-making, and Croatian waters would needlessly expose the arguments and counterarguments of local preferences and priorities that are not in any way related to water management.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81400	Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81401	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, we do not accept your explanation. Knowing that you will not accept the first amendment, we have proposed this second precisely to bring the management of public water goods closer and included in the ability of local self-government units to participate in the process, that the only member of the commission in the tendering for the lease of these public water goods, which in practice appears to be a representative of the units of local self-government because you currently have practice on the ground to rent Croatian water for some particles, and for some particles provide units of local self-government with confirmation of peaceful possession. This has now been established through the development of the programme through the availability of state agricultural land, so you have legal uncertainty. By including this amendment into the law, the units of local self-government would allow them to participate in the process, to allow the local population to benefit from some of that land for the pasture and other purposes of livestock farming, and in this way you are suffocating agricultural production, you have legal uncertainty. And I am surprised that as a longtime member of the HSS and you reject this proposal, I know that together with me you have advocated that these areas are available to local self-government units to strengthen the fiscal capacities of local self-government units and we propose this amendment and the distribution of that income to 50% Croatian waters, 50% of local self-government units would thus strengthen the units of local self-government that now have the cost of developing a programme of state-owned agricultural land, huge costs of that, and they will collect the fruit of Croatian water. I am glad that Croatian waters are investing in the field, and you as a member of the HSS that you refuse to believe this is how you approach it because you will not allow the local self-government unit to participate in the process at all, and you have a situation on the ground that legal uncertainty is because in one case they give Croatian water certificates, and in other case local self-government units. Why is that? Because it's a messy system we're proposing to edit it with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81402	Thank you. Let's vote on an amendment the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. So now we move to a vote on the final draft of the law on amendments and additions to the Water Act. Please, let's vote. I find that the law received 76 votes, so we unanimously passed a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81403	The following point is: - Final draft law on the termination of the Law on the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, second reading, P.Z. number 214. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate of Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr Ivo Milatić State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The final draft of the law in the second reading proposes to suspend the validity of the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, the termination of the work of the Centre and the establishment of legal effects relating to the taking over of the tasks of the Centre by the Ministry of Energy Affairs, the acquisition of equipment for labour, rights and obligations of the Centre, the completion of the procedures under way and the takeover of workers. The Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre was founded on the basis of an identical law that regulated the monitoring of the energy sector's business and investment. The Centre was founded primarily as a legal person with public authority to provide professional support and participate in the development of a proposal for a strategy and investment programme and to participate in public private partnership projects, but also to act independently on the energy market. The reform of the Centre's investment projects and public private partnership management has become part of the competence of other legal entities, so the centre's removal has been imposed as one of the reform measures included in the National Reform Programme. The centre also failed to achieve the sustainability of its activities through independently launched investment projects or through cooperation projects with the local community where it took place as a consultant. It is important to mention from the centre's operations that it has been appointed to the national co-ordination body for energy efficiency and the establishment of infrastructure for alternative fuels. It should therefore be pointed out in particular that this ministry assumes the responsibility of the centre as the national coordination body for alternative transport fuel policy on top of the task of the national energy efficiency coordination body which has already carried out what has been clarified in relation to the first reading of the proposal for this law in Article 3(1), subparagraphs 3 and 8, and all in accordance with the comments made by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. The national co-ordination body will be an independent organisational unit within the resolution ministry, which is not unusual in small-market countries such as the Republic of Croatia. The activities in question are carried out by the Ministry of Energy, while in our case, given the size of the Croatian market itself, there is no need to set up new specialised agencies from the domain of energy efficiency when considering the volume of jobs and the number of employees involved in these activities. It is also common that the tasks in question are in part of the work of the Ministry of Energy within the Ministry itself or within agencies under the Ministry of Resolution and such practice is also in other EU Member States. In relation to first reading, the amended Article 7 in a way that the Minister of Environment and Energy submits a proposal to the competent court to delete the centre from the court register within eight days of the date of entry into force of this law and to speed up all processes related to the acquisition of the centre by the ministry. At this point, the centre has nine employees with an indefinite working contract, the management centre is managed by the chairman of the Management Board from the point of view of reducing the management staff for one management employee for 2018 and 2019, which is expected to be a savings amount of 166,000 150 kuna per year. The closure of the lease of a business space reduces the material costs for 2018 and 2019, which is why savings of 702,000 kuna per year are expected. Finally, this final draft of the law proposes to put off the Law on the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre for Investments and, as a consequence, to stop the work of the Centre in order to achieve a rationalisation of business, optimisation of the process and organisational structure. Thank you for your attention, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81405	Representative Vlaovic has come forward for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81406	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. We welcome the cost reduction and abolition of the centre, however, the key question is why the centre was founded. He should have initiated the development of the energy sector and the creation of projects together with Croatia's economy if it is possible that, if the information is correct, no project was designed to remove the centre, or if there is any project in preparation that the ministry will continue to run, can we expect any development projects that will benefit our economy and new jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81407	Replication response, Secretary of State Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative, it is true that the centre has not met the expectations expected from it, it is not only the opinion of this government, it is the opinion of several previous governments, so that all those jobs that are under way and will be usable and they will be able to be realised, clearly this ministry will continue, and the fact is that energy projects are in principle being developed through our energy public enterprises such as HEP, Plinacro, Janaf and others, and clearly when it comes to private initiatives, means that in this case, the employees of the centre will join the energy administration where they have a lot of work other than these jobs as a national coordinating body, which is monitoring of energy efficiency and monitoring of alternative fuels. It is clear that these other jobs will be involved, and since we are being followed by the 2020 presidency, it means strengthening the people we will get from the centre will certainly be of use to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81409	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81410	Well, here's what my colleague asked before me in essence, we had an Energy Investment Sector Monitoring Centre, the only thing we had in Croatia about energy, means harmful investments that got through even renewable energy sources like wind parks that have bigger damage to the Republic of Croatia because we pay more expensive electricity for billions and a half of kuna a year, we subsidize who knows who and who knows why and until the solarists could not get into their houses. So those projects that have been built, someone has to answer, it's not enough to say we're shutting down, who's for all the damage that's been done, I don't know if that's the area of maybe drilling the Adriatic and all the others that belong to this center, who's going to be responsible for this. It's not enough to say we're shutting down. Who is responsible for this mess and for the expensive electricity that citizens pay every month, a billion kuna per year only for wind parks we subsidize to foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81411	Replica reply State Secretary Ivo Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81412	Dear MP Bulj, as far as harmful business is concerned, I would not call it such a name, these are the jobs that have been concluded in accordance with the legal arrangements, in accordance with the decisions, in accordance with all the legal procedures implemented. There, the work took place as prescribed by the law and will soon come into this esteemed house of amendments and addition of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources on the basis of which we will be able to discuss on this subject, as regards the affairs that CEI has seen, CEI was founded later than these projects and started, a large part of the projects that you are talking about before CEI was established. It is clear that in his business, if he had had contact with it, he gave his opinion, they certainly do not pay citizens more expensive electricity and do not pay citizens electricity anywhere, but citizens pay compensation for renewable energy sources in accordance with the Law on Renewable Energy Sources on the basis of which all this is financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81413	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The HDZ representative's club has applied for participation in the debate, a representative of Darko Horvat will speak on their behalf. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Representative Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The promoter injured the Rules of Procedure from 234 to 236, because he told the truth that citizens do not pay for expensive electricity, but they pay dearly for billions of kunas a year while boycotting solar plants where citizens would be independent. For that money that we're paying for the subsidized wind parks, which is why today we'd have all the houses in the Republic of Croatia, we could build mukts for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81415	Representative Miro Bulj, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. You listed article 234 to 236, if it's going to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it's 238, so I would only ask you to quote a specific, precise Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Intruder Bull: I accept.]] Representative Darko Horvat on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81416	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected state secretary with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So here, after nearly 3.4 months, there is a second reading of the bill in which I, too, welcome the intensities at all, do not create or create a new gap in the resolution and exit of the necessary acts, in order to make certain investments, in energy and also in the other sector in the Republic of Croatia, but to remove one institution, which really, not at the moment when it is established, and in particular today does not make any sense. So, in 2012, when some of the staff had no idea where, or where, a new institution was formed, in which these personnel were taken care of after 2012, we are aware that in these past 6 years, the institution, which was then called the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, had not made a single investment at all, and since there was no investment, had nothing to follow. So, what was the purpose of the adoption of the law in 2012? The financial efficiency and transparency of the business of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, has failed. The process of decision-making in companies, in the energy sector, was to be accelerated. Unfortunately, neither these companies, whether in state or largely state-owned, have carried out any key national investment since 2012. A proper and targeted focus was on financial resources, in a way that ensures the largest and long-term economic return, stable growth and centralised and systematic monitoring of investments in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to stop there for a minute, and I'm going to go quote those sentences, which were drawn up as an explanation in the preparation of this bill. Therefore, the desire was to target financial resources, in a way that ensures, the largest and long-term economic growth. So, I'm just going to move away from the fact that this center was meant to unite and support the functioning of the model public private partnership. The same model, which has long since been abandoned by the Western European countries, because the public private partnership and projects of the public private partnership, which cannot finance themselves, were at the very beginning and before the treaty itself, ready, respectively, to fail. And then there was one hope. What was that hope contained? That a slightly different methodology, the application of a public private partnership, finally, through the synergy of public and private money, will be able to produce, investments of national interest, primarily in the energy sector, because it was energy that, by building these projects, produced the product that the market sought, regardless of the price and the ability to invest, was publicly private and returned. However, this was not the case. And investment in the energy sector, it just wasn't today, when we discuss and discuss the creation of a new energy strategy, we don't have the potential for new projects. If we start from Dubrovnik and end up in Osijek, we will again see the same localities, which are in spatial plans, the same character of investments, we will want them or in a certain way, we will not want them, but new projects, in the new energy strategy, simply will not be. We'll only be able to do new philosophy, access the construction of renewable sources, but respected colleagues, no more premium systems. The state is no longer in favour of a premium in the system of renewable sources, there is no money, and there is no need to invest them, because today we are no longer in the phase of project development, some divalyperic, new... We are already in the process of building commercial projects, which must also be built at commercial prices and that price of average production, which today Croatia is willing to pay, for the purchase of electricity, which is lacking in Croatia, must be financed through the premium system, every new facility in the segment of renewable sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, that same... in all that it is not, it was intended to provide professional support and to participate in the development of a proposal for investment strategies and programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, in a way from this pay phone, I will mention one strange fact, the Republic of Croatia, in this same House of Commons, unanimously adopted the energy strategy in 2009 but until today, by 2018, no implementation programme has been made, these projects covered by the energy strategy are not included, neither in the time frame nor in the financial framework, nor in the duties of the Parliament, i.e., the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which of the public or private players on this market should be built or invested in which project. For that reason, we have the fact that we have. What is today's reality? And with the existence of an energy strategy, with the existence of a legislative framework, let us not fool the public with the fact that Croatia has no laws. Croatia also has a strategy, an energy strategy, in line with the spatial development strategy, Croatia also has the Law on Renewable Sources, Croatia also has the Act on the market for electricity, the natural gas market, the Republic of Croatia has a legislative framework, which today, by its legal diction, has transitional and final provisions and these laws are not out of function. Waiting for a new document a year or two is a waste of time. Waiting for a new philosophy rather than respecting or building those projects that have been agreed by Croatian energy market regulators have been verified and their tariff has been manipulated. Today, the Croatian market is too rich for selling projects, having all the necessary permits and not being built. These were speculators entering the market for renewable sources and the full impact was to open the market for renewables only and only to private capital and to empower state, public enterprises and to task them to create conditions for accessing such projects to the network. However, in the past 6 or 7 years in the Republic of Croatia, instead of narrowing down the number of consent and the necessary permits to build projects, such strange mechanisms have been created which have been simply a stumbling block and have not contributed either to flexibility, nor to the efficiency of investments, particularly in the energy sector. The reconstruction of the Zakučac hydropower plant was agreed, i.e. HEP agreed in 2008 and 2009 respectively. HE Zakučac reconstructed with a new turbine and generator system with an increase in power was launched only last year. So energy projects are difficult projects, especially difficult projects in terms of project preparation, but the moment we take advantage of all existing sites, only then can we think about new projects, new points in spatial plans where energy investments can develop. But again, I will mention the key word, primarily and the first basic energy production. Renewable sources or so-called Alternative elections, or alternatives cannot be the cornerstone of industrial development. Not in that segment as the project, the introduction of renewable sources was designed at the very beginning in the Republic of Croatia. So renewable sources and projects built in Croatia do not have their own accompanying industry. And they traps the production of photovoltaic modules, wind turbines and other components necessary for the development of renewable sources, which should include new employment, development of new technologies, introduction... in the Republic of Croatia and the development of industrial production have simply disappeared. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the Republic of Croatia, renewable sources only happened because of electricity production and could contribute and develop projects at the very beginning when technology was expensive, when technology was new. Today the technology of renewable sources has about 3x priced down and talk about so-called. ... the tariffs of the same amount as in 2007, '08. Or '09. The year is completely non-commercial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's the one thing that's kind of sticking it in our eyes here in the Republic of Croatia. So all those companies, whether they were state or private players on the energy market, run their own policies. Today HEP, JANAF, Plinacro, INA and other companies operating in the Republic of Croatia do not have a common interest policy. Not primarily in that regulated area where infrastructure must be built. With us, some of the projects, and even in the private sector, take place in a place where energy is not available. So the connection of such a facility to the transport system, whether in gas or in the electricity segment, requires a percentage of the investment that exceeds 30% of the existing these general conditions and in the segment of the construction of the gas network and in the segment of the construction of the power grid, the cost of the connection is transferred to the manufacturer. Thus, the investment is multiplicitically accumulated and the question is how many such investments ultimately have their own feasibility or are already, at the very beginning, the same kind of investment condemned to failure. And what I will end of course with the support of this law, in the past month or two we have had several interesting discussions in the Croatian public. We've chosen a new state's attorney. And by looking at that discussion, you know who discussed the name and the work of the proposed man? First of all, the attorneys. So after that, we had some controversy about whether or not dr. The Paladin should or should not be extended to Rebr. You know who discussed this topic? Doctors. And then I look at and follow an independent energy analyst who is a formal education, God and ask what, who knows all about energy, stockbrokers who today are the target and ingenuity and the priority issue to which the Croatian transport system will join both in the gas segment and in the electricity market segment. Well, ladies and gentlemen, you only go to the stock market for two reasons when you need something or when you're offering something. Since we almost have nothing to offer, it's important for us to get into which stock market to buy on that stock market. And for this reason, in the last 30 years, basic energy production has been forgotten in the Republic of Croatia. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if the Republic of Croatia had been following the 2009 Energy Development Strategy to build all those projects and facilities of basic energy production, we wouldn't have been so expensive renewable sources, we wouldn't have imported so much, and if such projects had happened, we wouldn't be worried today about what would happen with Croatian energy in the next 10 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81417	Thank you. Before we continue, we have students from the Ban Josip Jelačić secondary school gallery from Zapresic. Please welcome them with a round of applause. Give it up! The next Club of Representatives to report for participation in the debate is the Club of Representatives of the Most. In their name will be the representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81418	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, here we see that not too many MPs have reported for this debate, and I think most of them will support this proposal when the vote comes. What I would like to stress here is that the mandate of MOST at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, energy not only marked big announcements like that on Christmas Day 2016. Andrej Plenkovic on the return of INA to the Republic of Croatia. He then made an announcement, and we suggested a model of how to do it. However, the model obviously did not match those who want to sell HEP, and this is an alternative proposed by the NHS and HDZ, meaning that a part of HEP is sold to restore INA. Also, the price of electricity to citizens and the price of gas were a wise fight in the end to avoid the acquisition, and as far as the Agency is concerned, I could say a lot there. Moreover, we left the final law at the Ministry of Administration, while the Government again announces only in April 2019 to provide legislation that will rationalise the system of legal persons with public powers. What's the fact that this process that we're completing here today is the proposal for this law, that we're still starting at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Energy. So, the irrevocable process of shutting down this agency. What should be pointed out here, what the media said, is that there are 56 agencies in the Republic of Croatia that serve 9,000 jobs and salaries. As I pointed out, we launched in the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the energy process of joining 4 agencies into one and parallel with the abolition of this centre for monitoring the business of the energy sector investment. The agency, according to our proposal, is now abolishing itself, but I am asking who will be responsible for 50 million kuna dropped in 5 years from 2013 to 2017 and the indirect cost much more. So, we started this process, and here, a year after the MOST exit from the government, we had a proposal that this agency was just being abolished. Question what's been waiting for us so far? And here I have several interviews where State Secretary Chikotic announced that it is going in that direction and here, just a year, we're coming to that, but as I said, of course we'll support it. The public sector and agencies in the Republic of Croatia are occupied by clientelism and political staffing. So it is necessary to reduce the state apparatus that does not provide quality service to citizens and entrepreneurs, as we have seen in many cases. And what should be said here from this place that such management is without responsibility and political staffing, I think the time is over and that we should all push in this direction here in the Croatian Parliament. We heard announcements yesterday about the increase in the minimum wage, coming across a variety of proposals, but while we have this kind of, this large state apparatus that is inefficient, which burdens our entrepreneurs with various gifts, which by tax, which, by non-tax, by parafiscal means, we can't even expect that the situation for our workers will be better, that new jobs will be opened, which will ultimately lead to better conditions for our workers on the market. But here, we're still going very slowly in that rationalization of that state-owned apparatus, the abolition of agencies like this. Here, there's an article from, I think is Free Dalmatia, an amazing state agency where there are 13 bosses on 10 employees. This is a story of a paradise for overpaid arrests and a state that throws millions into the wind. We know who this situation suits. It corresponds to HDZ, responding to the SDP when it is in power to arrest its personnel, for those who have done very well for these parties' elections, which local, regional, which state and of course the political will to abolish such agencies, to reduce the state apparatus, to reduce and red tape in these parties. But here, we see and it shows public opinion research that these political dinosaurs, I would call them so, are about to die out. New political species have emerged on the Croatian political scene, and I am convinced that time and that citizens will increasingly open their eyes and that new political options will take over the primate on the political scene, which here in the assembly, as in the Croatian government, and that these things that I was talking about here today will begin to be resolved. What is interesting is that this political will and the pressure that exists in the public by the media, by the citizens, the political parties do not want to implement in any way, do not want to go that way. This is one small step, but as I said, after almost a year of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, energy went that way. We're going to support this, but this is not ambitious enough, it's not going enough to reduce the number of agencies, it's not going enough to reduce the state's apparatus, which is not serving anything, except for entrenched political similar personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81419	For individual participation in the debate, MP Branko Bačić reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, 6 years after the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre is set up by law, these days we will be voting on its abolition, practically finishing a story, which may even have had a good intention at its beginning, which is that at the level of Croatia, an institution, which would monitor the business of the most important energy companies in Croatia and thus require the infrastructure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, it helps invest in the energy sector in Croatia, both when it comes to public investment and when it comes to private investment. I have here before me what I was then as an opposition representative and on behalf of the club and individually spoke about setting up a centre, to monitor the business of the energy sector. And everything I said then, and that's written down, so, February 23, 2012 and 2017 and 10. In 2012, I'd like to sign today. And that's when I said that Croatia, this institution doesn't need it. In addition to the fact that there is an energy administration in the Ministry of Economy, besides the fact that there is an investment and competitiveness agency, besides the fact that the most important energy companies in Croatia have respectable experts in terms of HEP and PLINACRO, and in terms of JANAF. And that in addition to these experts and institutions, a center like this has no excuse for its existence. And I say, here's six years have passed since then. This law says that I was right at the time, when I was not in favour of its establishment, and besides, then I cited several other illogicalities, when it came to the establishment and the centre. But this does not mean that Croatia should not worry about on the one hand, the business of these most important companies, although they have, as I said earlier, respectable experts in their composition. That Croatia should not encourage investment in energy. I said, if the first 10 years of this century had been a priority, large capital investments in the transport sector, in the transport system, in the first row of the road system, and I would say not so much less, nor in the system of building seaports from Rijeka to Dubrovnik, where over a billion euros have been invested, where investments of over a billion euros are being developed. And which investments in this public, road transport sector were largely invested by public funds, so either borrowing on the international financial market, either through fuel charges, or from toll, that these other 10 years, Croatia would have to be abolished by investing in the energy sector. So, now, in Croatia, investments are needed, which according to the strategy and energy development, which is nice, previously spoken by counterpart Horvat, will have to be, will have priority in investments in the Republic of Croatia. In this sense, an existing legislative framework, which speaks about the strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, the energy framework, which speaks about the strategy, the spatial, the legislative, the framework, which speaks about the spatial order strategy. The Law on Mining, the Law on Hydrocarbons, therefore, all these laws provide sufficient grounds and all these strategic documents provide sufficient grounds for the rest of the ministry, together with other bodies, which, in their area, follow the business of the energy sector, to be sufficient administrative infrastructure, so that in Croatia, there can be a new step in the realisation of energy sector projects. I therefore welcome the adoption of this law, which will practically be missed by these bodies, to decide on investing in energy in the Republic of Croatia, on the one hand, and on the other hand to monitor business, very important, for the Croatian economy, energy companies, companies such as HEP, JANAF and PLINACRO. So, before that, we seem to be discussing a month or two here in the Parliament in our first reading, the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, in this context, and in accordance with that law, when it was adopted 5 years ago, we established a special agency for the exploration and expansion of hydrocarbons, which now, together with HAND, continues action and which practically takes over that part of the energy sector, when it comes to exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. When I talk about the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, I will point out, in particular, that on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ in 2014, I wrote an interpretation, in which I claimed then, that the process of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons is illegal, non-transparent and thus, as it is described as harmful to the Republic of Croatia. On this trail, I also gave the proposal of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons in the first reading of several observations, several suggestions that the Ministry would ask for in particular so that we would not come into the situation of re-exploiting the hydrocarbon research and exploitation of hydrocarbons into certain tests and studies primarily of hydrocarbons in the Adriatic, which is not in line with other spatial-planned documents in the Republic of Croatia. According to the current strategy of the spatial arrangement of the Republic of Croatia, it is not possible to explore and then clearly exploit hydrocarbons in the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia and we know that the territorial sea is 12 miles from the external islands or from the starting lines and according to the competition that was launched 4 years ago, it was possible to explore and determine the possibility of using and extracting hydrocarbons both oil and gas from the Adriatic. So when there is a second reading here in the Parliament, I use this opportunity, I say the presence of the Ministry's representatives, that we are very much taking care of all those elements that define the conduct of the Adriatic survey when we talk about possible exploitation, I would say gas and not oil from the Adriatic, so that we do not have to repeat the situation we had 4 years ago when in Croatia the Croatian public was very concerned by this procedure which was also in the end non-transparent and which was not in my opinion in accordance with the law. So to conclude, I welcome the adoption of this law, I believe that we didn't need this centre, that it was spent on certain funds, that the centre was carrying out certain activities, that it followed the business of this energy sector, that it was engaged in monitoring investments on the energy sector, but in addition to existing bodies in the Republic of Croatia, besides the existing energy administration, next to the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, I would say next to the Energy Institute of Hrvoje Požar, I believe we don't need to establish another body, another institution, another centre that would only lead to overlapping in competences when it comes to investing in Croatia, and I repeat, it is also said on behalf of the club of fellow Horvat, that the legislative framework that speaks on one side of the strategic documents on the other hand about implementing documents and that there is indeed a very good position for me to exist, but it is necessary to make faster and stronger investment in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81421	Thank you. Representative Bulj has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81422	Here's my colleague Bačić, you said that six years of the center that is here now we'll probably all support being shut down because it was ineffective, because it was harmful to the Republic of Croatia, it was purpose to itself, it was essentially the fabric of the ear. I ask you only one question, when we go back, who was the minister in charge of energy when a decision was made on the establishment of this agency, i.e. On 24 February 2012, the Parliament voted on the proposal which the minister, I must remember, I think you were, you can confirm or deny, Minister Vrdoljak, who is your now and coalition partner, so if you can confirm, I would be pleased. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81423	Replica response, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Bulj, first of all, I'll tell you if we're shutting down something today, if it wasn't necessary to establish it doesn't mean it's caused any damage, we can agree on it or not. As for the minister who proposed, I have the same approach for you for every law, and that is that for the law and the adoption of the law, the most responsible Croatian Parliament, and so do we parliamentary representatives. The government is proposing a law. If you're going to have a very specific name, not a colleague of Vrdoljak, then the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy was Mr. Ratko Cacic, who I suppose had the best intention of, at that time when the Government of Zoran Milanovic was hinting at investment tsunamis in energy, so that he needed a special body, this center was obviously not well planned, and this is today proof that we're giving up, that this centre really wasn't necessary, that I was talking about in an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81425	Thank you. Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81426	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I support this removal of the centre and the reduction of the tax burden on our citizens, in this way will be saved because we are asked by craftsmen and the economy, to reduce this state apparatus and to reduce the burden on the economy and entrepreneurs, so my question to you is that there are about 200 different agencies, centres and similar institutions, which you still believe have not justified their existence and that you are planning to reduce the number of agencies that are safe to contribute to further redistribution of the economy and we see how it has coordinated this energy sector centre, that there are problems in the INA, that the fate of the plant in Sisak is unknown, that they are questionable jobs in Sisak, and the new administration, a new member of the Hungarian administration, doing some creative work without the question of co-owners, so do you give up the question of whether INA is a Croatian company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81427	Reply to the replica, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81428	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Kola Vlaović, there was a time when we joined the EU by adopting a number of directives, Croatia was prone to agree with you, the establishment of a number of independent regulatory bodies that we have established and, perhaps, now, by shutting down even though this centre did not occur as a number of other agencies that should have been independent bodies, it was not necessary and I would agree with you that the significant number of institutions in the Republic of Croatia that we established under the European Directives, and later it proved that they were not necessary. On that trail... There are already 15 different institutions, but they are attached to other institutions because we have found that there really is no need for so many agencies, institutions, centres, institutions in the Republic of Croatia, which then, in a certain way, significantly burden the state budget and therefore... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me, Mr. Petrov, Mr. Vice President. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81429	Thank you. Representative Miro Bulj has applied for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81430	Thank you very much. Here, to be some individual debate about, what is it now? 12 and 15 because the new rules allowed the executive authority, i.e. the proponents of the executive authority dominate here and impose the topics and, of course, that the laws and legislative changes, regardless of what we have announced that we will accept it, but the fact that these Rules of Procedure have been proven that the Parliament has lost and all MPs who should be MPs, the possibility of replicating, that we should wait for individual debates, we do not have debate clubs and that a good goal has been met by HDZ and most of them to stop talking, ie. that the topics are not being opened in this Parliament which should be opened because they are simply less and I hope you will soon see that, and the people are already seeing that you must not only favor the executive authority, but that you must look into the interests of the parliamentary representatives, because the silence of the parliamentary representatives and the abolition of the right of the speech of the parliamentary representatives reached will not contribute much to the democratisation of the Republic of Croatia, but a Pharaohic system is being created which obviously, here I see that my colleague Bačić will also be replicating, I look forward to that replica. But I would turn to this subject we're talking about. So we had one agency of hundreds, thousands of offices, administrations, agencies. We had one Center that had here, as my colleague Grumoja said, on the 10 employees of 13 bosses. Of course, I apologize, at the time he was not Minister Vrdoljak, but his then party colleague Radomir Cacic, who is and now his party has supported you in most of the way, so I would like that when you give your colleague Bačić a replica to say whether the purpose of this agency was to develop Croatian energy, to invest in energy or to have projects essentially be harmful to the Republic of Croatia. I'll just list the river Cetina where TE Perucha is planned, excuse me, river Cetina. On the river Cetina, from spring to mouth in Omis, we have five hydropower plants. The construction of the Peruca hydropower plant, the largest water in the area, which is the largest and cleanest water in this area, has changed the flow and flow and this one, the Cetina River, so that the floody Sinjsko polje, that people have only damage. So, in the area where the most energy was in the Republic of Croatia, you mentioned a colleague I respect and it's a shame you're not a minister because you shouldn't defend your grandfather from the minister of the present. It's a shame you didn't take over that resort, colleague Horvat, because the fact is on the Peru River, on Lake Peru, on the river Cetina. Because the fact is that the Zakučac hydropower plant, that the investments we have in it and the production of power of Peruce, Orlovac, the ecological problems we have with this problem, that this people in these parts have nothing. They don't have entrepreneurs. And they still wanted to impose on us the Peruch thermal power plant. Was that the part... Monitoring Centre for the business of the energy sector of innovation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Could it have been a role to protect such projects? Was it a role to protect projects to subsidize wind parks, i.e. Renewable energy sources, and wind parks built to subsidize them with a billion kuna, while we have more sun than there are in Austria, Finland, which have much more salt than we do in the Republic of Croatia, a higher ratio in energy production. Why didn't you go to the tanning rooms? Which is why for this one billion and a half kuna a year, and in three years, that's five billion, something less. Every house in the Republic of Croatia, every facility, every facility, house, private, more buildings, could have been built in solar panels, solar panels. And we wouldn't be a monopoly, we wouldn't need thermal power plants, we wouldn't need lobbying foreign ministers for her husband's project, we shouldn't. We shouldn't waste our energy for that, but we should fight to get an exclusive economic belt, to get independent energy, that each of us, that we don't have a monopoly. Because every household would produce less poverty. If you could make every house free of charge for this subsidized part of it, they would fill the quota because they would have solars, and they wouldn't give a billion and a half kuna to foreigners. And the projects that were done and which were built and wind park projects, the research hep was doing, of course. And then the former HEP directors open through their relatives or they open themselves, of course, project bureaus based on research that HEP was doing. And everyone knows that. Everyone knows that alive, and everyone is silent, and I think that you were really a respected minister, Mr. Horvat, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the biggest party, now you're single. Tell me, is that true or isn't it? Who did it happen to? Let's go. Here's the Blue Example. The man made a big hall where he planned to have a vegetable-buy cooler, to be preserved in the Cetina region, and he planted 30 kilowatts of panels. There's no way to get into the quota. A volunteer of the Homeland War, an entire war in the war, 100% disabled. However, the fact is HRVI, a Croatian war warlord, he cannot get a quota, of course when they got windparks for renewable sources. And here would be something that's missing from the Chetino end would be a ransom to make it worth it. Buying vegetables and fruit produced in the area. So these centers, these centers, are their own purpose, these centers are their own purpose. They did only great damage to the amount of the calculation, he told his colleagues, it will be 50 million kuna, but it is the least damage when we add up the damage, from, as far as energy is concerned, from the white nights, started by SDP, Slavko Linić, to the INA MOL cases of Ivo Sanader and the bag of numerous who were worn, and they didn't even know they were money in bags. So we have, we're moving on, so I think there's so much crime in the energy sector, that it's amazing, that in my Chetina area, from Cetina source to Omis, where we have the fastest, we have lakes, the most naturally they've done damage, destruction, that the entrepreneur has no advantage, at least that it has cheaper electricity. That local self-government, like Sinj City, has no convenience or relief because of it. Nothing, absolutely nothing. But when it comes to the husband of Minister Buric, foreign affairs, then they need lobbying, that her project, her husband, which is a private project, should be isolated, that he be in the area. It's a thermal power plant. For what? Is that the people's interest? What are people moving us for? Why are people poor, why do people get electrocuted? Which is why in those areas are still... Like in Western movies? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I once wrote, so that I wouldn't accidentally take them off, as long as I was, down the chairman of the local board, councilman, and so, not to take them off, because that's who in the Western movies, those pillars over there, ratted them out by birds, disaster. So you don't invest in neighborhoods, where you draw that energy and those areas, are Mr. Horvat, just, you say you should give it to the private sector. What a private sector. Is this how it's been so far? Is that how you give energy? Let's get a HEP target. Who? To what have wind power plants to gain? I don't know how you think that, that we give it. How did HEP work? Well inside HEP he owned the VisViva project, a member of the family. So one of the co-owners. We're talking about the project, so the thermal power plant. And while we have slightly lower troughs, a project that also develops HEP slightly lower on the stone, which would regulate floods in the area of the Sinj field, than the Cetina River, that goes into the drawer. Is for what? And what the state, the county co-financed, where the mayor last year, before the election, Mayor Ževrna, until you replaced him by holding press conferences, that would build this... It's a corset of hydrocentres. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But she's gone. Once again, I will support, of course, shutting down this agency, but this is just a drop in the sea. Let the people hear, the agency, which did not have any project, proposed by the HNS, this Parliament now accepted in 2012 the HDZ coalition partner, then the HNS coalition partner, the SDP, who had 13 bosses 30 employees, can you believe, here's just some people, he knows, and Mr. Bacic, can you believe it? [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81431	Mr. Grmoy's representative, reporting for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81432	Comrade Bulj, I've been here right now in front of the assembly and I'm asked by the press, is it a shame, that it's such an empty assembly. I say, my colleagues are here, as many as we are, 8, there are more of us than our HDZ colleagues. But HDZ is responsible for this empty assembly. And even their MPs, here, we see, a colleague from the SDP has two colleagues from the Living Wall, no one. Why aren't they here? Because it can't be replicated at all. We should wait for individual debates at the clubs, we can sit here and wait for an individual debate. This is an important topic. The agency is being abolished, proposed by counterpart Cikotic, while at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Protection. And you said yourself, how much did that agency have for their bosses, how much money they spent? At the time Bacic attacked it, while the HNS was in the coalition with the SDP, now his HNSs are good, then he said a lot about Radimir Cacic and Vrdoljak, and now we see what's going on But it's good that what we're proposing is now being realized. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81433	Mr. Bolt's representative, time. Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81434	This policy that the government is implementing, it looks like it's a wolf in a cabbage. Except that he does not receive the beating of him who rules, and that which enters the cabbages all the time, and that which does harm as a vo, but gets the people beat, the people get the beating. Because the fact that at that time, you noticed well, colleague Bacic, was against this one, and then he didn't support it. Now it's staged, when he's replacing an agency from the HNS, which is a drop in the sea. We're up for it, because this is a drop in the sea. We're up for it, but this is a drop in the sea, out of hundreds of thousands of agencies, that's first. Secondly, you said very important, the right to speak. I went early this morning, I had to go because the HDZ government declared Drnish a developed end. Drnis lost, a colleague, a colleague of Grmoya 6%, to get from the Krk National Park, because they declared him developed, because I don't have time to say it here. I have no time to say, because you have offended this House,... You're insinuating, to ask yourself, is Drnish really developed? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] There are no cats or mice left. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81435	Thank you. Representative Bačić, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Bulj, formerly or in the morning’s soft debate, as you have indicated is not the result of a change in the Rules of Procedure. That's the best thing it's ever said is that if I'm not mistaken, you've already had 10, 12, 13 calls this morning. You, personally, two individual, plus replicas, so as well as you as a representative, this amended Rules of Procedure do not prevent you from reporting, you are taking part in the debate. You say there are no topics opening, here is my colleague, Škibola, who pointed out the problem of the homeless in Croatia this morning, so nothing important changed this Rules of Procedure that we as MPs can't talk about both this topic and any other topic, so it doesn't stand. As for the investments you mentioned, be careful I am for a sustainable environment, colleague Bulj, but if we look at every project as you look at it, then we will usually move to where investments are carried out and where it takes care of both the environment and the jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81437	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81438	My colleague, if the Rules of Procedure weren't good here, you saw, you exceeded 20 seconds, you didn't say anything. It was a slow thought. I was in Drnish this morning because of your law that you passed, you declared regional development by law, indexation, Drnish a developed city. And Drnis lost 6%, a war-deposited city, never less people, and you introduced it because of the employment rate, of course there's no unemployment in Drnis when all the people went away, you put one of the criteria there. So, I was in Drnis this morning, and by your standards I call a break, in your default norms, but you won't, you won't, you could have been there to Sanader, Plenkovic, Kosorica, Karamark that you tell me when I'm going to have a break, by your terms, you won't Bačić, you won't, tell the Government not to act like an ox in a cabbage because they don't get the beatings but the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81439	A representative, Darko Horvat, has signed up for individual participation in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81440	Thank you, Vice President. It is a shame that some of the actors of this dramaturgy in the Croatian Parliament are not here today because I would dare call them too, but before I dare call anyone who sits here today, I'll just have a few short sentences to relate to the exposure that I had on behalf of the club. So, in the wake of the desire to narrow down administrative procedures and the number of necessary what administrative acts are necessary to make any investment happen afterwards, I am sure that by abolishing CEI we are not and will not stop. I agree with a few comments that have made it clear today from the club of parliamentary representatives that we still have institutions that are multiplying the need for the necessary documentation or in issuing the necessary consent or negotiating the accession of other things that are important in the energy sector, and I think that even before the adoption of the new Energy Development Strategy, we will put and analyse the role of Croatian operators in the energy market. Today when we're through... and the third energy package, and there is already a winter fourth energy package, able to form transmission operators and distribution system operators with the existence of today's other agencies and regulators in the energy sector, which is currently connected to the same institution in Brussels with the existence of the electricity stock exchange, the question is what are the policies today and what is HROTE doing today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It does not obtain energy, does not balance the system, issues acts or contracts in the segment of renewable sources, does not do so for the past 2 years because the new contracts are not being concluded and at one point I am sure that the philosophy of the Western world, the energy sector will be united by one single operational body, which we will call an energy agency, which will be extended by the Energy Administration, or perhaps one day by the Ministry of Energy, and those strategic definitions that the ministry will design, precisely that agency will implement in the work. There's one more thing that fascinates me here today, I'm kind of thinking about whether to silence her or not, but fellow Bull, I need to look back at a bunch of inaccuracies that you've brought out today and in replicas and in any report on the topic of energy. So, not to be fascinated by your ignorance but to be fascinated by the fact that there is no desire to understand and learn how an energy project is created, whether it was a public investment or a private investment, how long it takes in this development and what is most important, in order to one day be part of a Western civilized world, every investment will have to be put into effect in Croatia under the same conditions and laws, under the same physicality at the moment it is approved, and released into operation. And the fact that investors are changing the laws three or five times in the course of project development, so people who invest whether own capital from their own accumulation or credit funds, the project ends under completely different conditions than those under which they started, is not the fault of investors and for this reason there is no investor real in Croatia. But there's one good thing about that whole story. You and I live in a similar but very different neighborhood. So your river Cetina is energy and it's a rich energy source. And the municipalities and cities, the catastrian municipalities that are all these hydropower plants that you mention today and have per kilowatts of electricity produced receive compensation from HEP. The same municipalities in your Cetina region as the municipalities in Varazdinska and Međimurje County. And it doesn't fascinate me that you don't know, it fascinates me that you don't want to accept the facts. And if you are interested in facts then it is not for the teaching of the Croatian Parliament but as well as colleagues of Pernar told by people who work and live in the HAZU awake nights that some of us have awakened and some of you are not. And it's normal that you've done some work in your working life and you know that job very well. And I wouldn't dare talk to you today about what you've been doing and what you've been doing for 25 years. But where did you get the courage to discuss things you don't know about, you never heard them in that original true sense, and you showed no will to teach them, I really admire you. And with that, I'm going to do my own individual exposure and end it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81441	The question is MP Horvat how much you can appreciate what someone did. So I'm not giving yet another warning not to raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Bulj has requested a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81442	As one of the better ministers, and I'm sorry that you don't run the ministry, I was a 17-year-old Croatian soldier, an officer of the Croatian Army, but I got into politics precisely because of these situations that you support but you've denied me in nothing, because of the politics of those who, political elites, intellectual elites who brought the state here where they are. And it's not true that my son gets and swears for HE Peruch or anything else. Check it out, so you're lying, you're cheating on the public, and you're winding it up. You're used to it in the case of INA MOL, you're used to it, white nights. How did the white nights go? Am I lying that they didn't go white nights? What about INA, how you explain to the people, you're a know-it-all, say here, you're supposed to be a minister, you're much better for energy than many others, you've shown yourself and proven yourself. So I ask you to answer what for example. Son doesn't, when you know you have... there is no compensation of what there is, which is the highest electricity produced down there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81443	The answer to the replica, MP Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81444	Thank you, Vice President. Well, fellow Bulj, I hope that the footage exists, I hope that after a few days we establish, and here are the relevant people who can also confirm or deny it, every kilowatt produced electricity in the hydropower plant's production plants will be subject to fees and HEP pays them neatly. So to claim that these are false, or to claim that it is said in a context that I do not know, because exactly what I am saying to you, one simple ignorance and I do not blame you for that because in your life with these things you have never dealt with and honor and respect for you as a Croatian defender and officer of the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81445	Representative Shuker, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Horvath, I have come to you with a replica to comment on independent regulators. I think these independent regulators often serve this High House for political bickering. Independent regulators should be extended the hand of this High House for two reasons. It is one thing that we appoint and report to us and independent regulators are the ones who control whether the rules of the game that we in this House of the High are passed when we pass laws apply in all parts of certain processes. And that's the point of the whole story. And I am glad that you mentioned that in this country you need an energy agency and also the Ministry of Energy because I think Croatia has this great potential but not for political bickering but for the benefit of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81447	Thank you. The answer to the replica, MP Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81448	Thank you. Dear fellow Shuker, therefore, what some institutions should be and what they are about to do today, we could spend a lot of time on it. And believe me or not, I'll agree with one of my colleagues, Maras, today in a sentence, let's leave our past alone and try to see how we can build and build a system in our near future. And that in the energy market, and primarily in the resolution of market and regulated business and what needs to be invested in the system through the maintenance of investment in the construction of the network, we must have a far better and stronger regulator and not a politically-oriented but truly professionally teamed and strong one, and I don't think there is a single parliamentary representative in this House who doesn't share your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81449	On behalf of the Representatives' Club, Miro Bulj reported on behalf of the MOST Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81450	Here, on behalf of the club, I'd just like to say for a little while that a good fact is what the MPs always do. My colleagues, in this case from HDZ, are disdaining every word of the parliamentary representative so soon before and I will, of course, repeat once again, my colleague Horvat, that the Croatian state has been brought into this situation mainly 2/3 of Croatia because governments behave as I said, as oxen in the cabbage. But they don't get beat up, they get beaten up by the people. You know, when the ox enters the cabbage, when he gets beaten, he won't. But this is where the people get, not you and the policies you've implemented. I've really praised you a few times. But the fact is all I said was true. Well, you remember the INA case. You were then in the government, then you were defending that there was no conflict of interest, that INA-mol, that it worked well, and it fell to me. How after 25 years of that, I liked myself, the man from Sinj from the Suvac village, just to talk about these problems. You know why? Because I live in a place where people go, because I live in a place where there's some infrastructure low voltage, high voltage, by the time you get down, you see that there's no Western movies, and I'm going to confirm that one more time. The son doesn't get the money because he's been going through Cethine, he used to win. However, this does not mean anything that the Sinj field floods us, nor do we have any compensation, and that is true to you. You're welcome to check if that's true. Check and see. And to belittle a parliamentary representative, which is why he's talking about, because I've been in local politics for 10 years now, I've been working here, from the local board and beyond. I wasn't named by Karamarko or Kosorica or Sanader or anyone. Nor did I... And by gold, I didn't pursue the state's interests, from the drilling of the Adriatic to the INA-mol, you can explain all this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Explain now in this. I'm going to say one more time, the agencies we have meant, 56, 9,000 workers, management, offices, so that's hundreds of thousands of employees that are meant for themselves. Well, it's been proven here that this agency since 2012 has been its purpose. That no investment, except for the harmful ones that have arisen. I don't know how a colleague... He talked about it, as fellow Horvat will, I see that he immediately signed up on behalf of the club, and I see that there's been a little bit of an issue, so as an expert, I can provoke him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How do you interpret the wind power plants of this renewable energy subsidy, that we give a billion and a half kuna a year to foreigners, and that our people can't even get on the solar house, they can't just break into the quota, because in the last second, you know, and you know by what key. You push your pocket and that's how it worked. So all the incentives in agriculture, energy, that's how it worked and that's how it works. And you're saying I'm not telling the truth? Well, if the people trust you, Mr. Horvath, let them continue to support you. I'm just saying in plain language the truth and the fact that for this money on every house we give subsidize wind power plants, these renewable wind power plants, that energy to strangers, that we could put solar panels on every house, on every free state, and that we could have independent energy. Renewable sources, and we have the sun, you can't say we don't have any more Finland than we do, Austria and other countries. So that's a matter of logic. I know you're an expert, that it may humiliate you if I tell these facts that are public and available, which you can see. It's just like that. The model for the Perun thermal power plant was 500 megawatts. With 100,000 panels of 5 kilowatts we could have meant the same renewable energy sources, for example. And the subsidies we gave for wind power plants and other or gas is the same renewable source. In these conditions when used for heating and you know it. And that money goes into somebody's pockets, and it's not going to protect a man. Therefore, all subsidies, incentives. There's something else, mates, in the end. We'll back this up. We'll back it up. But the money, the bonds that Agrokor used, 10 billion kuna, the bonds without cover. You know who filed a criminal report? Yeah. And it's proven true. That's what the governor of the CNB admitted. Ten billion kunas. How did I like that? How come Mr. Horvat didn't like you as an expert? So, either you'd... either the ones who were educated, and they knew who were in those places. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, so answer who should be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81451	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On two occasions, my colleague Bulj injured Article 238. The Rules of Procedure, making a lie. Namely, my colleague Bulj, the Perun hydropower plant, which I have worked on for four years, pays compensation, as my colleague Horvat told you, to the units of local self-government that he is on. Yeah, how is it not? ... [[Intruder Petrov: Representative Bačić, I would have to interrupt you. You did not quote the article correctly. 238.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81453	Mr. Bacic, you've been changing the Rules of Procedure and I won't argue with you at all. I warn you to stop because you're not a member. 238, no false quotes, and your President of the Parliament has personally warned me that there is no such thing in the article. 238. I would therefore ask esteemed MPs to correctly quote the Rules of Procedure which have voted. Representative Bulj reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81454	In 238, he injured by speaking to his untrue colleague Bacic, because I said that the city of Sinj, where the river Cetina flows, has no compensation at all, [[Employer Petrov: Representative Bulj, I am just... Representative Bulj,...]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81455	Representative Bulj, thank you. The final word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will be spoken by MP Darko Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81456	Thank you, Vice President. Once again, I welcome all together and at the very beginning of these five minutes, my colleague Bulj, I have not demeaned in a single word what you used to do or what you're doing right now. I'm aware of the fact that there's a lot of things that I don't know either, ready to accept the fact that I don't know some things because I'm never going to answer in this House and discuss social life, health care and such topics, I'm always using the opportunity to go out for this pay phone and talk about what I've been doing for the last 25 years. I will apologize to you from this pay phone for this word, but I repeat again, I appreciate you both as a man and as a Croatian defender, and I have not disrespected you. And I'm going to rely on where I left off. We come from similar and different parts. You know what we're similar to? And I have the Drava River and I have when I get back to that Dravorad 11 hydropower plant on that Drava. My Donja Dubrava does not have any other fees other than the charge for producing electricity from the Dubrovnik Hydroelectric Power Plant, and there are 11 of them upstream. And you know what's devastating in that whole fact? That they were all created and built before '91. A year. And one more thing is very interesting, you claim there's an exodus of the population from your neighborhood. Yes, aware of the fact that conditions and jobs have not been opened for them because priority protection of the environment, nature protection and only in the Republic of Croatia in the countries of our environment Environmental Impact Studies can stop the project, only in Croatia. In all other countries where projects and facilities are built, the Environmental Impact Study says that they will be built and with what minimum environmental impact. Only in Croatia can an environmental impact study be said the object will not be built and there is a catch and there is a mistake. When you allow every investor five or seven years to invest, invest, promise him hills and valleys, and after seven years and spent several million kunas, the same study tells him that the project can't develop further, then we all ask ourselves why this investment environment in Croatia is different from the Western world. And what is the fact, colleague Bulj, is that in Međimurje County and my Donjo Dubrava, days ago, thirty years ago, we began to engage in attracting investors, to create jobs, and to build and build infrastructure through these investments and by paying income into the budget of local self-government units. Now we've got structural funds, we've learned in the last three years and that money builds infrastructure. So what is the desire of us who have been in local self-government in the municipal councils and other institutions in the last 15 years, dynamically how the process develops and the novelties that are being adapted to them, and we accept them. And with us in Međimurje County, the fact is a priority, perhaps not a sufficient condition for the infrastructure not to build the money of our taxpayers, but through structural funds and state investments. One fine day when in that Cetin region yours that I've gone along and across, which I appreciate and love, and I'm always happy to return to it, when investors start coming and when economic activity starts to develop in the Cetin region, then people will stay and live there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81457	Representative Bulj reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81458	The 238th article, a colleague in his debate said inaccuracy again. Don't get... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81459	Representative Bulj, I have warned the same way as the representative of BAčić, since I warned him that Article 238 does not state falseness, Article 238 cannot be used to give replicas. I warned Mr. Bacic about that. You cannot use it as a replication option.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81460	He told a lie... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81461	Thank you. State Secretary Ivo Milatić reported on the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81462	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Appreciable MPs and esteemed MPs. I would thank the Ministry for the debate and, in fact, thank you for supporting this law, as far as I understand it from all those who spoke support that this law be adopted as it has been adopted. What I would possibly just add, I would agree with Mr. Bačić's conclusion that something that was founded now we can't call in our nature harmful because the fact is that by the circumstances I was the assistant minister of the economy when this centre was founded. In fact, in his beginnings, he had one stopper and was established a register and all other activities that were later taken over by certain other agencies, and now it is inevitable that this centre should be abolished as we suggested, because we in the ministry decided to take over the jobs he was doing. As for this fee for the occupation in space there is definitely a finding that it is 10 kuna per MWh and that, in accordance with the scope of the government's decision, it is determined. Unfortunately, Mr. Bulj Sinj is obviously not in the HE Peru area regardless of what Cetina is going through and that's it. All in all, thank you and the Ministry of Environmental Protection will continue to do everything the CEI has done so far, which is primarily as a national coordination body for energy efficiency and biofuels.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81463	Thank you. This concludes the debate, we'll vote You've already had three replicas. [[Intruder Bull: Replication, replica.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81464	Here's a colleague from HDZ, look at what this means, again... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81465	Representative Bulj, please don't violate the Rules of Procedure, thank you. This concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81466	Final draft law on the termination of the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, second reading, P.Z. No. 214, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law on the termination of the Law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously with 76 votes, the Law on the termination of the Law on the Centre for the Monitoring of the Business of the Energy Sector and Investment has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81467	The next item is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog and the Therapy Dog, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 221 The applicant shall be the SDP Representatives Club, on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. and Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed by an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Representative Sinisha Varga, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81468	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the proposal for a law on the use of an assistant dog and a therapeutic dog, with the final proposal of the law P.Z. 221, which the SDP Club proposed in the parliamentary procedure, in more debates and committees, we repeatedly stressed why this law should be passed, so I will sublime here once again. Thus far, the legal solution, i.e. this proposal for a law, has better regulated the scope of the helper dog and the therapeutic dogs, which is now governed by the Law on the movement of blind persons with the help of the 1998 guide dog. The Law provides for the right of blind persons with a dog and a guide to use means of transport and free access in public places, but not its right of detention, i.e. staying in the aforementioned places. Which, in law enforcement, leads to considerable problems. The proposed legislative proposal would better define, extend the range of users of services, prescribe who can still carry out the activity, as well as the conditions for the activities of the breeding of socialization and training of dogs assistants and therapeutic dogs, which so far could be the only Croatian Association for the Education of Guides and Mobility Dogs. By adapting the law, it would also define the types of dogs used to help users. People who... participates in training, education and the use of assistant dogs, and their position, rights and obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, you have a short bill of 26 articles. Very well and fully explain both the problem and the way in which this area is arranged and I suggest that all MPs and MPs accept this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81469	Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Ines Strenja Linic, chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81470	Mr. Vice President, the honorable representatives of the ministry and this little representative you're here today. I would like to say that on February 28th, the Committee on Health and Social Policy discussed the proposal of the Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog and the Therapy Dog, which was delivered to the Assembly by the SDP Representatives' Club. Therefore, the Committee discussed this law as a parent working body and an introductory explanation of how the bill would better regulate the scope of the assistant dog and the therapeutic dogs, which is now governed by the Law on the Movement of the Blind Person, with the help of the '98 guide dog. Mr. So for many years, we haven't had any improvement in this area, and that's why this law is actually proposed. That law regulates the right of a blind person with a dog, a guide, to use means of transport and free access to public places, but not its right of detention, i.e. staying in those places, which in law enforcement, leads to significant problems. In the proposed legislative proposal, the same would be better defined, a range of users of services would be expanded, who could still carry out the activity, as well as the conditions for carrying out the activities of breeding, socialisation and training of dogs assistants and therapeutic dogs, which so far was the only Croatian Association for the Education of guide dogs and morbidities. The bill would also define the types of dogs used to help users, persons who remained, in other ways, involved in the education, education and use of assistant dogs, and their position, rights and obligations. The Minister for Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy explained the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is proposed to the Croatian Parliament, not to accept the proposed draft laws, given that the draft bill is currently under way. The legal proposal submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club is, in fact, a copy of the draft proposal, whose expert holder of the amendment, with minor amendments to the resolution ministry. After agreeing, given the scope and content of the objections received, the ministry will repeat the public consultation process, the minister said. Therefore, the members of the committee in the debate asked a question, agreeing with the bill's proposals in relation to the applicants, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the SDP's Representatives' Club, agreeing with the need to regulate the area as soon as possible, in an appropriate manner. After the debate was held, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, most of the votes, meant 2 abstentions and 5 against, did not support the adoption of laws, on the use of assistant dogs and a therapeutic dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81471	Whether the Government's representative wishes to further explain his opinion. Maria Pleikosa, State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81472	Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. The Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy as the expert holder of the draft Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog has already drawn up a draft of this law at the moment the SDP Representatives Club gave its proposal to the Croatian Assembly. To date, most of the procedure for the adoption of the said law has been implemented in accordance with the law on the assessment of the effects of the rules and all the opinions of the competent authorities have been collected in October 2017. In view of the scope and content of the observations received, the text of the draft draft law has been completed following compliance with them. A working agreement is currently under way to bring the new text of the draft legislation with the Office for Law, Ministry of Finance, MVEP and the Ministry of Agriculture into line. The draft law will once again be published on the e-consultation to inform the public and collect observations and proposals. We would like to point out that the proposed Act on the Use of the Assistant Dog and the Therapy Dog with the final proposal for a law proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club in the Croatian Parliament is almost identical to the draft of the Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog, whose professional holder is this Ministry. Following all of this, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not support the adoption of a proposal for the Law on the Use of the Assistant Dog and the Therapy Dog with the final proposal for a law proposed in the Croatian Parliament by the Club of Representatives of the SDP by the fact that the above content is already in the process of production and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81473	At the presentation of the government's representatives, there remains a replica of the representative, Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81474	Dear Vice President, thank you. Dear Secretary of State. Here I'm just going to replicate what you said about the adoption procedure. I read briefly, I understand that you do not support the law of the SDP, but the reasons themselves are not acceptable to me, that something in the procedure is already in that you already have me getting into the eye that the opinion you gave, here you have since 1 December it seems to me, where it tells me that all the jobs will be done during 2017 and that in early February 2018 will already enter the regular procedure. Now we may be, now you're already telling each other a story, so somehow it seems to me that it's taking a long time, and somehow here it is, under a large questionnaire, are you going to even go out with this very, very, very important law and you don't support ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81475	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81476	Dear MPs, it is true that this has been said, however, that there have been a large number of objections to the previous text of the law, while all is agreed and adopted, it simply takes a certain time for this text to be adapted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81477	I'm opening a debate. The club of representatives of the Independent Lists reported for participation in the debate, the representative of Ines Strenja-Linić will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, MOST of Independent Lists will support this law, which has been waiting for 20 years to see the light of day, and I really don't care if the bill was written by the SDP and its ministry in about 2015, whether counseling was done then, whether all these remarks were answered by the end of 2017, whether those who need these dogs or all those children are interested. We're here and we need to do it. That's why this bill that's good we'll support and I'll just do a few more things again. Therefore, the legal regulation of this activity and the creation of a basis for the dissemination of the number of service providers in the Republic of Croatia will contribute to reducing the waiting list for the assessment and allocation of dogs of assistants and different user groups, starting with persons with disabilities, children with developmental difficulties and persons with chronic diseases whose intensity is determined by specific regulations and facilitating their inclusion in everyday life situations. At this point, only blind persons who need to use the helper dog to meet the basic needs of life have the right to use the helper dog in means of public transport and the right to access uninterrupted and stay with the dog assistant in public places, places of their city, education and the like not provided to other user groups. This law even allows those who train those dogs, so that they can also pass public transport and these dogs actually learn to be assigned to the user afterwards. The proposed law would ensure that institutions, associations and other legal persons carry out this activity and ensure that all users have the right to use public transport funds and to have unlimited access and stay in public places, as well as other places to meet their needs together with the assistance dog. So it is only this law that makes it possible for a weak-sighted child to have a dog with him and in a preschool institution, during schooling, to have this dog and at their workplace, so this law is a comprehensive solution to this problem. This would prevent discrimination between users of the same needs and which so far could not achieve this right. And I'd just like to say a few words about those dogs. So, the helper dog or the world-class assisting dog is a broad term where we most know the guide dog. However, there are also dogs who help rehabilitate children, hearing impaired persons, people in a wheelchair, helpers in patients with chronic diseases such as diabetes and epilepsy. They're all dogs. They're all helpers. So the guide dog has a long tradition in Croatia and we can say that everyone knows about it today. The Law of Movement with the help of a guide dog has existed since '98. And although still in some places, in some places where the dog needs to get into, we know which and what kind of dog it is, there are still problems. So the helper dog is a new concept and we just have to get used to it. So besides the guide dog, there are also dogs assistants for people with hearing impairment, then there are rehabilitation dogs that people are less aware of and less interested in and they are in the world called dog service fordisabled. It's a dog that helps people in wheelchairs with specific tasks. Then there are dogs that help people who have diabetes, they can tell by smell if this person has fallen into a diabetic coma. Then epilepsy, so dogs who will, they're called... I mean... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dog, that means they'll react to a person who's had an epileptic attack, then an assisted dog for children, or dogs, just for children with disabilities called therapeutic dogs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course there are those dogs, so do I at home that help in the therapeutic process itself and are actually called therapeutic dog support. It's the least you can do. What exactly does a member of the assistant do? He's a member of the family, not just a member of the assistant. We have a case of a therapeutic dog for a child who has cerebral paralysis and tetraparesis, which means it's completely dependent on someone else's help, it's in a wheelchair and it's hard to communicate and it has a lot of strong spam. The dog helps him, at a time when he's having a stomach so he licks his finger at the finger until the muscle relaxes. So every day that dog takes his socks and hats off, pulls new socks out of his drawer, recognizes objects like cream, diapers and wipes. He knows what to bring when to bring. When he sees it's getting dark and it's time for a bath, he knows what to do. He knows the routine and all the procedures and he doesn't have to be told anything. It also helps communicate. So, schooling a rehabilitation dog takes 5-6 months and starts actually over a certain period of time that this dog has to spend in socialization in the family, training is based on training by service which enables the user to communicate well with the dog. The basis of the program represents... means raising and bringing the item into your hand, then helping to transfer the person from bed to wheelchair, opening and closing the door, pulling wheelchairs onto the sidewalk, and the possibility that the dog will turn on, turn off the light, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After a successful test with the instructor, the transfer of the rehabilitation dog to the previously selected user shall be made available. The choice of users is based on an analysis of his health, everyday life needs, and on the other hand the characteristics of that rehabilitation dog. World experience shows that rehabilitation dogs are used in people with very different diagnosis and damage from paraplegia, muscle dystrophy, multiple sclerosis and epilepsy. So because of this, we have dogs therapists who have improved on the physical and mental plan are seen in particular with Alzheimer's disease regardless of their children but also especially those persons, acting very favourablely and even statistically significantly improves in fact their depressed condition, which has been identified in several papers that have been published on the subject so far, just for people with Alzheimer's. It is then that dogs are guides of people with impaired vision, they are experienced trained dogs who once followed people with impaired vision are forced to beg, to survive, to change us times, those persons are working, and people can ski, and people can finish their regular schooling, and these dogs are specially adapted to them. Then we have dogs for people with disabilities, especially dogs for hearing impaired people who not only serve their masters instead of ears but also provide them with considerable psychological help and their constant presence and kindness, develop loneliness for hearing impaired people, reduce anxiety, avoid depression, etc., etc. These dogs are of real value, our society has to recognize it in its width of the use of these dogs. And that's why I don't care who wrote the law first, who finished it, who didn't finish it, agree, adopt a law like this so that the dogs' helpers can finally come and get them at their own service and this law will help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81479	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, MP Ljubica Lukačić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honoring State Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. I remember well back in 1998 when the first law was passed that made it easier for blind people and people in a wheelchair to move. Just before the law was passed, we disabled persons who were active in the movement of people with disabilities, in every way possible we helped the Guide Dog Association, to guide dogs and mobility, to sensitize the public, to sensitize politicians to realize that the helper dog is extremely necessary to the person who has any kind of disability, who demands the need for a dog. It's been a long time, a lot hasn't changed, but unfortunately we can find out that even today many people haven't, I won't say sensitized, I won't say they don't want to act in accordance with international documents. As you all know, in 2007, among the first countries, Croatia signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and instead of acting in accordance with it, instead of acting in our laws, unfortunately today you still have a situation where health institutions do not allow dogs to be assistants, for example. blind people's eyes to stay with them in a health care facility. It is necessary to pass such a law as soon as possible, not this law, but a similar law. Why am I saying that? This law prepared this text, I'm talking about this text now, prepared the ministry there somewhere in 2014, if I remember correctly, and I think that when the ministry was headed by Ms. Milanka Opacic. Why has he not been adopted by the end of the SDP mandate, I find it really hard to say now. However, it has been a long time, for people with disabilities who need helpers or treatment dogs today have a lot of objections to such a bill. And that's one of the reasons why this law is going to say in a re-proceeding procedure from the beginning. And that's why I have to say here in a way amazing way to my colleague STRENJA-Linić, who is the chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy, because when we discussed this bill on board, I also said that people with disabilities, persons from the Association of Dogs Guides and Mobility, "Silver Centre" have new proposals. They don't fully agree with what it says here. Is it hard to wait a little longer now, but should we listen to those who are most invited to say what should be written in this law? About a month ago, a large gathering was held in the Republic of Croatia, organised by the Association for Dogs Guides and Mobility on this topic. They insisted and prayed that such a law be passed as soon as possible, but they also prayed that they be heard, had new suggestions. And when they held a joint meeting as a task force in the ministry on 11 months, they said they would submit new proposals, there are others that this law would indeed be what counterpart Stranja-Linić was talking about in order to make a longer-term solution for those whom he really is, whose dog assistant or dog rehabilitator would really need it. I'm at this rally, and I've been invited to see people with disabilities who are blind, weak-sighted, who have severe cerebral damage as they cooperate with their dog friends. First of all, I was able to tell some of the first time I heard what they were up against when they went blind or what they met when they went into life as people with cerebral damage and how much help that dog had given them. And then I realized, even though I knew it, I realized that we really shouldn't ever force some things, but we should, but we always always listen to people with disabilities say what they want. This law is necessary, this law is necessary, we need to pass it as soon as possible, and I am asking the Secretary of State to make any proposals that will be very likely to arrive at the ministry these days, all of what we are telling you please consider carefully. You will receive a series of suggestions both on my part and on the part of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, and from the users themselves who are already using these dogs. And how never, but it would never happen again if someone didn't allow a dog assistant used by a blind person or a person with severe cerebral impairment to enter a medical facility where a person with disabilities was rehabilitated. It's not the answer to say leave your dog outside and when you ask people like that, ma'am, and what would it be to tell you to leave your eyes outside then people with disabilities turn out to be the problem. With this I ask the State Secretary once again, that together with your associates, but really take a good look at all the suggestions that will arrive at you and that as soon as possible, on these benches, we see a new, whole, quality example of the bill that will be the way for people with disabilities to a new life. Following all of this, the HDZ Club will not support the proposal of this law, because, as I have explained, it is simply not possible, given all the new proposals that have come and that will come up in the coming time, all the time, until the law is sent to the public debate, and I am sure that there will also be proposals in the public debate, which the ministry will have to further consider and then refer the law, here I hope that, as soon as possible, we can discuss it and bring it forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81481	What if he has a final opinion? No, I don't. Then this concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. According to the schedule of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, which was given by Parliament President Gordan Jandroković, all points have been completed today, so it continues tomorrow at 9.30, with the point of the proposal for the Cyber Security Act of the operator of key services and providers of digital services, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 320. Session adjourned at 13.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-02-0.u81482	Final proposal of the Law on the Use of the Assistant and Therapy Dog, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. The number 221 is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Use of the Assistant and Therapy Dog, which is not accepted by the Government or by the Parliamentary Labour Authorities. Please, let's vote. I find that the bill has not been passed because it has not received the required number of votes. 43 was for and 72 was against it.
