ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83859	Will someone say something informal, anything that comes to mind, as long as we wait? I was kidding, I was joking. Mr. Skibola, you asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83860	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I demand a free speech Thank you, thank you. [[I beg your pardon, Mr. Schibola, I give you my word.]] Dear Vice President of the Parliament, I demand a free speech on the subject of lex LNG. [[Intruder Radin: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83861	One o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83862	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83863	The first day of the session, it can be requested in the morning, later at 13. Okay, we can go. Come on, we're two and a half minutes late. - Final proposal of the Terminal Act for Intended Natural Gas, emergency procedure, first and second reading, bill number 333 Hello to everyone, I forgot that. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this law and the proposal be discussed, as I said earlier, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, emergency procedure unites, as you know, first and second reading. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Mr Ivo Milatić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83864	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you is a draft final proposal of the Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas which, as a lex specialis, regulates and regulates the question of terminals for intruded natural gas within the framework of Croatian legislation. This draft bill regulates the infrastructure of the natural gas terminal, which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. Rules and measures for the realisation of the natural gas terminal with a view to preserving the security of natural gas supply, the award of a concession on maritime good for the realisation of the natural gas terminal and the monitoring of infrastructure, as well as the unequivocally determining the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which enables the granting of real estate. The law also provides for concession compensation for maritime goods paid in favour of local self-government units. The annual concession fee for the first 25 years is 1 and a half million kuna per year where the state budget has given up one third of the corresponding revenue from the concession fee, so that two thirds of around 1 million kuna will be paid in favour of the municipalities of Omisalj, while one third of 500 000 kuna will be paid in favour of the Primorje-Gorski County. In addition to the above, it is arranged for a sea facility for the admission of landing, storage and implantation of natural gas which must be entered in the relevant Croatian register, which means that it must sail under the Croatian flag. This law also defines compulsory insurance and tax exemptions for persons on board maritime facilities and to encourage and ensure the employment of Croatian seamen on a maritime facility. Taking into account the fact that the strategic energy infrastructure in the area of the industrial hand is a specific solution to the award of concession on the maritime good for the purposes of the terminal for ingested natural gas on the island of Krk and the award of concessions for the sub-project of the construction of the natural gas supply site at the port of Rijeka, which is essential for the future supply of UPPs, ferrys, buses and trucks, and the detailed regulation includes the monitoring of natural gas infrastructures, including the infrastructure for further supply, as well as the unequivocally identifying of the interest of the Republic of Croatia which enables real estate to be awarded, we have approached the development of proposals for this special regulation which would be regulated in question within Croatian legislation. This project contributes largely to national and European energy and economic security and places the Republic of Croatia with a significant strategic and geopolitical position. The development of a project for the construction of a reception terminal on ingested natural gas will ensure a greater energy security market for the Republic of Croatia, a reduction in import gas prices and a reduction of dependence on imports of natural gas. It will also enable the opening of a new gas market through interconnection with the existing systems of neighbouring countries as well as the construction of new interconnections with BiH and Serbia and the expansion of the market to Central Europe countries such as Hungary, Ukraine, Austria and the Czech Republic. The strategic and geopolitical position of the terminal is complementary with the possibility of connecting to the Adriatic-Ionian pipeline and further connecting to the Trans-Adriatic pipeline. This integration would contribute to strengthening national and regional energy security of gas supply and economic stability, as well as to reducing import gas prices due to the new supply direction created. A positive example that supports all is stated by the floating LNG terminal Klaipeda in Lithuania. In fact, Lithuania does not own natural gas production but by releasing LNG terminals and receiving the first official delivery of ingested natural gas by its suppliers, in early 2015, Lithuania managed to reduce the amount of imported natural gas from Russia and lower its price by as much as 23%. It should be pointed out that this comprehensive energy project is in line with the EU Energy Development Strategy and documents such as the EU natural gas storage strategy and the EU energy security strategy. This project was declared a strategic energy project for the Republic of Croatia by the government's decision in July 2015. Since February 2016, the Commission has published a strategy for the storage of ingested natural gas and gas with particular emphasis on the diversification of supply routes, security of supply and the roles of ingested oil gas and in this document is listed as an important project for Central and South-Eastern Europe. The project was also included in the list of EU projects of common interest in November 2015 as one of 195 most significant strategic projects and it is important to note here that it was the same on the previous 2013 list. Just because Europe recognized the important project, it included it in its strategic energy project lists, the CEF Co-ordination Committee approved co-financing of the project with 102m euros in EU grants. The LNG terminal project is in an acceptable energy investment area and its development will have a positive impact on the employment of the required staff and services of the tertiary sector during construction and economic exploitation, which also contributes to increasing economic growth and development of the Republic of Croatia. Also from an ecological point of view, the terminal allows safe storage and transport of ingested natural gas and less carbon dioxide emissions and ingested natural gas is considered to be environmentally acceptable fuel especially in maritime and heavy truck transport of the Republic of Croatia and gravitating markets in Italy, Slovenia, Austria and Hungary. By adopting a draft bill, it will allow the implementation of a strategic project to build a terminal for ingested natural gas in phase 2. Construction of a floating terminal in the first phase and construction of a land terminal in the second phase, all in accordance with the deadlines and positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia. This long-awaited project finally came to the realization stage after more than 20 years and was given the last chance to impose the Republic of Croatia as a competitive energy partner relevant to global energy developments. By passing this law, we take responsibility for our citizens to guarantee the energy independence and security that we have the opportunity to witness today is imperative in terms of national security. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is proposed to adopt this draft draft law on an urgent procedure, given that it is particularly justified reasons since the realisation of the natural gas terminal is necessary for the security of gas supply to the Republic of Croatia through an alternative supply route. We therefore propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83865	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. I will take the opportunity to welcome a group of citizens from Omisalj Municipality who will attend the session of the Croatian Parliament. And now 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 replicas. [[Applause.]] How much? ... 22 replicas. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] The first line has Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83866	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, my first question and the reason why I raised the line before the secretary of state started speaking is, where's the minister? Where's the minister? On such a subject shared by the Croatian public, the minister did not deign to come before MPs and MPs and citizens to answer questions, probably afraid, no minister, is this not energy? Isn't this energy? Is it not possible to appoint a member of the government to answer questions because the government determines who will represent it but the second question is far more important than where the minister is? And that's the question of who's going to pay for this invaluable project. Article 12 The law stipulates that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will pay compensation to the operator for an invaluable project. How can you not be ashamed to suggest such a thing?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83867	Thank you very much. Answer me, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83868	Thank you. Dear Parliamentarian Grbin, where is the minister, here he is. I represent the minister. The Minister is in the government. The government of the Republic of Croatia has decreed... Do you mind? [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia has designated three representatives in this debate, Mr. Minister Coric, my pettyness and aide to Minister Validzic. So, Mr. Coric is in the cabinet session now, I'm here. It's about the first answer. As far as the second answer is concerned, I don't know where you read it that citizens are going to pay something that citizens don't normally pay because simply the article you called on says that, possibly, some of the costs can be estimated in tariffs to make up for any losses. But it's all under the system eventually and maybe. Which means the situation is such that it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83869	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you, thank you. Sir, what kind of greeting is that? I don't understand what kind of greeting that is. ... No, because first we'll end up with... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Word, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's looking for a break, you're looking for a break. [[You can't hear it.]] Would you be so solid towards your colleagues that they have the right to present their first... Wouldn't you be a solid? [[You can't hear it.]] Do you want solidarity or not? If you don't, I'll give you a replica. ... All right, I'll give you, and let your colleagues wait. [[You can't hear it.]] Here you go. Get up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83870	... Please, thank you. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Mr. Vice-President, after such a response to my reply to the esteemed Secretary of State, I have an obligation to request a recess so that we in the SDP Representatives' Club can agree on how we will participate in the further debate, after the minister has offended the Croatian Parliament in this way. I can fully understand that on the other side of Mark's square is a session of the government, but this is the Croatian Parliament that passed the laws. When we have such a law, which in this way shares the Croatian public, which opens such controversy, then the minister must be here and answer the questions of parliamentary deputies. It's a minimum of decency. And this 10-minute break, I hope you'll use it to call the minister and invite him to come and give the public a chance to hear him explain the disgrace he's proposing here. That's why I don't, I won't wait for the other MPs to give up their replicas, I'm looking for a break right now. And let me just say one more thing. In Article 12, the Honorable Secretary of State predicted a fee, and you didn't say how it would be defined, you didn't say who would pay for it. You left it to the Agency. And that's going to get to all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, by discussing the law, we still don't know which way and how much fees will be paid, but we can assume. And we can assume something else, and that's an art. The 6th, which says, changes in the investor's ownership structure are governed by the government of the Republic of Croatia. So, you have this law foresaw that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can privatize the operator at any time and this fee will be paid to someone we don't know who it is yet, and probably another group of Borg is behind it. That's why I'm asking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83871	Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you, thank you. You have 10 minutes, I hope you make a deal. Thank you very much. At 10.00, we move on. It's 9:50 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] Another replica has Mr. Marin Škibola and, according to Mr. Arsen Bauk, who I accept, I will also tell who is next, so prepare, the next Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, please welcome Mr. Škibola. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83873	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, I hope you are aware that a large number of citizens of the Primorian Mountain County are extremely concerned about the project by floating the LNG terminal. One question that interests more and more Croatian citizens is whether OLAF European Agency has launched an investigation into the spending of money on the LNG project? Please give a concrete answer and please do not obstruct, this question is very important, because certain media are saying so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83874	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83875	Thank you. As far as I know, I don't know what you're saying right now and I don't see any reason not to check it with the relevant institutions if you just said it, we're going to check it out on your question now what you're asking. And as for the awareness of whether citizens are concerned, we clearly follow what the public thinks, and we have proposed this law to this esteemed House, exclusively in accordance with all possible positive regulations, just so there are no objections with the public or with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83876	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic is behind him will be Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83877	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, I don't know how your face is no more red than the amount of lies you've told. That's embarrassing. Unfortunately, I had no business opportunity to seek and to react to the lies you have spoken by presenting this law, a law that unconstitutional, which violates a whole series of other laws, which threatens the European Charter, which investigates OLAF and which will not be concerned only for the citizens of the Primorian Mountain County, but for Croatia as a whole. So, we're going to pay cheaper gas to Hungarians and Serbs, and we're going to pay for more expensive gas, which you installed in the law and here you said, perhaps a subconscious example of how you're going to do it. As in Lithuania, so does Lithuania, all the citizens of Lithuania, whether they use gas, pay more expensive gas from their LNG and you do. Unconstitutional, illegal law here you represent, you legalize the violation of all laws of the Republic of Croatia. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83878	Thank you very much. All things can be said in different words, but I didn't interrupt you. Now there's Mr. Prelec, and behind him is Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83879	Thank you, Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State, my question is how can you work against the interests of the local population, against the interests of all the people of the island of Krk, against the local community, which should do something in the spatial plan. Here, I, as the head of a municipality in Croatia, must sympathize with the head of local self-government, who is being dealt with. They're all against, on Krk, against that floating terminal, and you insist. And I have a specific question, so please a concrete answer, without... How many phases of the LNG terminal project on the island of Krk? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a rumor somewhere he's got four, somewhere he's got two. Next, why do you claim building a floating terminal cheaper than land? And it is known that the macro-economic effects of the terminal... The natural gas on the island of Krk, i.e. the 2016 study, speaks exactly the opposite. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And one more question, why do you deliberately deceive the public and compare twice as much... A floating terminal and you say he's cheaper. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please give me a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83880	Mr. Prelec... No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Mr. Bauk, come in. Excuse the reply to the replica, excuse me, Mr. Bauk, reply to the replica, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83881	Dear Protectors above all, this law has been passed in accordance with all the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia and according to spatial plans, those same units of local and regional self-government that you said. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83882	Okay. Mr. Jovanovic, you have your first warning. Here you go. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83883	It's about spatial plans and laws. As for the price of the terminal, it is absolutely, the terminal land is twice as expensive as floating and the phase will be 2, first it will be floating and in the future land.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83884	Thank you very much, and now it's really Mr. Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83885	So, 2 SDPs, 2 HDZs, 2 independent and one PGS commander on the island of Krk against the floating terminal, 6 out of 7 representative bodies on the island of Krk against the floating terminal. Primorje Mountain County Assembly, unanimously against a floating terminal, 5000 protesters in Rijeka against a floating terminal, 19,000 citizens in a petition against a floating terminal. The Association of Homeland War veterans Krk officially took a stand against the floating LNG terminal and gave support to around 2000 defenders. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia says he contacted the local community and established dialogue with it, not true. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am now going to sign the amendments, I hope that by the end of the debate we will sign several hundred amendments, so if you do so, then you will reject our amendments, two days in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83886	Thank you very much. I forgot to say it's Mrs. Romana Jerkovic now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83887	Mr. Secretary of State, you claim this project is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, but I know it is not true and many of us know it is not true. You are, in fact, knowingly deluding the Croatian public. I have to ask you, who is this strategic interest to? Is it for you, for the Minister who has not come, for the Prime Minister, for Martina Dalic, an expert in lex specialis, for the European Commission, for whom? Is it a strategic interest to invest in the floating terminal infrastructure from citizens' pockets so that someone else and these foreigners can make a profit? So isn't it strategic interest to invest in your own sites, not our money to create infrastructure and give maritime good for 99 years. We practically give it away. So it seems to me that this is the second phase of the sale of the Republic of Croatia, and as the first phase ends, it is known.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83888	Thank you, Mrs. Jerkovic. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83889	Dear Parliamentarians. It is a project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is a clear law. As far as we are building this for foreigners, this project will be built by LNG Croatia d.o.o. owned by Plinacro and HEP, as far as I know, they are Croatian public companies owners and it is another public company and we are not selling out anything. It's just that this job has to be put on a concession because it's working on the maritime good and the procedure is known and that's it, I have nothing else to say to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83890	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Orepic's turn behind him will be Mr. Matteljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83891	On the one hand, you mention energy independence, national security is also mentioned in the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, and on the other hand we have unanimous opposition from the local community let's call it that. Can we conclude that the local community opposes the energy security of the Republic of Croatia, national security of the Republic of Croatia, strategic interests? And the key question I want to ask, why are we going to an emergency procedure? Whether or not the conditions for this law to be passed by a hasty procedure are met in order to have a hasty procedure that must have a previous impact assessment and that previous impact assessment should show or give some kind of dimension which will be the reason for the haste procedure. I think that these two reviews of your opinion, which you represent, i.e. the Government and the local community, through one more debate, need to be coordinated. Please answer, why...?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83892	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83893	Dear Parliamentarian, thank you for asking. The emergency procedure is because in the Republic of Croatia it is an interest to diversify supply routes and the interest is that what we have drawn in certain strategic documents is that it is the beginning of 2020 put into function of this terminal. Therefore, it takes urgency for all these deadlines to arrive and this law is clearly going towards that end, and all these deadlines are coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83894	Mr. Matteljan, here you go, and behind him, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. You said that this project is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, I can even agree with that because energy and their supply is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. However, here it should be added that this project is primarily a priority of the EU and a priority of the United States, which I personally have no problems with. In fact, we are part of Euro-Atlantic integration, so that's fine, but what if this project is primarily an EU priority that it proved by putting it on the list in 2013, which is why the whole market aspect of this story that can be negative falls on the back of the Republic of Croatia or on the back of our taxpayers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83896	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83897	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. It is a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia, and also an EU strategic project, which is how the EU has therefore approved 102m euros of grants for the project. And since it's going to fall on the burden of taxpayers, that absolutely doesn't stand. You know that the functioning of such systems is primarily based on market assessments and the price to be achieved on the market must be marketable for the system to function. This means the price cannot be raised in the heavens to make up for any losses as a Foll, so it does not seem that it will go to the burden of any taxpayers because in tariff prices it will be regulated according to the existing tariff prices will operate this LNG terminal. He must be able to fit into the tariffs that exist now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83898	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajdukovic, and behind him, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83899	Mr. Minister, you said, and LNG Croatia in its performances is constantly instructed that the floating LNG terminal is a commercial project intended for customers, primarily those outside the Republic of Croatia. The same are of course instructions during the presentation of the Environmental Impact Study when it was presented to the public. In the absence of adequate interest, the media wrote about it, so in the absence of the relevant customer interest, the project was now declared a strategic gas source in the event of a cease-up from Russian sources. However, you have not indicated anywhere what amounts of natural gas the Republic of Croatia really needs in the event of a suspension of the supply of Russian gas. Can these amounts be replaced through the underwater pipeline Pula, the North Adriatic Platform, Casal Borsetti Italy and through connection to the Baumgartner gas hub in Austria? Why not make up for this quantity by taking over the entire North Adriatic production, and why not strengthen our own production?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83900	Thank you. Here's your answer, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83901	Thank you. As for the potential supply, potential needs that Croatia should need in case Russia's gas does not come to Croatia, you know that Croatia imports 50% practically its needs, which means 2.7 billion cubic metres a year, half of which we import, so this new supply direction is not meaningless and it is important that there is any disturbance on the north side, that we have a new entry from the south, or on the sea side. And as far as this interconnection is concerned, as far as I know it's an interconnection, that's what these pipelines are for platforms, and that's now a topic to discuss whether something can be done, but as far as I know, it's for the INA platform... So it's not Plinar's system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83902	Mr. Pernar. Excuse me, Mr. Pernar, one second. ... Don't throw it at me, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83903	Your Excellency, I would like to point out to you the problem that the borrowing of these gas terminals throughout Europe is record low, only 23% and that this particular state, or some gas agency, is actually going to have to pay the difference in the price of terminal maintenance, and that will then be reflected in the price of gas for customers, which means that the gas will collect. And the other problem is that Croatia will have to invest at least 275m euros in this terminal, we should invest that money in renewable energy sources instead of in this terminal that we do not need, which is economically invaluable, or for example. We could have built a Peljek Bridge without funds from the EU. I think it's a waste of money, and it's in public when they get hit by more expensive gas bills to figure out where your politics and your government are taking them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83904	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83905	That's Mr. Pernar, thank you for asking. As for your forecasts that this terminal will be sub-capacitated, these are your predictions, we predict that it will work at full capacity and that these problems will not be. That's what it's all about. And as for the other question? As far as the investment is concerned, I'm sorry, as far as the investment is concerned, it's not about the amount of investment you said, so the total investment is now projected at 250m euros, of which 102 we have from the EU, meaning it's 150m euros to be provided for that investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83906	Thank you very much. Mr. Ostojić, behind him, Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83907	Dear Mr. Milatic. Given how much you're lying, you can definitely be Minister of the HDZ Government. You've only said so many false things in that opening statement that it's really a shame. I'm just going to ask you, would you talk like this if you were to be bound by a ship in Hvar for 99 years, and then you were also to be in the same situation as yourself to explain it? First you explain one basic thing to me, how can something that will be 99 years floating, how can it be the first phase of land construction? Why don't you at least explain it to us here to the MPs. And the other thing is the spatial plans of that community specifically talk about that it's an industrial zone. When you tie a ship there no one can come there anymore, it is not true that it is in line with any plans of the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83908	Mr. Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, here's what your colleague said earlier, you're also from the south, from the island and you know for yourself that the people of Krk live on tourism. 10% of total revenues are made up, Krk represents 10% of total tourism or translated 250m euros. But what I would ask you, and that applies to both your ministry and the Ministry of Tourism, is one ignoring relationship with the leaders of Omis who have tried to contact you on several occasions, sent letters, and you say you have made contact with them. Then why are they complaining that there is no answer by the Ministry of Tourism or by your ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83910	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83911	Dear Representative Matic, we have included the leaders of local self-government, including the municipality of Omisalj in all the legal procedures in which they should be involved and in this law we have amended the Law on concessions in such a way that we are part of the state, this bill provides for the Municipality of Omisalj. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83912	Mr. Matic, no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83913	I'm just saying what the law says. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83914	I'm sorry, but that's not how it works. Here you go, sir. No, it can't. And now he's Mr. Goran Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83915	Thank you. This issue has caused more divisions in society than any ideological issue, and since it is such a question that so many divisions in society cause opposition to local communities, opposition to environmental associations, opposition to opposition to opposition to opposition and authorities, I think it is simply not the time to carry out such a thing in action. You need to get a local community on your side. As long as you don't get a local community and environmental associations on your part, you can't pass such a law, and I think it's a lot of courage for a party that's worth maybe 15% of the total electoral body right now, I'm talking to a total electoral body, not a percentage of who you'd make in elections, with satellites that don't exist without you, it's a great courage to pass one such law that causes such divisions in society, far greater than any ideology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83916	Thank you, too. Mr. Bunjac. Here's after that, Mr. Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83917	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. Please answer the question in whose interest do you work? Do you work in the interest of the citizens of Omis, here they are at the gallery, I don't think so. Do you work in the interest of citizens who will be consumers of that gas? I don't think so. Why would I have to pay more expensive gas to get your government to touch the U.S. and buy their friendship? You pay out of your pocket. Here, when the gas is more expensive, I invite you to pay my share of that expensive gas and that group of Borg to pay the citizens to whom it will be too much. So you're trying to buy what? The President of the Republic's estate in front of the White House? Is this the fair policy that the United States leads us to, that we must be so obedient to them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83918	Thank you very much. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83919	If you ask me in whose interest I work, I work in the interest of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am in that position, I have been paying the tax neatly all these years of my life in my 50 years, and here in the indirect interest of the EU, that is what I have for you to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83920	Mr. Sincic, come in. And after that, I'm sorry, Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83921	Thank you, Chairman. This is about just one thing, as I'm going to say in my speech, this has nothing to do with gas, it doesn't have much to do with the development of technology, it doesn't matter about supply, this is one marketing political project. If we look at a wider picture, we'll see that Mr Trump and his associate Mike Pompeo are lobbying around Europe these days and pressing Germany not to build North Stream 2 but to fully bind to the American pin that will come to European LNG terminals. Germany has the strength to say no, Croatia which is not an independent state does not have the strength to say no, it is clear that the Croatian government has given in to these interests. The Americans will profit, they will sell there, the losses will be evident, that's what the Atlantic Council said, the American Thin Tank that deals with energy thinking in Europe, it's clear that it has nothing to do with profitability but that it's still a matter of some kind of reserve if you don't give God, we infect Russia that we have some additional source here. So, they say they'll work with a loss, so don't say we won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83922	Thank you, Mr. Sincic, for your time. There's no answer. Mrs. Alfirev and behind her, Mr. Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83923	Dear Secretary of State, here I will specifically ask you about the study of the macroeconomic effects of the natural gas terminal on the island of Krk in 2016, why do you keep the results of this study secret? Secondly, explain why the citizens had to pay for the 2016 study which actually spoke, which rejected the floating terminal as invaluable and ecologically harmful. And it went into construction and the citizens had to pay for a new study again this year, which brings quite different results. And finally, tell me, since we see everyone doing this together without any local consent, what can we call this rape?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83924	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83925	Thank you, Your Honor. As for the local community, the minister had four meetings with the local community in the process of passing the law. And as far as I'm concerned, [[I'm sorry, but you can't do that.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83926	But you can't do that, you have a chance to make a press conference, you have a hundred opportunities but in Parliament no, please. Not even MPs can throw away a gallery. I'm sorry, but those are the rules. I'm not saying my opinion, I'm just saying what the rules are. Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83927	As for this study you mention, in this study as far as I know, it was shown to rent the ship and to rent 50m euros annually. Clearly, today we are not predicting such a situation at all but buying a boat and it is a very different situation in terms of physicality and everything else and that is why today's study is possible and it was not possible and it was not paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia but by LNG d.o.o. Croatia from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83928	Thank you very much. Next replica, Mr Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83929	Respected, the SDP as well as citizens of the Municipality of Omisalj and the entire Primorje-Gorski County support a land LNG terminal for which there is a local license, which is developed, environmentally acceptable and which opens new jobs. Unlike this bill, the lex LNG that's been passed in a way that's non-transparent, in a hurry and under the table comes into this assembly and I ask you, are you, too, because of that in some way, part of some group of Borg? Because the way you bring lex LNG today is identical to the way you brought lex Agrokor. Not taking care of environmental standards and going against the will of the citizens of Omis and the entire Primorje-Gorski County. The whole scenario, so Lex LNG and Lex Agrokor have a scenario that you can be the same, part of the actors in this situation is different and the consequences can be catastrophic for all citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83930	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Okay, the next line has Mr. Varda. And then behind him, Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83931	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, it is my desire that you from this pay phone answer specifically to preventive measures for security of supply. I have to admit from my explanation, I didn't see a solution. Namely, you claim in your argument that it will not cost end-users, and in addition to Article 6, Article 6. 12. You say, the transport system operator collects the supply security fee, and pays it in favour of the terminal operator. From whom does he collect compensation? I guess from the consumers and from the citizens. And how does this preventive supply security measure and that compensation not affect the end-user gas price? I'd like to ask you a concrete answer, actually the public is interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83932	Thank you, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83933	It won't affect the gas price as far as the end-user is concerned because imagine, we're buying gas from our northern supply routes today, meaning in principle from... And so this is going to be another supply route. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And regardless of which supply route gas is purchased, it must be such a price to be acceptable to the market and to those selling gas, and clearly that the gas in its price structure has two items, which is the price of gas as gas and is the second price of tariffs. In this case, it is clear that the terminal for ingested natural gas is a company that will have its own tariff because it will be a company in which HERA will determine revenue. In that part, it's going to be mentioned because that's how it's going to have to be, but that doesn't mean that something else is going to be gathered. Simply, it'll be at a total price. I told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83934	Thank you very much. No direct communication. Mr. Churay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83935	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, two questions or actually clarifications. First of all, I find it a little strange that we are now discussing on some sides where until yesterday they were all obviously for land, so then some of them in the meantime suggested instead of on-shore to go off-shore, so my first question is why change, for which reasons. The second question is about the financial aspects of everything. Have you mentioned, in this regard, certain numbers co-financed by the European Commission, perhaps which also speaks about the need for urgency of the procedure itself and what is very important, what are we doing here? We're dealing with security of supply and price. Now that the market situation is good, nobody's focused on this. Tomorrow, let one supply route be interrupted, let people pay astronomical prices or God forbid in winter they run out of gas, who'll be responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83936	Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83937	I agree, Mr. Honorable Parliamentarian with you. It's clear that this is one phase, one project that will make a new supply direction that makes sense, which is real. The total capacity of this project is 2.5 billion cubic meters per year. This is what can be missed with the current RH gas system. And why LNG land phase two? Because these are higher capacities and for that, the gas system should be expanded, but market needs should also be. We estimate that this part can develop and that it will eventually find its market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83938	Thank you very much. Mr. Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83939	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here, it is known in fact that this Law is nothing more than a repair of a poorly run project. So here is the need to introduce this Law in order to speed up the processes, and in fact it's just an ironing of a poorly run project, so I'm interested in the Secretary of State's comment on this and in what way, in his debate, he said that this project contributes to energy independence. I wonder to what extent? And second question, do you personally believe that you will sell all the necessary capacities or that the interest of the market will be sufficient for this project to be realised in the finale and how much interest has been shown so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83940	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83941	As far as energy security is concerned, we believe that diversification of the source is contributing to energy security. Independence, excuse me. Independence because you're more independent if you have more alternatives. And as for whether or not we believe in whether capacity will be booked, we clearly believe. We wouldn't go into this if we didn't believe it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83942	Thank you very much. And the last line has Mr. Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83943	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, state secretary, respected representatives of the local communities of Krk and Eco-Kvarner. The first time a project to build LNG terminal is mentioned in '95. A year. That's when the first research was developed. The feasibility study was completed in 2008 and the local authorisation was presented in 2010. On 16 July 2015, the SDP government decided to declare LNG terminals a strategic investment, the SDP government. 2017. The local community, the county and the ecological associations stood up against the floating terminal. Key persons who today are against, Mayor and Eco-Kvarner, Mr. Piršić, previously spoke positively about the construction of a floating terminal. The question is, why have we waited so long? Many of you here are economists and you know what a multiplier effect investment is on the economy and the standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83944	Thank you, too. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83945	We agree with everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83946	Okay. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is Mr. Slaven Dobrović in front of the club of representatives of the independent lists. Here, you have the right to a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers, state secretary with associates, therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues and distinguished guests from Kvarner. So, the law on LNG or the terminal for in-purchased natural gas I will start with the first position, that I really think that the terminal for ingested natural gas is a strategically justified project, therefore, that it is a project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. So why is that? We have a new supply direction first, therefore, it is known that Croatia is a gas producer, however, that the production capacity from year to year decreases and that we are increasingly dependent on imports. And therefore the new supply direction is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, it is very important that this also coincides with the strategic interest of Europe and therefore this project is recognised and put on the list, projects of common interest. Therefore, it offers security of energy supply and for this reason we have received, I was in the government as a minister, when we received a grant, therefore, from the European funds of 102m euros for, on behalf of the terminal itself. Of course, this brings Croatia's position on Europe's energy map and it certainly does not matter. In fact, there was talk of such a project being carried, it has the character of a dual project, because there are already terminals for ingested natural gas and their exploitation is relatively low. However, it is very important to know that gas, according to projections, will experience importance in the period, because in one energy transition, according to renewable energy sources, gas should be the one, which would make a quick replacement for consumers of heavy fuels, so diesel and then gasoline, therefore, with natural gas, which is the cleanest fossil fuel. And that's important, of course, is not our goal of wasting gas, until I don't know when or whenever there is it, but in a better way, to stop the consumption of heavy fuels and to experience transition as much as possible of the renewable energy sources represented, therefore electricity, all transport. What's that natural gas? That's the angle. methane, therefore, has some ethanol and there are, of course, other compounds, its combustion is important, simpler, cleaner, and if we compare to the consumption of diesel fuels, we have a huge reduction that is more than 99% for particle emissions, so, so, so, so we have a huge decrease that is also over 99.9% for sulphur, so sulphur oxides. We have a significant reduction of 80% for nitrogen oxides, and since the gas has the chemical composition that it has, for example, the diesel results in a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, or CO2 because it has more, of course, greater element represented by hydrogen. Therefore, the replacement of transport fuel, which is scheduled to bring major improvements in air quality, therefore, to land transport, but also to maritime transport. I see here a great opportunity for Croatian shipbuilding, which in the next period could rapidly acquire knowledge in the construction of low-temperature equipment, because, of course, the great plan and the Mediterranean is turned into a blue Mediterranean, by which ships will sail exclusively on clean fuels. So, if we're somewhere on the side, then this biker, therefore, gas detour, for all the vessels that are coming, including cruisers and transport ships, will take place somewhere else, instead of going under emergency, because despite the fact that there is redundancy, this is a strategic project, which is more urgent to build a terminal, which could be there very quickly. Well, something about the law, the environmental aspects, and I personally participated in the public discussion, on the proposed solutions in the environmental impact study, where they propose an open circle, therefore, cooling, therefore, it is not a cooling process, but a heating of the evaporator, therefore the evaporative surface and use of the sea for that purpose and the use of the target on the basis of chlorine, therefore, electrolytically produced chlorine, I believe that such a solution is not justified and that, despite the fact that experts in the study have determined that this is a negligible impact, Croatia should require something a little more expensive, therefore, to spend 1.3% of the gas, for the heating of these evaporating pipes, therefore, this raises operational costs, but it is really negligible, given the unpredictable risk that we take if we allow the operator to use chlorine in its assessment. Of course, then he's free, his operating expenses, regulate on his own terms, when there's that possibility. Therefore, we believe that only a closed circle would be allowed, without the use of the sea, and in this respect we as the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge will give an amendment in which we add the item that defines it. The other problem is really a visible bad communication with local and regional self-government, and I think it's a really bad situation that it must and can be done differently. Of course, one part of the occasion is the insistence on this ecologically poor solution to evaporation technology. We have the view that this problem of poor communication and open opposition to local and regional self-government can be corrected by better communication and changes in the project that eliminate the main environmental concerns of this project because when the problem of chlorine is removed, I believe that the boat's vision is not something that is a problem because when you look at the visor in that area then you will see already existing tanks, you will see across the road and the refinery and the thermopower plant, and it is indeed an industrial environment that does not allow us to do circuses there now, but it allows us to add objects that respect the most ecological standards and which are industrially able to revive that end. We have also prepared an amendment to make compensation as some sign of a presentation as to how it can be done, not to say it can't be done anymore. So we suggest that the fee per square metre be raised from two to two kunas in the first stage, and in the second phase from 4 to 5 kuna per square metre of this good given to the concessionary at its disposal. The second thing is that this concession period is up to 99 years too long by our assessment and by the third amendment we propose that it be reduced to 40 years. Of course, the duration of this floating terminal is expected to be shorter because the gas market should be strengthened, consumption capacity increases naturally to reduce the consumption of bad fuels. We therefore believe that the two phases of this project in which, due to the fact that the current market development and the current market needs do not justify the construction of a large land project, that this is a good transitional solution and the acquisition of good positions because now it is time for Croatia to gain a strategic position on Croatia's energy map. I also believe that Croatia should have done more in terms of diplomacy. In fact, we should have already made clear arrangements with our northern neighbours who are naturally interested in these supply facilities because without them, without their guarantee of course it is more important to go into this project and that there must be a much faster solution and certain guarantees from the north on the lease of these capacities. So this initial failure to show interest in the lease capacity could be believed to be corrected. What is even more important is that this huge cooling energy accumulated in the installation of gas in the society that we all have to build, it is a society that respects the principles of sustainable development and optimal use of energy resources that type of energy is precious to every production plant and we think that the great chance of raising the degree of sustainability and efficiency of this system is a synergy of linking with the industry that already exists there. So Dina Petrochemy could start producing something, and every production plant needs energy, it needs cooling energy, and by connecting these plants, there are significant increases, we know in technicals, significant increases in efficiency or less energy consumption per unit of a product. So here I will not prolong, we as a club will propose I have said three amendments with which I consider to achieve the situation of significantly greater acceptance of this law for a unit of local and regional self-government because it is not good for Croatia to fit in this project. He really has a character of strategic interest for all of Croatia for Southeast Europe, but I also think of the local community because there are plenty of new jobs, there are many services that can be created and that will be done by locals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83948	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Tulio Demetlika's turn in front of the IDS, PGS, RI. Here you go, Tulio.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on a gas terminal that should allow for the rapid construction of an extremely controversial project of a floating LNG terminal near Omis on the island of Krk. This law is unfortunately adopted by an emergency procedure, which means reducing the time for public debate, for showing institutions, the bodies of regional and local self-government as well as the citizens themselves, which is why we from our club strongly oppose. The terminal for ingested natural gas on the island of Krk was declared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission by a strategic energy project. However, in order to achieve that is not enough, it is necessary to pass this law, a law called lex LNG. At the very beginning, I must point out that it is a project that has encountered an extremely large resistance from the local community. In addition, a long term of proposed concessions on maritime goods declared by the Constitution as being of good interest to the Republic of Croatia, as well as the fact that only 15 days have been set for public consultation on this draft law. I find such a short term absolutely inappropriate, especially because of the fact that it is one of the laws of which there is a great public interest. Also, such a short period is certainly not enough to achieve the objectives for which the public debate is even being held. We of course, by the old, well-known custom, always repeat mistakes and do everything on the horror, the verse, from case to case, according to directives on the outside, without clear our strategies and quality spatial planning at the state level. And then the easiest thing to do is accuse the local and regional self-government of holding back the implementation of the projects, in order to cover up the trombone and ineffectiveness of the state administration in timely planning. I can freely say that there is a recurring story with Agrokora because we see that even when this law was passed, public and transparent communication with local self-government and interested public is missing. The European Charter of Regional Self-Government is also being cruelly violated, as it interprets the non-compliance with the existing spatial plans of the municipality of Omisalj and the Primorje-Gorski County, the failure to respect unanimously voted decisions of the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly and the council of all units of the local self-government of the island of Krk, which they have declared against this project. The question is, why is it always like that? Why do we always put ourselves in a position to not solve important problems systematically and in the long term and in collaboration with local and regional self-government, but always impose solutions on them by force, quickly, in the short term and in fact only delay existing and create new problems. I would like to remind you that we from the IDS Club in the adoption of the Strategic Investments Act have shown the need to include in the law a provision requiring the opinion of representative bodies and units of local self-government, which is intended to implement a project of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, however, this has also lagging behind. We will all agree that the realisation of this project represents the state interests and interests of the EU, but I ask the question, what is the interest of the local population? What about the local community interest? What does the local community get and what does it lose? We at the club IDS, PGS and RIA, after thoroughly studying the bill's proposal, are unable to take the impression that this extremely important law is reduced to only 14 articles without a quality explanation. What I will point out as worrying is that it is an extremely long time period on which the concession is planned to be given. 99 years, actually. In determining the time limit on which the concession is granted, as well as in determining the level of the concession fee, the basis for calculating should be a study of the eligibility of the concession. Indeed, it is not clear which criteria were decisive to assess that the concession for such a long period is necessary. In addition, I must say that in this case, the concession is granted by this law, without implementing the usual procedure that all concessionaries in the Republic of Croatia must pass and which is contrary to the Law on concessions. That is why we at our club believe that with the award of concessions to this law, without a concession procedure that would be transparent and based on criteria that ensure effective market access, all EU economic operators are subject to domestic and European law for as long as 99 years. As regards the level of concession fee, it is unclear on the basis of which criteria the applicant has set the level of concession fee, and in addition, we can conclude that it is extremely low and thus the renegotiated units of local self-government, i.e. in this case the municipalities of Omisalj and the Primorje-Gorski County. The bill also states that a project to build a natural gas terminal on the island of Krk foresees two stages of construction and this first phase includes a floating terminal and the other land. The question arises why would the second phase of the rightful location permit not be implemented first? If the investor has good intentions to realise the project, then let him start building a second phase for which there is a local and regional regional self-government license to agree or to hide something there again. Another question arises, who can guarantee that a land terminal will be built at all? When the first terminal is built, the sea and eventually shows that the capacities are satisfactory, who assures us that they will be going to build another land terminal in the first place? The reason for the law indicates that the first phase of construction involves construction, i.e. the acquisition of a floating terminal consisting of a ship to be used for the reception, landing, storage and implantation of the natural gas involved. According to the information available, one ship almost 40 years old represents an additional danger to the environment. It seems that Croatia is approaching, I will tell Bangladesh and we will be a cemetery for, or a dump for waste, because this old ship certainly with the technology it has does not represent a certain and great security for environmental protection. I wonder if one ship with a newer date of production can be found on this globe. I'm surprised they didn't use it to get the Titanic out of the bottom of the ocean to sell it to us at the price provided for by this law. Since the project foresees two stages of construction, it would be logical to develop an overall environmental impact study covering both phases of the project, not each individual. It is also worrying that there are no additional provisions in the bill that would protect the environment. In addition, we at our club are concerned about the effects this project will have on the development of tourism in the northern Adriatic. Namely, the island of Krk, as well as the entire region, seeks to brand itself as a desirable tourist destination, but the question is to what extent it will be possible if this project is realised. I remind you that Croatia, annually, makes billions of euros in income from tourism, and that money is the result of, among other things, our preserved environment, the clean sea, of course, and the efforts of our tourist workers, which imposes on us all the obligation to behave responsibly and not to endanger what we live on. Encouraging negative effects, such a project in society, local community, environment, economy, as well as non-compliance with common procedures, in order to implement such projects is in fact jeopardising the development potential of Croatian society. Therefore, we accept only the land terminal, which already exists a local permit and which is not opposed by local communities. Of course, provided that everything is implemented in accordance with the law and the regular procedure and with respect to the highest ecological standards. To conclude, for all of these reasons, we at the IDS Club, the PGS and the LRI cannot support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83950	Thank you very much, Mr. Dmetlika, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, in front of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83951	Dear Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, today we witness one rape of democracy, rape of the Constitution, rape of the law. Lex LNG, according to all its characteristics, is an inadmissible violation of the Constitution, numerous laws of the Republic of Croatia, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. An ultra-short 15-day debate, scheduled for 30 days, is an emergency procedure, only showing the proposing's intentions. My colleagues and colleagues, no matter which foreigners they belonged to, I'll remind you, that we, as parliamentary representatives, have two signposts in our work. First, in the assembly we swore to assume our duty, that we would respect the Constitution and the law and secondly, to represent our citizens, our constituents, to talk about their interest. In all of this, so-called. Lex LNG is not in the interest of the citizens of Omis, Rijeka, the coastal mountainous county but also of all Croatian citizens, as we have already heard. It is not in accordance with the Constitution, the existing laws, the acts of the municipality of Omisalj, the congregation of the coastal mountainous region, or the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It is obvious, therefore, that it is only in the interest of certain stakeholders and lobbyes. Does that sound familiar to you, given everything that's been going on these past few weeks? It is also clear that the floating terminal is not neutral for people and the environment, but it does not bring any benefit to the local community, so it is impossible to support it. So, this is where my debate might end, because these are two key facts that no one can slow down. First, this proposal is not in line with the Constitution and the whole series of laws, and secondly, it is opposed to all residents, therefore, all, regardless of the party membership of Omis, Krka, Rijeka, Primorje Goran County, and I am convinced that after today's debate, all Croatian citizens will also oppose because they do not want to pay gas for Hungary and Serbia from their wallets. So that's where my debate might end. But precisely because the public didn't hear enough, and from the opening presentation of the secretary of state, to be gentle, she heard only the truth, let me, as far as I get on behalf of the club, individually, as well as my colleagues, point to a whole series of illegalities of the proposed law and a whole series of reasons why floating LNG is not an acceptable solution for Croatia, with persistent repetition that Omisalj, Krk, Rijeka, Primorje Goran County, we Assembly representatives, support as a strategic interest in the land LNG terminal. So let's start with the decisions of the municipal council and the coastal mountain counties that set four e-conditions to agree to the LNG terminal. These are aesthetic, ecological, economic and energy. We have a few documents that show it. So, the municipal council disagrees with the construction of the proposed project, the Omis municipal council, the floating LNG terminal, because it offers, for the municipality nothing useful, and it is economically harmful, and ecologically risky. We believe that the environmental impact study, made on the surface, is not fully and professionally founded, precisely from the aspect of economic impact and environmental conservation, as the project seriously endangers our dominant economic activity of tourism. Construction of the proposed floating LNG terminal,... the ability to use, well check and completely prevent the use of areas planned for industry, the area of the former... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] petrochemicals, at the same time expanding the industrial zone, which is considered irrational and unacceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The coastal mountain county, the assembly's decision, unanimously, supports all strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia that have no negative impact on the environment and on existing economic activities, particularly tourism, and those that permanently bring economic profits to the local and regional communities. It is found that the floating LNG terminal operation, as shown in the environmental impact study, changes to the reception terminal for ingested natural gas on the island of Krk, by introducing a phase of the floating terminal to accept the implantation, is not acceptable for the Primorian Mountain County, because it has a negative impact, on the landscape of the sea and the use of space, and does not bring benefits to the local and regional community. The coastal mountain county therefore supports the continuation of the land LNG terminal. The last decision of 29 March 2018 without any vote against the Primorje-goranska Assembly is also determined that the study is called “The macroeconomic effects of the natural gas terminal on the island of Krk” co-financed by the European Commission, and for the client LNG Croatia made ECONERG d.o.o. With regard to the location of the safety impact on the environment and the overall economic effects clearly demonstrated, it certainly proved an advantage in selecting the land terminal variant from the floating LNG terminal variant. So it is incomprehensible to listen today to these untruths that come from the competent ministry because it is clear that it is an unacceptable project that is being adopted which is most tragic without cooperation with the local community. We heard on several occasions about close contacts with the Omisalj Municipality which is everything, now I can't tell the truth, but a lie, a faceless lie. In the preparation of the investment, unlike land with a floating version, there was a lack of connection of the project with potential consumers in Kvarner who could use gas to deal with a land terminal such as Plinska Te on Urinj, a coolant, air conditioning for the tourism sector where PGZ could find its own interest. Investments in the land terminal would also engage domestic operations. Today we also heard from the secretary of state about some possible contributions to the economy, which is a complete lie. In the initial project of the land terminal for which all possible permits have been issued, the investment of around 500 million euros would have been paid at least 200 million euros in domestic operations and the project would have a number of multiplier effects and benefits for the local environment, such as GDP. It would grow by as much as 0.5% from that project alone. Otherwise, I cannot mention that the present representatives of the Omis and PGZ population have already been played countless times in the realization of various major projects of strategic interest for Croatia, to mention DINA and its extremely dangerous waste still standing there despite promises here by the present minister or the Urinj Refinery which has not been modernised or there is any guarantee that you will be on the gas on Urinj. Allow me to present some evidence of a lack of respect for Omisalj Municipality through the placement of the thesis on LNG as a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. The municipality of Omisalj, the island of Krk, the town of Rijeka and the entire PGZ support all strategic special energy projects in the interest of the Republic of Croatia to make everything clear immediately. Besides, you know how Omisalj looks, there's DINA, there's JANAF, there's a facility there on May 3rd, there's an airport, so they support strategic projects consciously agreeing and reducing the quality of their lives when it comes to the real interests of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is clear that the construction of a floating LNG terminal is not in the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, nothing and nowhere has the Government of the Republic of Croatia proved the strategic interest of this floating terminal for Croatia. A few examples of total disrespect for the local population. The municipality of Omisalj addressed the government of RH Mr Plenkovic and then Vice President Dalic on two occasions and requested a discussion on the project of a floating LNG terminal. Not a single letter from the municipalities was answered. The municipality of Omisalj asked the Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection Tomislav Ćorić in writing for a feasibility study of a floating LNG terminal project that should also show the alleged strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, the guess never received an answer. The municipality has never received an answer, which is particularly tragic because Mr. Cappelli probably spends every day, a week passing by Krk, has not received a response from the Ministry of Tourism and HTZ on the subject of direct damage that the project of the floating LNG terminal will have on the island of Krk tourism, which is worth as much as 10% in tourism. Another lie we have heard today, so the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia is explained in public documents only by ensuring diversification of supply routes and sources of supply. However, there is a black-and-white document from the Council of Europe and the European Parliament where it says "there is no" co-worker and co-worker "there is no likelihood of a break in the supply of RH gas in the event of a complete break in the gas flow from Russia. Such a probability exists for Hungary, Serbia, BiH." If there was a need for gas from a planned floating LNG terminal, Croatia would likely have purchased capacity to provide its citizens with a source of supply and diversification of supply routes as they say. It is true, therefore, that the Republic of Croatia will pay insurance for the security of gas supply to Hungary with this lex, and thus all citizens of the Republic of Croatia will actually pay for the security of supply of gas. Let's be honest, it's a Hungarian strategic priority. If, for any reason, the Republic of Croatia is left without Russian gas which would otherwise start 20% cheaper than any other competitor, the Republic of Croatia may replace the missing quantities from different sources of North Africa, Norway, via the Baumgarten gas hub or from Italy for which there is infrastructure. A thorough question of colleagues and colleagues to whom no one from the Government of the Republic of Croatia has yet to offer an answer. How much gas does Croatia really need in the event of a break in Russian gas supply? We will answer, according to all available data it can be at most one billion cubic metres of gas per year, and that quantity will simply be compensated through the systems mentioned earlier. Otherwise, Croatia needs about 2.5 billion cubic metres of which it produces a billion and a half. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister and the Resolute Minister have never tried to explain or answer the question of what the state's strategic interest is doing other than the floscule on another supply route or on the issue of which the gas will arrive, at which price, who are gas buyers, etc. Something about a completely unmistakable legal inexplicability. The floating LNG terminal is not in line with the spatial plan of the Municipality of Omisalj and PGG on this lie was spoken by the Secretary of State, the key message that Croatian citizens from this assembly must hear by floating LNG terminal is not in line with the spatial plan of the Municipality of Omisalj and PG, and there is the story of standing colleagues and colleagues, we cannot break our laws. In order to develop an environmental impact study for a project, the project should first be in line with the spatial plan. That's not the case here. What laws are being broken? Law on spatial planning, Law on construction, Law on maritime good and seaports, Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, European Charter of Local Self-Government. It would be interesting to hear who wrote this law in the first place. Lex LNG? It should become a rule in the Republic of Croatia, especially when we have lex specialises because we have seen what epic conflict of interest happened with lex Agrokora, and now according to all the data the same is repeated with lex LNG. It would not be good if the LNG Croatia administration participated in this writing with the intention of providing itself with a monopolitical position at the expense of consumers, taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, and unfortunately that is exactly what is happening. Especially scandalous in this proposal is related to the environmental impact study for the floating terminal. It is one of the nadal documents paid for by the public money of the Republic of Croatia, in which the maker, good case, Ecoenerg claims the opposite of what the same Ecoenerg claimed during Oreshkovic's government in another document which was also paid for by public money from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is particularly concerned that this proposal accepts the method and technology of regasification, hence the conversion of liquid gas into a gas state, which the Ministry of Environmental Protection, fellow Members and colleagues has explicitly rejected as harmful. The sea used to heat liquid gas in order to translate into a gaseous state and wash out ship's heat exchangers with a varicine released into the sea of 300 tonnes per year, so you know what kind of disaster is ecological to our... The bay? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why is that? Well, because it's the cheapest. And who does it matter to? For foreign investors' profits. So there were 160, and yet another disrespect for the citizens of Omis. The public debate on the impact study was held in Omisalj, which included 400 citizens, 400 citizens of 3000 inhabitants, enough to say how much interest it was, 160 of whom made written remarks, a total of 850, never in the history of the Primorje-Gorski County recorded such an interest and opposition to the public, nothing was respected. Therefore, from what I have said so far, and there is much more to talk about in an individual debate together with my colleagues, it is clear that this law is the law of the violation of the Constitution, the law and the rape of the will of the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County, the island of Krk and Omis, and probably should represent the interests of the citizens in this House. Here's a petition with 15,000 signatures, so her title is we consider the project to be a floating... Unacceptable from a legal, economic and ecological point of view and we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to give up its realisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Back us up on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83952	Thank you, colleague Ivanovic. Next on behalf of GLAS Club, HSU colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83953	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a very unusual law, the law on LNG, that I call it, lex specialis, has relatively few articles and it was somehow expected that he and in the debate to be affirmatively accepted, but that is not the case. LNG terminal and LNG are not talking about yesterday, we've been talking about LNG for years, we're talking about LNG as a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, and that's how it is and now comes big but. In 2013, you know, history is a life teacher, so let's go a little historically. In 2013, it was declared a strategic interest, I don't know which time, in 2014, an environmental impact assessment was made, in 2015 a local authorisation was issued and then we keep quiet there until 2017 and in 2017 we will no longer have an excellent solution to LNG on land, we will have a floating terminal. What exactly are we talking about? We're talking about the fact that LNG was always planned on land, that we had an industrial port, that the ship was coming to an industrial port and that the ship was running with LNG on land. And now we come up with a rescue idea, because obviously there's a problem why there can't be LNG on land for the simple reason why they're obviously problematic property-legal relations, so the land was bought, so it was reselling, so it's a property issue and we come up with a rescue idea, we're going to have LNG at sea to have it. And now I'm asking you, all the colleagues who are from the sea, who are even mayors and mayors, you have ports that are of state, county, local importance and we have different ideas, investors have different ideas, you have now investors who will tell you because it's a port? It is. 'Cause there's a boat coming to the port? You got it. I'm gonna anchor that boat and I'm gonna have a hotel on that boat, and I'm gonna have a restaurant on that boat, so all those cafes you gave the concessions to on the coast, because they're gonna work or I don't care, I'm gonna have it on board. We're talking about this in relation to spatial planning documentation. We're saying that spatial planning documentation has told the port, and we're going to get the ship, we're going to anchor the ship, and we're going to do production on it. There's no reason to go to some port, and there were such ideas that we were opposed to, someone puts a boat or puts a nice wooden platform, puts a path to the coast, and on that, there's cafes, there's some accommodation facilities, all environmentally acceptable, excellent. What would they discuss with me? They'd say it's a great project, they'd say it's environmentally acceptable, it's got nice drains, water, electricity, everything. Would that be acceptable to us? What would it look like if suddenly, in our coastal municipalities and cities, someone set up such ships, and there are restaurants and hotels on those ships. So take a step, then, by letting this one go, we'll make it happen. So much for harmonising with spatial planning documentation, so much for that problem. It's an environmental impact study. We had an environmental impact study in 2014, which talked about land, and then there was another environmental impact study that was talking about the sea terminal, to call it that, and she said it could be 10 years. And in 10 years, what are we doing? We don't know. What's that floating thing? We don't know. Whose ship is it? We don't know that either. So this law should be looked at in several contexts. One context is the spatial legal and environmental protection where the law is regulated to apply, that they are not lex specialis, the Environmental and Spatial Protection Act is applied and the fundamental laws are then interpreted as being in accordance with the spatial plan. You know, I'm telling you what it's about. Tomorrow, with full right, the investor will come in and say, "Why don't I put a boat on the boat, have a hotel on board, everything will be environmentally acceptable, and I'll do the catering, and that's what you gave the cafes a concession, which they pay dearly, that someone invested money and funds in the hotel, I don't care, here I am. That's what we're talking about because we need to understand that this, when you open the Pandora's box once, you open it forever. I had over a few meetings where there was an investor who had such an idea and where I defended simply because it was inadmissible. Our coast is specific and there are values we need to protect. After this, what is your defense mechanism compared to any investor? It's from the aspect of spatial order and everything will be justified. From the point of view of the study, she says for 10 years. What a ship, what a ship, whose ship. Now we come up with an environmental impact assessment that's been done correctly, but for something that's been going on for 10 years. For the problem of cooling, the problem, let's get along. Kvarner Bay is a small bay, the Adriatic Sea is a small bay compared to the oceans, and what is true for the oceans is not valid for the Adriatic Sea and we need to be aware of that and I'm sure we all know that. Now let's go to economic, economic elements. What we always care about, interests are jobs. I personally think that every job is important and if there is a project that will provide two jobs, it is important that we stand behind it for this project and say it is good. As regards the provision of an article, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 6th said, this law is a lex specialis in what things? Which defined who the investor was, which immediately said we were giving concessions, gave all the elements of the concession and said compared to the maritime well-being. Therefore, in relation to maritime well-being, the law does not apply to concessions, this Law is a direct concession and a direct investor. Who's the investor? LNG Croatia. Whose own is LNG Croatia? Half a hep half a plinacro. Paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure. 6th says: that the government can make a decision to change investors. My people, who do we work for, Lex LNG? What are we going to have in this House tomorrow, and what are we going to discuss tomorrow? Who's the investor of LNG? Who's behind this? That's the key questions. A aspect of the protection of spatial order, I explained to you what I'm talking about very clearly. The aspect of environmental protection is just the same, it's all written. What doesn't say, who's behind it? What investor? Whose interest is that? In this country it's much simpler to say no than to say yes. And that's the siren's call each of us has a hard time resisting. Let's be against it, so it's simpler for us. We in GLAS and HSU and myself personally have no problem saying for a good project at all. We don't have a problem getting out of a good project at all. But we have a big problem when the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia is to draw a ship, install a ship we call LNG and all economic risks and market risks to bear. I have a big problem here. I have a big problem when I know that in Livorno LNG, which was initially thought to be worth 250m euros eventually cost 900m euros, when between 150m euros and 900m euros all the difference was borne by citizens of the neighbouring country, in Croatia it would be citizens of Croatia. We have a problem here. Public relations aren't easy. The worst thing for you is when you don't talk to your citizens or hide from your citizens. So, the minimum courtesy of a ministry, the minimum of decency, is to go and ask for citizens to come out, talk to them and explain to them what it is. To listen to questions and to answer questions. It's a minimum of one ministry's decency and a minimum of the government's decency. There are no first-, second-, fourth-row citizens in this country, at least for now. They may be there at some point, but at least now they're gone and there's no formality. Every citizen needs to get out, which is not easy every time. The way they tell you, they tell you a lot of times what they think of you, they say what they think of the projects. So this is, I don't doubt, a strategic project of interest for the Republic of Croatia. So when the strategic project is of interest to the Republic of Croatia why this strategic project was not discussed with citizens, it was coming out to citizens, it was explaining what it was, but let's go to an emergency procedure, public debate for 15 days, we satisfied the form, let's quickly bring up lex LNG, and then we'll see if it's been written in 6 months or a year by another group called Borg or Borg 1 or Borg 2, and we'll watch whose boat it is, and then one day we'll explain why it's not 10 years but it's 99 years, so we'll look at what that effect is on the ocean, so we'll see how much it costs the taxpayers of the Republic. In this assembly, rulings have a custom not to listen, have a custom not to listen and those things that are technical and explain to us why something cannot, but why they will be able to do so when they suggest and go all the way. Because of this country, because of those citizens who listen to us, there is therefore part of the Assembly itself, from the right and from the left and from the centre and we will all agree that there are really strategic projects in the Republic, that there is a strategic interest and that there are projects behind which we need to stand. But don't break over your knee, don't go by force, don't open Pandora's box. I'm curious about when someone else's ship, when the ownership structure will change very quickly because the same government can say, here's somebody else's coming into HEP or Plinacro's getting into Plinacro, a part of the stock sold or the LNG capitalized, and then we'll see someone who's actually the real owner of it. Managing the country and making decisions is not easy. Managing in the ultimate line of the building where you live is not easy, you have conflicted interests, one that can reasonably explain these conflicted interests, it is reasonable to define the one who manages well. We break this law over our knees, this law in terms of environmental protection is very questionable, this law in economic terms is very questionable and the key question is why are you doing it. Don't do it like that. Why LNG on land can't go in phases, so where we know the unequivocal property is phase one. Why are you doing this? Or better question, who are you working for? According to this opening, the first time is the hardest. The second time is easier or the third time. This is the opening of Pandora's box. If I had the investor that we refused, who had ideas in Dubrovnik, in Korčula, on Mljet, installed the ship, put the ship in a port where it could be placed on it to provide hospitality and tourist activity, I would have followed with great care when this law was passed and said here I am. There's not a single defense mechanism. We from this pay phone if you're an opposition, we can only point out, we can tell you what's not good, we can have a loud appeal, my people, do it right. If you do it right, you'll get support. Equally, all processes are being taught, democracy is being poured in, public talk is being taught, going to a county where in power is another option than you were learning, but you should leave, it's all learning. Someone learns faster, someone learns slower, someone learns and never learns. Don't repeat the mistakes we've already seen. And what's worse for you in your life, when you make a mistake so someone says, "I told you so," but this is "I told you so" in relation to this law, it will be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83954	Thank you, colleague Anki Dark-Taritash. Before the next debate, we will welcome on my right, on your left, students and students and high school teachers from the parish, I wish you a good day. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. [[Applause.]] Next in line is on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83955	Thank you, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. As we know, today, on our table, the proposal for a Law on the Cultivated Gas Terminal or popularly called lex LNG. I must say, I've already held three breaks about LNG or LNG from this place. In the first stop I was talking about what was happening in general, I was talking about that it was an economic, ecological, technological and technical disaster, I was talking about the will of local self-government being trampled, the will of regional self-government being trampled, that everything was the opposite of spatial plans and the number of other things. I also said there's simply no economic interest here. And that's the first and main element of logic against which no one in this current economic system can, there's just no money. There's no money, and that project isn't going anywhere. So the question is, if it's obvious that it's going to work with a minus, why are we going to a job like that? Well, the answer is actually very simple. Because this isn't an economic project. It's not as important here that neither gas nor technology, there's not been enough debate on environmental protection. This is a political project and politics has determined that this project must be done. It's the only logic in this project. There's no other logic. I must say at first that the Living Wall will not support this law nor will it support a floating LNG project or if you want an UPP terminal in Omislim. In my second stop, I read the letter by Commissioner Omišče Ms Ahmetovic, who, if I am not mistaken and present here, who sent it to all of us, simply explains that the government's claims to communicate with the local self-government unit were not correct, that only 2 were almost random and very short encounters with Mr. Minister Cocoric, in which instead of trying to get to some colossal conversation he actually tried to bribe and cover up the opposition in the project in Omislje, which certainly contributes to violence against the local population. And in my third stop, I was talking about this here. This is already mentioned today, this is a study called the macroeconomic effects of the natural gas ingested terminal on the island of Krk from 2016. The results of this are not liked by anyone, so a new study was commissioned in 2017 that says everything the opposite. This study, and more experts have confirmed to me that it is very well done and that it corresponds to the truth, that it is an advantage to the mainland LNG terminal in everything. Since domestic companies will have more work to do, there will be more jobs than floating, than there is already documentation that lower costs and everything else is going on. However, this document was very difficult to reach. We heard today during the debate that locals, or their representatives, are very hard to get any information, for everyone to fight and dig with their hands and feet, is that transparency? Is that a democratic procedure? Of course not. Everything tried to make it under the grain, secretly, and that's what he's saying, and that's what the emergency procedure is about, you watch it, the emergency procedure, and for the discussion the public's been left for 14 days. For one important thing like this. It's simply inadmissible and that's all it takes to vote against this and this law. With everything else I'm going to count. If you've read the law, I believe it is, you could have found in many places one two concepts, let's say I counted them nine times. So that's how we've had on the page since the very first page, diversification, security. So then under two rows of security diversification, and again at the bottom of the first page diversification and then security and then once again one nine times in pairs of diversification and security. So these are the only ones on this poor of 3 sides, actually two and one more paragraph on the third, why should we go in for security and diversification. It doesn't have to mean anything in itself, we had cases when we didn't get gas from Russia at all, when we went through Italy, everything worked. Why? Because it's our advantage because we're small. That one billion cubic meters or a little bit more so compare it to the industrial countries around us, especially Italy, which belongs to g7, is a huge industrial force, as much as they spend, as much as we do. So in the event of a break in supply, it is not a problem to get that one billion cubic metres, the speakers said in the end. And it's sad that the ministry hasn't written anywhere and there's no estimate that's the case or that's not the case. I was asking the question then what are we going to do with all this gas? Then the numbers were six, seven, eight billion cubic meters per year. The 2.6 billion cubic metres, which remains one of Croatia's entire annual consumption, or somewhere in the order of the size of that number, has already been crystallized through some kind of public debate. There's still a question as to what we're going to do with that gas. We don't have a place to spend it, we obviously don't plan to develop it because we don't have a strategy, we have nowhere to store it, we have a couple of very small warehouses, and we don't have a place to sell it because it's going to be more expensive. I also warned that Klaipeda would happen to us. Lithuania's port built as a floating, floating LNG terminal that works with the loss and dreams of the state to export to the Finns, to export to the Poles, perhaps even to the Helenjingrad region itself that would be the leader there in the gas sales fell into the water, simply that gas nobody wants. The dreams of our government are similar. Who are you going to sell the more expensive gas to? Where are you going to take that gas you bring to the point in the Omistry anyway? Well, the gas pipeline, according to the Gasacre plans I've been reading, won't until 2023 or which, at all, you don't have anywhere to take him until then, except to build some kind of power plant that's a story to yourself. It is also very sad to say that 15.11. when it was a public debate Mr. Francic... He did not know how to explain the answers to some of the simplest questions of the citizens, and this is all about the preparation of this project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's been a failure of this study, I repeat again. I would also remind you of the longest conversation in my career, at least President Grabar Kitarovic with Mr Putin, president of the Russian Federation, after that meeting a letter was made in which the Russian Federation offers some kind of gas offer to Croatia. I have sent an inquiry to deliver what it is, just so we know, I have not yet received an answer, but some of the edges of some media have been published, almost not mentioned in public, what is in this letter and what does the Russian Federation offer us? Why isn't there a public debate about it? And we know about what he offers us because information could be found, there was total gasification of Croatia and there was actually security of supply routes from the east. I'm not an American, nor a Russofil, let's look at purely economic logic, why buy more expensive? So let America offer us cheaper gas, we'll buy from them. If we were looking at a bigger picture these days, what could we see? An agreement is being concluded, i.e. the construction of the northern flow of 2 between Russia and Germany, the Germans want to continue to buy cheap Russian gas because they need it for their huge industry. What's the American lobby doing? What's Mr. Mike doing... What's Mr Trump doing? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're actually blackmailing and threatening Germany and even all of Europe, no, don't buy that gas, buy more expensive American. It can literally be read from communication in recent weeks. Buy more expensive American, why? And that's because it's security and diversification. Well, well, Mr Trump, obviously this terminal will work with a loss, so I invite you, you're a billionaire, you pay every year to the people of Omis and all of Croatia this loss that LNG terminal will work with. Will you? Of course you won't. You will get your companies jobs, you will benefit from these jobs, you will benefit from neighbouring countries that will have a slightly better negotiating position, you will benefit from Hungarians who open up the opportunity that ours, or not ours, is INA-in, which means that MOL, the gas produced in Croatia, is a wolf for Hungary, and we will have to buy this gas expensive that will come to LNG terminals. They will also celebrate Brussels because it is like a European strategic thing, they will celebrate Plenkovic because he has withdrawn money from funds, and who will mourn and weep? Croatian citizens who will have to pay more expensive bills for both electricity and gas via the HEP system. Let's look at economic logic. 17.1., then 16.2., then 9.4., so three were the deadline for the interested parties to report to the LNG terminal to purchase capacity. Just called the INA. So about 4%, 100 million cubic meters is leased. Where are the Ukrainians whose interest it is, where are the Hungarians who are interested in LNG and that LNG gas? Where are the Slovenians? They're gone. Because there's obviously no money, there's no money. It's a waste. If it wasn't for that, we'd be in a hurry. Twice they extended the deadline in the hope that someone would come forward after all. No, total fiasco. Does he not say all these things? And despite all that the market said no and what the people said no and what the laws said no and what the eco associations said no, you still push and still push this project. Otherwise, there are over 200 billion cubic metres of LNG capacity in Europe. In 2017, only 47 billion were used, so neither was it used. It should also be said that I hope that it will not happen that you will force HEP to lease capacity, so that HEP is deliberately working there with a loss because it would really be scandalous. Admit the project isn't good, and don't beat us with all these losses. Article 12 is simply scandalous. That's where the mechanism is predicted, here in these six items, that if the operator is going to work out of what he's going to do, if he's going to work with a minus that PLINACRO by order of HERA, according to HERA's decision will charge money from someone and that he's going to patch up that hole. So I asked Mr. Secretary on the Legislative Committee, who's it going to be charged from? He said those who transport gas. So I asked yesterday on the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Constitution, future Minister Dark Horvat, from whom will it be charged? They said, and always the end consumers. So make a deal, will those who transport, or will they be the final consumers? I still think there will be final consumers. If I can, why don't we switch to the end consumer, and I can. There's no such thing as an obstacle to that happening. Also, the Atlantic Council that I have already mentioned, which deals with energy considerations, has published the same document, an analysis. They're also saying there's no receipts, that it's just one thing here is that we have an option, if we accidentally close the Russian roads. This is also an example of service. This project is primarily done to please Washington and Brussels and that some individuals would one day return there have a better starting position. Also, according to the latest information ship... Spirit of '981. in the year, so 37 years old will dock before Omisaljska Luka, another old iron for Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't even have to say that this decision is contrary to the '97 order to sail the territorial seas and internal waters of the Republic of Croatia. It was supposed to be a new one, but it wasn't, so it's worth this one. So it simply cannot be used by older ships than 25 years of age, so let them comply with that Law. Stories about some jobs on the floating terminal also do not stand. Ask the local community if that's right. The mainland is something else, because the crew that will operate normally will be foreign, there will probably be Croats in it because we have our people experts everywhere, but it will be under an foreign company. Concession fees are too small. What's still scandalous. I would even call this law one GMO law he overrides at least 7 laws counted in art. 2. It overrides the Law on Maritime Goods, concessions, the gas market, extradition, navigation, nature protection, spatial planning, etc. We have all these laws that do something, but we're not going to cut them all out, cross them over and create some kind of Frankenstein to be here as one other state where it's going to be worth it all somehow different. In addition, we also have a precedent here in trade relations because this law excludes competition in the open sea and in the port that should actually be open to everyone. I already mentioned that renting an old ship in collegiate with this order. We can also talk about cohesion with the concession law. So what's the conclusion? The conclusion is what is imposed all day, a political project that will profit all but the people of this country, just not the economy of this country, but who knows which foreign interests are made via the ocean which in our neighbourhood, and the final price will be paid by Croatian citizens through the price of oil, through the price of gas and through the price of electricity and everything is even seen in art. 12. where you built the mechanism to make them... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83956	Thank you, colleagues. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. Next in front of the SDSS representative club, counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83957	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the ministry. In front of us is a very important Law that has been given its name to the public. I think we should separate this debate from politics and cheerleading, some of the fans of the debate rather than the really cold heads to try to judge rationally what is best for the Republic at this point, and also for the local population, or local self-government. The government of the Republic of Croatia, I think, has declared not once this project of a natural gas terminal a strategic energy project. I think that and therefore, and therefore the European Commission accepted them and it has actually not since yesterday. It's already been a few governments pushing the project. They were talking about the terminal, they were going to go into realisation because it's really a big project, it's a big value and it's a project, we all agree on strategic importance. This is why it is not good to prepare the project and implement it to make mistakes in steps. Here's this debate and all that's going on right now around this bill, a little bit of a reminder of TE Plomin C just because unlike this project, it was talking about gas there as a desirable energy, unlike the government pushing the coal project, and local self-government insisted on doing TE with gas fuel. What's certainly wrong with this thing is the opposition of local self-government to try to find a common language because it's bad when something important is for the state and local self-government is opposed. It's not the only thing now, so we have a number of projects where local self-government is opposed, but the state has to show effort and effort and put it into the reasoning of the law that she tried to explain, that she tried to keep the stands, meetings with local self-government, so try to show effort and interest that she wants to find a common language with local self-government. This bill should indeed be a quality legal framework for the implementation of such an important project, especially when we consider that the project and its realization have not been since yesterday. So we'd have to go back to history and see which government first triggered the idea of a gas terminal. I also have to point out that when we have opposition from the local community as a lawyer who I was working on in state law, then I think that lawmaking must have been better quality, and the explanation had to be more extensive with all the necessary explanations, especially to make it visible and the reason why we are going into emergency procedure. It should have been visible and clear how many countries have already invested in the project, which we have given arguments as to why we include the project or why we have declared it strategic, on the basis of which the European Commission has accepted our arguments to be a strategic project. It's all kind of taken only understandablely, but I think it should have been visible in the explanation and introduction of the text of the final proposal of this law. It doesn't matter at all that the law is short and there are only 14 articles, I find it much more important to explain, and the explanation is unfortunately quite thin, there are some thirteen simple sentences, and I think that the applicant should have put a lot more effort into just having a good and quality debate here for all of these elements that I've talked about before. Because the fact is that by this law which is actually a lex specialis who is trying to put this project in some fast lane so that it can be realized, that some deadlines will be respected, we will also deviate from the Law on concessions and from the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports and from the Maritime Code and from the Law on Privilege. And that's okay, it's not at all controversial to me, I don't even question that the project is a strategic one, but all this really requires really detailed explanations for every single provision so that we can clearly see why we're doing it. I don't think it should have been a questionable or excessive effort for the proposer. Even considering that part of the assembly here strongly opposed this project or proposed law. I think with a good explanation of why the project has been strategic since it was strategic and why it takes this very law in the emergency procedure to maybe accept that part of the assembly and maybe part of the local self-government. So I wanted to primarily warn about the preparation and the reasoning of the law, and now you'd say something about the very elements of the law, I'd like to warn you about maybe two things. Thus, in the text of the proposal, the legislator stated that one of the main objectives that it seeks to achieve this law was to issue a concession on the maritime good for the realisation of this particular law. So the legal regime of maritime goods is regulated by the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, which contains provisions that regulate concessions on maritime good and seaports, which is one lex specialis and we have a roof law, the Law lex generalis of the Law on concessions that regulates this matter differently, therefore have certain disagreements. This law contains, in its provisions, one provision calls for the application of these two laws which are currently non-compliant with each other and now precisely because of the quality of the reasoning when we are already bringing new lex specialis should be more clear on what will be applied here, and this is how we may leave space for some interpretation in practice and possibly possibly disputes that are applicable, which the provisions will apply. Because laws that have different solutions, and we call on them to create legal uncertainty, and I say that could have been avoided with a clearer and more complete explanation. The second thing I find important, which is this law foresees is the practical award of a concession by a law on a specific investor, without implementing a procedure based on the principles of the Law on concessions which has taken over a very large number of EU directives. There are more moments and I'll try to say something about one, and that's the level of concession fee. According to the Competition Act, where the grantor wishes to give something in the concession, he takes into account that he would determine the concession fee or the amount that is actually the subject of the concession, the estimated value of the concession, the duration, the risks and costs that the concessionary expects or assumes, which is the extent of the concession, the equipment and value of the assets given the equipment and the area of the general public or any other good of interest to the Republic of Croatia which is the subject of the concession. So we have a lot of elements that are taken into account, and that's why we're doing that, and then we study the justification of giving a concession. We therefore have prescribed this law, or we propose to prescribe a formula according to which we will calculate the concession to be paid. I don't even keep it questionable. If we had a clear explanation on the basis of which parameters we came to this formula, which would make it much easier for us to have insight into what would happen afterwards, which will actually be the level of concession fee. I don't doubt the good intentions of the promoter, but what if tomorrow shows, for example, that the level of the concession fee is too low? Are we gonna change the law? What if we are going to change the law, are we actually going to be able to unilaterally change the level of concession fee, is the one that is actually the concessionary going to accept it, are we going to cause litigation, is that going to be applied retroactively or just pro futuro? There are certain questions opening up, which I say, with a quality of good explanation and an explanation we could, perhaps still, avoid. There's still a lot of questions that I think are important, and I'm not going to talk about them anymore, so I'm just going to point out one last thing. That it may not be clear enough, so if we go now to this first phase of project realization by floating terminal, what category of maritime facility will it be? So because it's very important that the regulations of the sea will then be applied because it has a lot of legal consequences, so I've been trying, I'm not an expert on maritime law, but I'm saying, with one quality explanation, it could have been the same thing more clearly, not to be left with interpretation of practice or I don't know that it's a doubt that someone's being affected, because I'm saying, it's all leading to someone's story. I'm trying to trust the motionor and I don't think it suits anyone, but I'm saying just because there's a lack of this kind of reasoning that can open up these questions. For this reason, it is precisely because of the lack of these quality reasons that I must express some caution to such solutions, which I say could have been avoided with quality arguments. I will repeat once again, this is not a project of this government, this is a project of a number of governments declared strategic interest, so back in a few years, but I think we may have failed to take some steps in law-making, to strengthen explanations and explanations, and in particular, to communicate in a better way with local self-government, and then we would not be able to come into a situation where both the government and the promoters are eligible and to hide some small particular interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83958	Thank you, fellow Milosevic. The next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is counterpart Horvat Darko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83959	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected guests from the Primorje-Gorski County today present at this debate. Of some of these debates today, those who listen to us, I'm sure they're running tears. From a very simple explanation, this debate today is proof that there is no substitute for the entrepreneurial climate in Croatia as those who are willing to invest in Croatia want. But listening to today's debate, and I'm going to follow the time and look back at the law for a while, I have to admit that I'm very, very, very surprised who's getting into whatever conclusions this phone booth has. I am not going to deal with the conclusions of the profession because again fair and correct I will admit that on some things I do not have enough technical or technological knowledge to be a "professor" on this subject, but what is a fact, listening to a bunch of professors on this subject today, we have to admit that I at that university where they would teach would certainly not want to go. So I would like to ask questions from this pay phone instead of some of my thoughts. So I would like to ask myself, and here are my colleagues, who I see today after their exposure there are no more, so which investments in the Republic of Croatia and what kind of investment in the Republic of Croatia should be without any environmental impact? You know who can talk about it? Those who did not participate in any investment and those who did not prepare any investment. Or those who are really in favour of Croatia need one lex specialis to ban all investments in the Republic of Croatia and then there would be applause and then, I'm sure, there would be a lot of joy. However, while the HDZ and HDZ Representatives Club will not pass such a law, as much as it pleases someone, because I am and I am sure that any investment that will come into the territory of the Republic of Croatia will have a certain impact on the environment. And I will repeat the 77th time from this pay phone that only in Croatia can environmental impact studies stop the project. I have spoken intensively in the last month and with colleagues who are in the economy and come as investors from Austria, Germany, and other neighbouring countries, and I have counted the specificities that investors find when they come or want to invest in the space of the Republic of Croatia. But to make it interesting, this isn't even an investment by a foreign investor, so don't try to scare him so much and drive him away from Croatia. This should be an investment of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia to begin designing this law and the investor should be a domestic investor. So, no matter how hard we try to drive him away, you can't drive Plinacro or HEP or the home company LNG out of Croatia. And it would be nice to finally start thinking. If this is a project of the strategic interest of the government of the Republic of Croatia and imagine now, again, I must agree and regret that there are no colleagues of Maras there because he would point out that story, the SDP Government led by Zoran Milanovic launched a procedure for including this project on the list of strategic projects for the Republic of Croatia. You may have forgotten the story that some things are starting to happen intensely either in 2012 or 2013, you may have forgotten that some things started to happen intensively in 2016, 2017, and are now being intensified because this law did not float on paper, this is a desire to create this project. And again, I'm going to do something I've talked about a thousand times. Politics says this project needs the Republic of Croatia. But don't get involved like politics in how it's supposed to be done. Let the profession speak about it and it will be easier for us, and for those who know how to do it, and for those of us who want this project as a policy at this point. On the other hand, any investment, any business venture that moves, has been condemned in the first years of business to minus or to costs that may exceed revenue. That's what this project needs to be prepared for. ... And when in one great ignorance, someone asks a question from this pay phone whether in the end this minus that will happen alone, in the first or second year of business, will cover the transport or end-users, and the same one who asks himself and us such questions, does not know what the price of the consumer's final product is, then I would not like to discuss it with such people at all. [[Pernar, you don't understand.]] [[Mr. Pernar, please, okay?]] If the transporter will cover the cost of a cubic meter of gas or equivalent to its energy value, the kilowatt hour of energy, that transport is also contained. And finally, always that final price is paid by the consumer. But in this whole story, we are not talking about whether the market of the Republic of Croatia or the market of our environment will accept this product from day one, because it is again entrepreneurial logic when it comes to a business venture, whether it is an environment in which you perform so securely so that your investment is guaranteed and you are sure that from the first moment you place your product on the market, you are ensuring its full price regardless of whether your product recognises or wants it at the moment. What is the fact, through the tariff system, the regulator must know the market at a competitive price to bring the product closer to the product but it is not a matter that we will build this project only and exclusively for the needs of the Republic of Croatia. This project is not even a regional project, this is a project where participation is taken by the European Commission. This is a project on a common list of projects to be co-financed by the European Commission. This is a project for which the European Commission has already provided and provided money for the second time. And now I'm sure, colleagues who follow energy, watching this debate of ours, they're asking themselves one key question from which it's all moving. Okay, the ultimate goal of this project's development is a land terminal that, at some point, depending on the needs of the market, will be able to regas 4 or 6 billion cubic metres of gas. Okay, what would happen to the system if we built a project like this in two years? Our transport system at this time, these 4 and 6 billion cubic metres of gas that should be used by consumers, cannot be absorbed either in transit or in supply to the consumer, technically cannot respond to such requirements. So technically, this project has two phases. But it also has a phase of migration. A phase that at some point when the ship we're all here sure is the cheapest, simplest solution will be converted into a situation and buy time to build a terminal on land. What's he gonna be like after all? Those modular performances that can be multiplied by certain factors, depending on what plants and technology will be used? The questions are for our future. And when someone tells me here that Croatian energy will look 2050, I have to admit, not that I'm a little, but I'm very afraid, because by quoting Nikola Tesla, in the last five years, in this technological development, it happened more than in those five years, so I'm not going to say until the age of 7. And now to be a visionary, in such technological development, specifically, targeted and numbered, predicts 2050, every honour to anyone who dares to engage in such an ambition, but I will not bring such speculation to this speaker. Another interesting thing, colleague Mrak Tariatash, recently says 25 years ago we've been talking and talking about the terminal, and someone after that says, everything happens in secret and everything happens under the grain. 15 studies, 15 audits of these same studies, but it all happened under the grain. No one has a clue, only in the towers, for coffee, is talking about LNG. What I have been able to find and read in the last few days, I will dare and quote. In a renovated Croatian press, it doesn't matter which one thought is spoken, which, I would dare say, will be acceptable, I'm sure for the great majority of us, here today who are in this House and we are part of politics, and says, like this, quote. Some of the projects mentioned may have been speculative, but there is no logic, that every plan in this country and every project represents a potential ecological ecosystem. But it's not the public's fault, which is skillfully and happily manipulated, but politics, which lacks visions and knowledge. It is the main and biggest environmental problem in the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, without much criticism, to the law, which in 14 articles clearly states and what and how. Unlike some other laws, which we may even have opportunities to present here today, and they have 300 articles, I am sure, that this law, and a clear vision of this law, should not be explained in 300 articles, I am sure that enough of these 14 articles are enough to get the story started, and if there is unhappiness or awkwardness in the passage of this law, this law can be corrected. But none of these changes and additions should go in the direction of stopping the project. For this reason, respected ministers, the HDZ Club will give full support to the construction of LNG terminals and support your legal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83960	Thank you, fellow Horvatu, for the next debate of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83961	I would like to thank the Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State, the Assistant Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, the law has heard a lot of everything here, however, this law by its nature is a very specific and lex specialist, i.e., i think it is absolutely unequivocally clear, with a specific goal, which is stated in the far line, with a specific, let's say, benefites, which should be derived from this law. This law allows for what we all swear all the time. Especially an opposition that always has a task and a job to question and draw attention to certain things, so how many times we hear Croatia has fallen on a scale of due business, i.e., places, last year we are 51... 90, why? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What are the criteria for such a thing? Well, aren't some criteria exactly the possibility of investing in this country? And now that we are dealing with this issue of concessions for a specific purpose, investments, which are financed, co-financed and grants from the European Fund, which they say. We've heard all kinds of questions here, which is what it's all about, that the government can sell something. So, based on these means, you're not allowed to, and it's in your article. 6. last item, must not be estranged in 10 years, so, not another LNG Croatia, owned by... HEP, Croatian companies, remains for a minimum of 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When it comes to the question of cost-effectiveness, we have two conflicting things. We hear how invaluable it is, how these capacities won't be filled, so what does that mean? That the impact on the environment that is this acceptable will not be, because there will be no ships, there will be no cooling and heating, or there will be no influence, or there will be. We can't argue with each other, we can't dispute this law and say that, you're throwing away money for something that's unnecessary, and on the other hand, the same thing, if it's not used, it's going to hurt the environment. Well, if it's not used, it won't. Not to say that there, every day we get tankers with crude oil, etc. etc. where the largest insurance measures have been taken. You have in the bay at JANAF's air curtain terminal, which is in case, God forbid some hararium, pumping at sea at a meter and a half, so that there can't be a spill further. So it's absolutely necessary to protect and do everything for environmental protection, it's an obligation for all of us, but we also have an obligation to provide our citizens with cheap energy and security supplies. We know how to get gas in Europe and from where, today it's all right. I won't talk about prices in the markets, but let something happen, let them go to heaven. How are we going to justify to our citizens that even now the expensive energy they may be paying, subsidized, will have to be paid I don't know how much? Then who's gonna take that responsibility? Or, God forbid. And to drain all the underground supplies. So what do we do? That's why it's important to have and that's why diversification is mentioned here, multiple sources. Of course we all want cheap electricity, but we don't want a trafo station near us, so that makes sense. We all want to have available energy, but we don't want a thermal power plant near us, we don't want to see anything, let it be somewhere else, I understand that, so it's human. And we here have to think about the interests of all the citizens and what the appeal is and here to respect everyone and the minister and the ministry, to respect all the solutions absolutely, which I don't see, my fellow Dobrović from MOST has presented some solutions that seem to me at first sight and understandable, just don't see where in this law to decide, in what way there will be technology, here we're talking about concession, the concession fee where the state and disowns thirds, so two-thirds go into municipalities and cities, one-third goes to County compensation for that, with that money will be able to invest in the improvement of exactly those citizens who there, let's say the most suffering in the way that already is, building a floating terminal. My colleagues say he can land, he can't float. We did go a few years ago with the idea of land, here it is foreseen in two stages to go one floating and then land that would have just made a megalomantic investment for the capacity of 5 billion cubic metres of gas on a pipeline that could be implemented 2 and a half times. And there may be too much investment and injustice and some higher costs. But what's important, I understand absolutely every citizen who doesn't want to look at a boat in some bay... Although I'm saying, today you can see ships already every day and it's accepted. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have tens of miles away or 50 kilometers away down the platform, not to draw gas that is the most environmentally acceptable thing going on here, but to extract oil in the middle of the Adriatic with technology from 30, 40 years ago and there's nothing we can do about it. I'd like to get that in order and be by the highest standards to do everything. That's what I'm saying that the ministry should see in implementation, in the project itself, I don't see here in the law anywhere to talk about cooling technology, about evaporators and everything else... But if there's anything you can do, that's for sure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I don't think anyone's against making maximum standards for environmental protection and everything that's going on. But we need to think about all citizens, we need to think about the future, we need to think about where we're going to be in 5, 10 years. This puts Croatia on Europe's energy map as an important player, crucial. I would be most fortunate to have the price of other transport supplies so low that this may not be so used at all, is it going to mean to our citizens cheap energy, our economy, agriculture if you want, but we can't stay blind and say how it's going to be forever now because we know what's going on and then someone's going to ask us what, where you've been thinking and what kind of policy it was, you've just been buying votes, giving, and you haven't thought about the future, and that's where we have to make the difference. Last year, we heard Grant Malta was obtained not in the nice eyes of what is said and so it's important that this goes into emergency procedure, to use all the means possible, to reduce the cost wherever we can and to maximise efficiency and cost-effectiveness. In conclusion, is it here that we see that this project is used and for daily political purposes, I would like to remind myself that it is a project and it is a colleague Horvat and said, it is not a project since yesterday, it's not a project that works better, it's something that's been talking about, it's been talking about for the last 15 years, which has been initiated, the decisions made, the last five years, that some of them have supported it, others have changed it, so let's not say we're not going to tell him, let's go off the Shore now, our colleagues from the Most, and now they've got some amendments, and they are for that project, and they can say that they're here at least consistent, at least so we'll see how it goes to vote, that they won't take advantage of that kind of pulismism and court people. We were together in the government when it was declared a strategic project, and I think we should concentrate on it, but it is our obligation to both the ministry and all of us to detail, every possible measure of environmental protection, the best, most modern implementation, regardless of the cost and make, and that is our obligation to the local population, and we must not lose it from our minds, but we must not lose the future of this country in the energy sector because you see how the oil prices have been in the last 3.4 years and almost 5 very cheap, cheap energy, at least cheap oil, now they go to heaven, tomorrow it may be gas, so we must have different opportunities in the supply of energy, precisely for the protection of our citizens, our businesses, and this is a responsible policy. And in doing so, we don't need anyone or to bring someone in as little as possible to be damaged in any way. I believe that the local community will also financially of this, not to believe, but will surely profit, and also, no threat to the protection of the environment must occur to a more significant extent which would cause something, and that is our obligation to do so. Not because we're smart and super-good, but because that's the standard, everywhere else we work. In Paris, you have, I don't know, dozens or ten nuclear power plants in the city itself. That's the problem with me. I don't know how to do that, but that's how people choose themselves. So there are much bigger questions than building floating terminals, if we look at them from around the world, but we have to try here, to keep in mind what the main goal is, the security of our citizens' supply, cheap energy, dissertation, and not to depend on others and to stand somewhere last in line and what God gives us. Enough of that kind of policy and position. And that's where we have to change, and that's one of the projects, and we have a law that will come after this, where that's exactly how it works. Therefore, in conclusion, the HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83962	I thank my colleagues Curaju and the last debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives is the debate of my colleague, Željka Lenart, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83963	I thank the esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's another law of service policy, today's government. By doing so, we discussed yesterday on the Committee on Environmental Protection on this subject and it is said that LNG is interested in the northern countries, that they find it interesting. And since we know that Croatia has quite the production of gas, that we have far cheaper gas coming from Russia, I believe that what my colleague Horvat said, that the EU, for the second time already gives money for these things, I think that the EU, always gives not money that is in Croatia's interest, but always gives money for what is in their interest. And I think that we need to talk about Croatia's interest, not what the EU is interested in. LNG terminal and LNG gas are not cheaper than it is more expensive and will raise the price of gas if we have to use it in Croatia. As far as this law is concerned, says colleague Horvat, don't get involved, let the waist do it. Well, she was doing waist and lex Agrokor, so we saw, what she did, how we ended up with lex Agrokora, how much money was in play and that waist made a good story for itself. I no longer believe, unfortunately, in no story in the work of the profession, hired by the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is always the head of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For the price of gas, I think the bigger problem is that we chased a Russian diplomat, which can raise the price of gas for us, than what we're going to make this terminal, which is quite, very, very burdensome, i.e. will burden the Kvarner Bay. Recently on television, we were able to watch what was happening in Italy, on their floating LNG terminal, where it was simply not allowed to get closer, see how it worked, why this foam was created, and why there was an ecological problem related to the LNG terminal. That's probably how it's gonna be around here. We use various floscules, first it is security of supply to the gas of Croatia, which is not questionable in any scenario. Croatia already has alternative supply routes and stress tests carried out by the European Commission for the gas system, that it is in 2 scenarios, in no mention of Croatia, as built on gas. Building a floating terminal, there's a lot of problems that they're connected to, according to the latest gases, they're talking about a used ship, up to 30 years old, because obviously this 30-year-old is very interesting to us, so we bought planes over 30 years old, and then we'll buy a boat older, but well, that ship doesn't fly at least, so it won't fall, and only if it doesn't sink. When the liquid LNG is infused at minus 160 degrees Celsius is heated in the gas, using the sea temperature. So through one system, which is located in water, through which the temperature changes, which has come, and in order for that system to work, it is necessary to clean the pipes for which chlorine is used. This cooling will also affect the sea temperature in the Kvarner Bay, the Kvarner Bay is and so burdened with an oil terminal, and we know very well that in the Kvarner Gulf the development of tourism is very important, tourism income is also very important for local self-government units, but also for the Republic of Croatia. Not to say that there is Opatija, which is also a cradle of tourism in Croatia, and also other destinations, which will happen after the construction of this terminal, which is likely to happen, because every law proposed by the government, most of them accept it regardless of what we say, will also happen with this and I think that instead of going to what we have 365 days of tourism in the year, which is what the Ministry of Tourism is doing and this is going to do, we are creating potential environmental problems that tourists will cause from Croatia from this period that they are coming to. The concession proposal is 99 years old. Interestingly, the concession fee is given directly. However, the company in the company owned by HEP and Plinar, but given how it all goes in Croatia, both HEP and Plinacro will be privatised, the question of who will come into possession of such a concession that is said here, some 2 kn per metre of surface, which turns out to be about 300,400,000 kn per year. I think it's too little use for local self-government units, and that's exactly what's important, that units of local self-government are against this project. So I'm wondering if the government of the Republic of Croatia listens to its citizens on the ground who will be in direct contact with it or conduct their policies, they don't care about the citizens who will be in the area? It was interesting yesterday as well on the Committee on Environmental Protection, counterpart Bačić said that he was once against Adria's company but today he is here to build a floating LNG terminal. So come on, and I doubt the profession that this is a political decision as well as everyone else that's going on. The location of the terminal was provided on the land on which Dina Omisalj is located, an industrial pair of 180 ha sized factories of polyethylene and vinyl chloride, which, unfortunately, is in bankruptcy and which was recently one of the largest exporters in the Republic of Croatia. Their exports are comparable to the total traffic of LNG terminals. The construction of this floating terminal will cut off any access to raw materials to that industrial park and revitalisation of that space is simply disabled. I'm only interested in whether the government will ultimately listen to the units of local self-government, whether to listen to Croatian people, whether to think about the ecological aspect of the Republic of Croatia which is our comparative advantage over some other countries that have destroyed their ecology and whether to think that Croatian tourism will bring far more profits and profits than this LNG terminal and it is said that it will not be profitable for a long time, that with LNG they are particularly interested in Hungary and countries in the area and that even certain excise duties that occur throughout that process will be brought down to all consumers so that Croatian consumers will pay excise fees, i.e. part of the price of gas to be used by Hungarians, Serbia or some northern country. Did we once again set up a Borg group that has once again designed a project that will take a few hundred million kunas or no matter how much and it will simply cause damage to the Republic of Croatia and we know that today no one believes in this system which is unfortunately saddening and that we have to say here as representatives, that no one else believes in the functioning of this government and the way it works and that simply our young people leave the Republic no longer with the belly after bread because they've long gone, but people who just don't want to see the way this country works anymore, the way this country is falling apart, the way this country's wealth of this country is being destroyed. Your HDZ colleagues, have a good feel for them, and then make a move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83964	Thank you. Let us also welcome to the gallery of the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb on my part, on your left, welcome, good afternoon to you. Before we move to an individual debate, we have an intervention on behalf of the promoter, Mr Tomislav Ćoric, Minister of Environmental and Energy Protection, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83965	Good afternoon, all of you, the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, above all a good day. I hope this replica does not go to my arrival in the Croatian Parliament, I hope it is not about that. So first of all let me explain my absence at 9:30 this morning, second item of the agenda at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were amendments and additions of two laws from the energy field, and after I put them out or proposed them to the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I came here before this Reverend Parliament. So, listening to all the debates that followed, after this discussion of clubs, a whole series of these discussions, I would first of all refer to the strategic issue, i.e. the issue of the strategic importance of the LNG terminal on the island of Krk for Croatia. So as part of the EU, as you know, the Republic of Croatia is part of the common energy market and, in this context, security of supply or diversification of supply routes as one of the basic foundations of the development of the energy union requires that we also consider the security of our supply. I'll remind you of one moment from the 12th month last year, so 12th 12th, there was an explosion... Garten, I think some have referred to this very strong and serious hub. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On that day, the Republic of Italy declared a state of emergency. Why? Because they couldn't secure the security of supplies. On that day, gas prices on the Italian market increased by about 4 times. When we talk about security of supply, we're talking about these very aspects. I will return to the very moment of the Law, his environmental, above all, but also the economic aspect. But also communication. So let the more powerful communication by the Ministry not have been able to go before, above all, the expert commissions dealing with the environmental moments of this Law do not do their job. And in this context, I apologize primarily to the inhabitants of Omis, or the Primorje-Gorski County for not communicating more intensively the objective facts that follow LNG and its construction. Since in public, unfortunately in the last few months there have been very many subjects. Communication with local authorities representatives. Lucky for me, for the first time, I met the mayor of Omisalj municipality on 26.7 in Croatian waters. After that, we held a meeting on 23.8th at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. After that, we met in Omisalj municipality on 23.10. I'm saying this for what Mr. Jovanovic said. Afterwards, we met in Omisalj municipality on 7.11. Communications with County. On 23.10 in the municipality of Omisalj was the representative of Mr. Komadina's deputy mayor. 7.12, 12.12, I apologize, at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, I was visited by the Mayor of Komadin and discussed the LNG problem among other things. So, in the context of communication with the local community, or with representatives of the county throughout the whole series of situations, we have tried to clarify our position on the strategic importance of this project. Speaking of other moments. In a public debate, this Law 55 made observations. Of these 55 remarks, we adopted a total of 3.7 of them in part. So we absolutely respected what the public told us. Who owns LNG? Croatia. At the moment PLINACRO and Croatian electricity industry. That's how it's gonna be. Who brings economic gain from the realization of this project? It is the companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, so the Republic of Croatia indirectly. Who's wearing them? They're also carried by people who will be employed by LNG. They're 40-50. Who else is wearing them? They're carried by the Omisalj municipality. How? Through a concession fee. I'm sure Mr. Lenart who previously exhibited doesn't know how much that concession fee will be. So a million kunas, estimated at a million kunas. We expect another million kuna through the extra fees. So that's 10% of the current budget of the Omisalj municipality. Who else will bear the economic gain of this realization? It will also be worn by the Primorsko-Gorski County. How? Through a concession fee. Where is the position of LNG Croatia? So Janaf, Dina Petrochemy. Whether this is an important tourist area, or if we need to look for space to realise projects that can benefit all types for the Republic of Croatia. It's an environmental aspect. She said it all in the waist. 14:2 for a positive assessment of the impact study on the environment of this project on the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83966	Thank you. We have 13 replicas on your exhibit. I'll just read it, thirteen. I'll just read to see that someone didn't happen, that something didn't miss. So Klisovic, Grbin, Jerkovic, Hajdukovic, Stazic, Jovanovic, Škibola, Linic, Lenart, Djujic, Zagar, Alexic and Zmajlovic. Did we leave anyone out? We didn't. Excellent. So here we go. The first one's a colleague of Klisovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83967	Thank you very much, Vice President. I welcome the minister who's here, finally come to the Parliament. Minister, first of all, I also believe that this project is of strategic importance for both the EU and Croatia. That its implementation and implementation cannot go without direct dialogue and consultation with the local community. You mentioned here that you had certain contacts. But I have information that the Omisalj municipality asked you in writing to study the viability of the floating LNG terminal project and that you refused to send it to them. So I'd like to ask why? Likewise, they asked for talks with the prime minister and with former Deputy Prime Minister Martin Dalic. They're deaf to it. The Minister of Tourism did the same. Do you think this government is communicating enough with the local community and does this government provide sufficient material to the local community to have full information on what is being prepared? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83968	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83969	Thank you, well-respected representative Klisovic for this question. So, as far as communication with the local community is concerned, I've listed the dates we've been communicating on, and thank you for respecting that in the first part of your question. As to our obvious or requirement of Omisalj municipality for the delivery of that study, therefore the study was not required by the Omisalj municipality to ask the Ministry. The Ministry in that part of the procedure is, as you know, a neutral institution or a neutral body of state administration. The study was to be asked by LNG Croatia. As for communication, the government of the Republic of Croatia with units of local self-government both with municipalities and with cities, not in this case, but in the good part of the case, I would say that according to at least what I personally hold, our meetings, our outings on the ground, our field meetings of the Government are just suggesting that this government of the Republic of Croatia is very intensely communicating, both with local self-government units and with the counties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83970	Thank you. Next Grbin, then Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83971	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, first of all, thank you for showing up at the Croatian Parliament and for allowing us to ask you questions. I think it'd be for all the more elegant if you came at the beginning and you'd have more time for exposure, but well, you'll have more in the end. First, about what you just said. By law, the right to access information is your responsibility as a public authority to deliver any information you have, even if you do not... the manufacturer or author of that information, which means that if you have this study and if anyone, and especially the units of local self-government, asks you, you are obliged to give it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In your discussion, however, you said something contradictory to what the Law says. I'll read your article. 6th, St. 2. The change in investor ownership structure is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a decision or conclusion. This means that you as a Government at any time and beyond what is in paragraph 4. determined 10 years from construction, you can at any time change the ownership structure of investors. And it's not based on those provisions of other laws that regulate it. A simple decision or a conclusion. And it's in conflict with what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83972	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83973	Thank you very much for asking, Mr. Grbin. I'm not really a legal profession, so what you've quoted me as saying is that the logical address is once again in the context of an environmental impact assessment of a procedure like this exactly the investor, or those who designed this study to require that study. And as for the change in any ownership structure you're talking about, so in 10 years or whenever, you might happen to be the government that's going to change the ownership structure of that same LNG terminal. We hold that the long term, i.e. 10 years is the shortest long term in which no way should be penetrated into that ownership structure, and that is why we show that we believe this project as the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83974	Jerkovic and Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83975	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to stop saying that this floating terminal project is of safety importance to the Republic of Croatia because it's simply not true. There are documents, I guess you didn't think we'd come to visit theirs, which clearly and unequivocally speak in favour of Croatia having alternative solutions in the event of an end to Russian gas supply. What you mentioned about the problem of Austria and the price hike by Italy, so that's not why you insist on the floating terminal, why don't you agree to the land terminal that the citizens of Omis agree to? Besides, don't say this is just about us. Who doesn't have an alternative solution? No Hungarians, no Serbs, no BiH. It's a strategic project for them, not for us. Instead of continuing to repeat it to us, would you rather tell us what you agreed with the Hungarians, whose lobby you work for, in whose name do you work?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83976	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83977	I would like to thank the honourable representative Jerkovic for your question. All of what you have said actually shows a fundamental lack of knowledge of any context and any knowledge of the energy market, whether Croatia, any Europe, and simply if I go I should probably answer all of these issues for 55 minutes, let's call them that, which you presented in your presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83978	Thank you. Hajdukovic and Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83979	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have a 30-year-old project that is now going by emergency procedure, and today everything has to be settled, tomorrow has to be voted on. So I want to ask you, I think that taught by the most recent experiences we have to, what's your favorite old track race? Is it the Klingons, the Cardassians, the Borts, the Jem'Hadar because I'm afraid where this law was written, or are we going to have a Jem'Adjudicated Group who wrote this law? So we have an emergency project that's 30 years old, and we're going to buy a ship that's older than the plane we bought the F-16s, and like a colleague said, it's okay, it can't fall, but it can sink. So I think that this project is also invaluable, obviously, we will sink and will be paid by Croatian citizens, which is this article 12, and I'm glad you're here so you'll be able to hear my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83980	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83981	Thank you very much, distinguished representative Hajdukovic. So the working group for the drafting of this law was established in 9.1.2018 according to the information I have, which I entered before coming here for this debate in the Croatian Parliament. As for these groups you listed, that's the answer to that question. As for the ineligibleness of this project, so this project only makes sense to realize if it's worth it. Let the first phase of terminal lease go badly, let the second and third stages of terminal lease show the real interest of potential tenants. Those phases last about half a month, and then we'll know everything, and we'll be smarter than you and I. As far as the ship's age is concerned, there is a tender at this time, or a tender for the purchase of a ship is open, and it says that this ship can be old, look wonders, up to 11 years old, read, and then discuss a little better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83982	Stazic pa Ivanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83983	You're telling ministers that you're protecting the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. The strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia is for me the interest of its citizens. The island of Krk currently lives 19 000, i.e. on the last list of 374 inhabitants, which is 1514 more than on the 2001 census, the population there is increasing. The locals live on tourism and achieve 10%, 10% tourism in the Republic of Croatia. It's in your money, it's in your money, it's billions of kuna, it's in your money, 250 million euros, and you promise them a million kunas of annual concessions. On the one hand, 250m euros, and on the other hand a million kuna a year. So what did they do to you? What did they do to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83984	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83985	Sir, I'll thank you for your question. So the strategic interest may be different from you and I. I wouldn't go into that. When we talk about a strategic project of LNG terminal on the island of Krk, we are talking about strategic interest for all 4 million and 300 and some thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about numbers keep in mind the fact, and the tourist income, keep in mind the fact, I don't know if you were there, in one of your visits there, it was 23.10. I was in a position where that floating terminal should be built. Go there and see which tourist complex you can make in the area of Dina Petrochemia, i.e. Janaf's warehouses in Omislje. And then we can continue this debate, either in the Parliament, or somewhere for coffee if you want me to explain a few more figures in the context of tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83986	Thank you. A colleague, Jovanovic, and Shkibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83987	Mr. Minister, I see you've taken the haughty stance of a high-ranking doctorate on Martin Dalic, but unfortunately for you you haven't been able to sit in her chair. You are still telling the truth, so you met Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic in Croatian waters when she came to pray that the waste of DINA petrochemicals, which, as far as I know, has not yet been solved even though you promised it would be. So you don't keep your promises, you don't tell the truth and the citizens of Omis, Krka, the coastal-goran County can't trust you. Here's the man who sat in the chair that you so wished for, Mr Horvat, saying that this floating LNG will do business with the loss, we also know if the capacities are not filled in that the insurance must be paid, so I ask you, how can you claim that the citizens of Croatia will not be damaged and that this is a strategic project for them? It is not a strategic project for Croatian citizens, start building a land terminal that is supported by everyone in the PGZ and everyone will be pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83988	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83989	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic, for your question. So, I was just reacting to your thesis to lie. You put that out in your presentation, if I'm not mistaken, it's a pretty rough qualification. I ask you to refer at any time to something I said or a colleague who spoke in the context of my presentations and to indicate what it was about. So I met once again with Mrs Ahmetovic in Croatian waters and three more times afterwards. Maybe you weren't listening, I have dates. When we talk about the context of some other things I just have to say one more time. So this terminal as such makes sense and will do business if it operates positively. And I'm behind it as a minister. In another context, it doesn't make sense, and I'm convinced that if enough capacity is purchased, that this terminal can operate positively. When we talk about these terminals in Europe, you mentioned the example of Lithuania, 30% of the lease, did you see how much the price of gas in Lithuania fell the moment the terminal was built? Check, 30%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83990	Thank you. My colleague Škibol, after him, is a colleague of Linic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83991	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I'm interested in what reason do you force an emergency procedure? For what reason could it not have been possible to go to all the readings and perhaps even three readings if so many public concerns about this project? The second question which is an indication of the justification of what I say, Article 2 of the reasoning says the said compensation will not affect the price of gas in the Republic of Croatia towards final customers but will be determined at an annual level by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency under the existing transport tariffs, or point. So is with a law that's unfinished, which the articles are deficited, so this is grammatically incorrect, and you're going to an emergency procedure with such an unedited law, and a lot of the public is worried, so is it serious?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83992	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83993	Thank you very much, Mr. Scybola, for your question. So I think it's quite serious if we look at it or analyze it on a European energy scene, then we would realize that the terminal is actually finished in the first half of 2020 and should be a priority for anyone who builds it. Why? Because these years later, long-term supply contracts with alternative gas sources expire. But not to go to the topic of gas too, what I certainly want to point out to you is the fact that we hold that despite this article that was quoted, there will be no increase in gas prices for end-users in the Republic of Croatia. And that's what I'm behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83994	Next is counterpart Linic, after which, colleague Lenart, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83995	Good afternoon, Mr. Minister, Your Honor. Thus, there is no longer any doubt about the exceptional harmfulness of spilling into the sea of chlorinated seawater use for inflammation. The thesis of environmental impact study makers for the floating LNG project is not expected to have a negative impact on the sea of chlorination is shocking given the amount of data and studies that speak the opposite. So making such a non-serious study of environmental impact is scandalous and it is obvious that it serves only as a justification for the project. My question is, the only question is, what kind of ship are you planning to hire or buy, and how are you going to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83996	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83997	Thank you very much, Mrs. Strenja-Linić, for your question. So, the thesis you've shown, we're not keeping it exactly in the ministry, so the waist isn't holding it exactly. What's this about? I'll count it very briefly, Mrs. Vesna Montana, Mr. Hrvoje Buljan, Mrs. Snježana Djurisic, Mr. Pr. Neven Dujic, Natalija Cengić Glavnik, Vesna Trbojević, Milivo Andrak, Prof. Dr. Igor Rudan, Dr. Sc. Robert Precali, Dr. Sc. Nenad Leder, Željko Cretila, mag. Vesna Kosčak Miosic Stosic, Vesna Salamunović, dr.sc. Koraljka Vahtar Jurković, Zoran Hulenić, Zlatko Klobas are members of the commission, which declared this environmental impact study a positive vote, which was against only representatives of the Municipality of Omisalj, i.e. representatives of the PGZ. When we talk about the ship, the intention is therefore to get and buy, once again the tender is on the LNG's website, to buy a boat with an open system as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83998	Thank you. Next fellow Lenart, after that, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u83999	Your Honor, Vice President. Here's a fellow minister you say, Lenart doesn't know, so as she has the thesis, she says, "If I knew what I don't know, I'd be the smartest person in the world" and by that point you'd probably be smarter than me then. You stick to this more difficult security of supply all the time and it's an argument to you the same as to lex Agrodor was saving jobs, and then the economy so eventually the citizens won't pay anything. So does this thesis. According to the stress test I mentioned here by the EU, Croatia is not mentioned as being at risk, is not recognised here, so part of Europe is at risk and we are doing it for that part of Europe and not for this. As for the LNG terminal of the Kvarner Bay. From Kvarner Bay they have an interest in citizens who live there in tourism, so they earn money. From the LNG terminal, certain joint, managers or some group will earn. The locals will have no interest in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84000	Thanks, buddy. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84001	Mr. Lenart, thank you for this question. No comment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84002	Next is counterpart Djujic, after him, Sagar. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84003	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you named it by the dates when you all met with Mrs. Mirel Mahmetovic, the head of the municipality, Mayor Komadin, and you believe that it was the talks about this project. But you said, we met during this meeting, when we met there, we met there, and we talked about it among other things. It's not a serious conversation for me, and as far as I can tell, you haven't spoken seriously to these, our representatives, our county, exclusively and only about this project. You said in your debate that you were sorry that you did not speak more intensively to the residents of Omisalj municipality and the inhabitants of the Primorian Mountain County, and you apologize to them this way. Look, Minister, if you're really sorry and you're really sorry, then you'll best show it in that way, that this debate goes into second reading, preferably third reading, because then you'll truly show that you care about it, to find a compromise, because that three months to the second reading won't compromise this project, and you have the opportunity to convince the residents of Omisalj municipalities of their claims or accept their argument and make a decision fixed LNG terminal. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Đujic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84004	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84005	Thank you very much, Mr. Djujic. So there's no compromise with untrues, at least I don't have one. Most of what you've presented and the question is false. Once again, I will repeat the 23.8th topic of talks with Mrs Ahmetovic at the ministry was precisely LNG, respectively, DINA petrochemicals. 23.10. in Omislje, LNG, and Petorchemia, Dina petrochemicals, 7.11. again LNG. Did I do something wrong? Ask Mrs Ahmetovic, she is ultimately, the main fighter against LNG, probably doing her political affirmation within the SDP. Certainly not on objective facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84006	After that, colleague Žagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84007	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers, this topic certainly exceeds, the weather burning and your mandate and us, the mandates of us MPs, in particular implications, which will also have an impact on the Croatian economy then on the environment. From the point of view, when you're talking, I'm a little surprised how safe you are talking, how you're personally going to say, withdraw your opinion, if this project isn't economically evaporative. You can't know that at this point, especially from the point of view of being investors. However, what I am interested in is how it is possible that such a low level of communication in our society, as well as you as a minister and the entire government towards citizens, is that there are still dangers, because citizens do not necessarily need to be educated in all aspects of this project, and especially in this ecological part, when we talk about pollution, especially Croatia, as a tourist country. And it doesn't even matter how many times you've met with the head of the municipality or the mayor, it's important how much general perception of the public and how the public will convince you that this project is not harmful but will benefit the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84008	Thank you, mate, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84009	Dear Representative Sagar, I thank you for your question. I agree very well with the thesis that this kind of project is necessary to communicate. However, I ask you once again to respect the position in which I, as Minister of Environment and Energy, are located, i.e. before I made a positive decision in assessing the environmental impact of this project. So before her, I as the one who signs the final decision on the environmental impact of this project, actually cannot communicate in a way that, as an advocate, the minister behind the project should. And that's why, if you follow my communication, that is, you followed her in the first months, it didn't happen. As far as economic aspects are concerned, I am a doctor of economic science and I believe that such projects simply don't make sense unless they're economically viable in the long run. The phases in which we are currently located, i.e. in which we will be in the coming months, allow us to detect whether there is real interest in the tenants in different areas of Europe, including in the northern countries that we have talked about here or not. If he doesn't exist then that story just doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84010	Thank you. So before we take a position on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, which we have 3, let us finish the replicas, we have two more replicas. Thank you very much. A colleague of Alexic and his last colleague, Zmajlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84011	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the local community is definitely against this project, it's obvious, they've had their differences, you haven't been able to convince the local community that it's a good project. I'm no expert in that part at all, so I'm listening to the profession from all sides. And simply, the waist is also divided around the project, some say it's completely harmless, others say it's not, the third advocates the land terminal, the fourth is not advocating any terminal, but they think no terminal is needed at all. And in this situation where you have failed through public debate and in the last, let's say, not you, but in general all those who have been dealing with it, in the last 10 years, failed, to create some consensus amongst the people who do so, I don't think it's time to do such a thing and to further discuss the whole situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84012	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84013	Thank you, dear representative Alexic, therefore, in the context of the construction, that is, the construction of this terminal, the issue of the profession, we can look from one perspective or another. I can once again testify to you, as the profession has said, that is, 16 members of the commission who were in charge of the evaluation, above all of the environmental acceptability of this project. She gave this project a green light. As for the inhabitants of Omis, i.e. the island of Krk, I believe that the amount of misinformation that has been exposed in the last 6 7 months has done its part. I believe you'll agree with me. You said you were not an expert, nor am I an expert on environmental issues, but I believe that what the people of Omis experienced, i.e., the island of Krk, misinformation and activeism, which was primarily designed by certain interests of which they would not have done in this honorable House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84014	Thank you. ... Former Environment Minister Michael Zmajlovic, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, what I'm interested in here, so it could be heard from your exposure that this company, a special company that manages the LNG project, Croatia, will not be sold for the next 10 years. My question is how is it planned to finance the rest of the investment, since we know that one part of it is financed from Grant from the EU? So that's question 1. Secondly, on the basis of which indicators, which analysis was taken in 2016 to make a decision to give up the land terminal and go on a floating trip, since it is known that in 2015 it became a powerful location permit? So from 2015 to today it's been 3 years, 3 years, and we now say in 2018 we urgently have to pass the law in order to be able to realise the investment by 2020. What's been going on for three years? On what basis has it decided to go to a floating terminal and how will the rest of the investment be financed?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84016	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84017	Here's my first thanks to my colleague, Dragonovich, for this matter. So as far as the ownership structure is concerned, at the moment the ownership structure of LNG Croatia is 100% Croatia, as you know, Plinacro, that is, Croatia's electricity industry. Our idea that this project is really funded in part by entering capital itself in a way that the project is dominantly owned by the Republic of Croatia, so 50 plus share, it is very important to know. In addition to this, it is important to highlight the fact that this project, given the positive projections of its cash flow, will also be financed by a loan, so other than... The speaker doesn't understand. As regards the study to which you refer from 2016, it projected in the selection of the land terminal that the lease, i.e. Leasing the ship at an annual level that goes into operational cost of 50 million euros, if I am not mistaken, there is no project that would allow such high costs to be cost-effective. I told you everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84018	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84019	Now we're going to go back to the individual debates he has believed or not 25, so we're dealing with this point pretty much the same way with the next one. Let's start with the first individual debate, she's a respected representative of Mira Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84020	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. Here in this law which is now sent to us in an emergency procedure we see, there is no minister I'm sorry I don't hear, I have to ask a few questions, but he has his assistant, I know it's now, it's probably not a direct transmission of television. The fact is, this is not the first time that state authorities are essentially imposing certain projects that are harmful to the ecological, economic and all other aspects. We have so recently and an example of a thermal power plant on the river Cetina, we also remember events and boasts by the government, mostly then the former Deputy Prime Minister who assured us all here and acted inappropriately, that the project was harmful, that it was not harmful, that it was environmentally acceptable, but in the end the fact that it was proven, i.e. that the scientists 67 scientists had made it clear, publicly said that the project was harmful to the ecological, economic and of course and strategic. From this I can only send a message to the locals and citizens of Krk, local self-government, i.e. from that area and even the whole county their that simple spatial plans are those that must be the key to all decision-making. I would ask a few questions to you as an assistant or a co-worker of the minister because this law infrequently violates domestic, European law with great consequences, and this award of concessions to a law to a concrete company that is soon planned to sell to a majority permanent owner without implementing a concession procedure that was transparent and based on objective criteria that ensure effective and non-discriminatory access to the market, to all EU economic operators. In addition, all of this is done on nothing inexplicable for as long as 99 years. The Constitution defines the powers of units of local and regional self-government, spatial planning with a harsh violation of the European Charter of Regional Self-Government. So this law, which means in the emergency procedure, we are also breaking the Charter of Local and Regional Self-Government, of the European Charter. As well as the Law on Ports and the Law on concessions as well as the relevant European Directives, by the saying... the exemption for direct concessions to energy entities connected to the existing network, LNG will receive a concession for activity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a shame here, we don't have any meaning here by this law vaguely, i.e. the absence of clearly defined procedures, public obligations in the event of damage, construction of the work and decommissioning of the terminal, in particular in the case of accidents and incidents. It is therefore extremely unserious to pass a law regulating the construction and use of a floating terminal for UPP without regulating liability for damages that can arise by boarding, landing, storage, decommissioning, and insurance and liability. The decision on the acceptability of the environmental procedures clearly defines the obligation to adopt a decommissionation plan before the start of construction, also the rules of the terminal operation which will ic in the public debate within a week to ten days have built-in and responsibility for damages, for the environment that may occur during the operation of the terminal. It is also easy to check on HERA pages that working rules and general conditions are already approved as such. Under 3, there is no analysis of any financial, technological, or security-planned construction of a place to supply the UPP in the port of Rijeka.. the port, as well as the projects of the UPP terminal on the island of Krk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is quite certain that the huge financial burden of all gas users in the Republic of Croatia, this is like the fourth, perhaps the strongest message in terms of our citizens, is quite financially invaluable this proposed project. For the purposes of Article 10(3), in order to ensure the measure referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Agency may determine by decision the level and method of collecting supply security charges, and in paragraph 4 of this Article, the Agency shall determine at an annual level according to the proposal of the operator the transparency of the system, and on the basis of the less leased capacity of the UPP terminal in relation to the planned lease of the capacity of the UPP terminal. Therefore, gas collection can be expected for all natural and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia because the financial viability of the project can and should only be demonstrated if the capacity is greater than 1.8 billion cubic metres per year. I suppose the project will be profitable, otherwise no final positive investment decision should be made. The investor is the only one who can financially talk to him about financial viability. Who's gonna pay if he doesn't get paid financially? Who's going to pay if this project isn't cost-effective if it's not the market? They'll pay the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This law doesn't define anything, does an investor pay for the losses? I repeat once again that local self-government has its own spatial plans, we see all the units of local self-government and the county of the coastal-goranska that in this case it opposes this project to be built in this way and of course I can say in my own personal name that I will not support or vote for this because, first of all, it is untransparent, in a very short time, this law, meaning by emergency procedure, is a lot of vague questions, it is not known in whose interest this quickly and I believe that this law is unacceptable in this way. It could have gone into two readings, and I personally said my position, that simply no communication with local self-government due to non-compliance with the spatial plans of regional and local self-government due to poor communication with all the leaders in this area, the damages that are not well-communicated here, which can also arise in an ecological and economic strategic manner cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84021	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I think you asked a key question right at the end of your debate, which is why we have an emergency project that is more than 20 years old, 30 years old. So there's a lot of indiscretion, there's a lot of thoughtlessness, and now it's going to push it quickly. The final provisions of the law say that Article 15 should be more concrete that the minister is obliged to conclude a concession investor contract within 90 days. You know what's gonna happen? The parliament will vote it most Friday, will move towards rapid realization, and all the consequences that the LNG terminal can have, therefore, both ecological and economic and all the others who are ultimately carrying it? Well, first of all, citizens of Omis, our fellow citizens living in Krk and at the end of the day, taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia if Article 12 is not eliminated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84023	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84024	That's why the gentlemen won't be in power or we'll be in Parliament, and our children will be in Parliament. children of this area and the whole of the Adriatic because we tourist country will have consequences because of the hasty adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. This isn't the first time. We also remember SOS for the Adriatic initiative that was against the drilling of the Adriatic, we have a TE Peru which was also imposed, so you remember the reaction here by the former Deputy Prime Minister and many other activities. Therefore, this is about the future of our children, us as a tourist country that will have an impact on our Adriatic and overall issues of chlorine use of chlorine, ecological, and strategic, and economic. We didn't get any arguments here. If he says local self-government and people are for land LNG I don't know I'm not an expert, and nobody mentions it here but the other one is being imposed, then I don't see why an emergency procedure will be passed by one law that will stop citizens from defending their interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84025	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84026	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. First of all, at the beginning of the debate, there are some things I want to clarify. So the LNG terminal, or terminal for ingested natural gas, is a strategic interest in the long-term speaking of the Republic of Croatia, the EU, the region. But not a terminal like this, not in this location and not with this technology. It was said before that the LNG terminal project was included in the list of strategic projects precisely for the SDP governments and that it is true, but one that would be built on land, so the land terminal, floating as such, is not built into it. When considering the location, Omiš was considered precisely because of the configuration of the terrain, close to the coast that is most suitable for the land terminal, not floating again. There are a lot of questions I'd like to get answers to, but unfortunately we didn't get them through this debate. First of all, I want to know why we're going to lex LNG. We have the Strategic Investments Act, if everything goes according to plan why we have to bring lex specialis, why can't it be done according to already existing legislation. So we can also assume that it is something that is at least suspicious. Why? So Agrokor was one special situation extraordinary, this isn't, this is a 30-year-old project that's been told about intensively for 30 years and that's now going into realisation, but how to adopt an emergency procedure of such a far-reaching law. As to the location itself, Omisalj was considered a land terminal site, I wonder if, therefore, it was not considered a floating terminal location, I wonder if this government was doing a study or considering other locations or just crossing this floating terminal project in Omisalj? If she considered whether there were certain documents, whether there were studies, conclusions, records of discussions, etc. which could show us why Omishal is suitable for such a project and not somewhere else? I'm no expert on this, but when you do a little research, I can tell you that there are a whole series of other locations on the Adriatic that would be much more suitable, and maybe they wouldn't have the consequences of what a floating LNG terminal in Omislje will have. And what are the consequences? First of all, the impact on tourism. Did you know colleagues and colleagues on the island of Krk 10% of Croatian tourism? Translated into figures is 250m euros in revenue per year. Have you heard of the archaeological complex Mirina Fulfinum, have you heard? It is among the 20 top archaeological destinations in Croatia, thousands of visitors visit it daily during the season, and everything is 300m from the proposed location of the floating terminal. And now imagine, you're going to have one of those huge scales that roars and shines 24 hours a day next to one of those attractions. Croatia is a tourist country that wants to live off tourism Krcans live on tourism and we will do something like this to them in their neighborhood. The second thing is the cost-effectiveness of the project, therefore LNG has repeatedly stated in its public performances that the project of a floating LNG terminal is a commercial project intended for customers, above all outside the Republic of Croatia, and the same are the instructions when presenting the Environmental Impact Study. In the absence of adequate customer interest, the project is now declared a strategic gas source in case supplies from Russian sources are discontinued. So, if we look at the amount of consumption of Croatian gas per year. So it's about 2.5 billion feet of cubic gas a year. At the same time, around 1.5 billion are covered by its own production, so the northern Adriatic and Slavonia, and about a billion Russian gas imports are imported. So these are aproximative numbers, but they're about relationships. In crisis situations, Croatia has options to cover gas shortages and other channels. Thus, the pipeline that connects Italy and Croatia through the platform on the northern Adriatic, which is what experts say, can deliver at least 2 billion cubic metres more. Taking over the entire production from Croatian platforms on the northern Adriatic can also compensate for the lack. Generally speaking, the government has, as far as I know, awarded 5 concessions for testing and exploiting new gas fields in Slavonia. So, if we are talking about strategic Croatian interest, then I think that first and foremost strategic Croatian interest should be to increase the exploitation of its own sources of gas, and only then to think about such a project, if only Croatian strategic interests. Of course, I accept that we are a part and a larger part, above all the EU and of course there are other reasons why the LNG terminal project would be good. But I do not accept that it is good if it is paid by Croatian citizens in their own pocket to benefit our neighbours. Therefore, when we talk about the self-sustainability of the project referred to in Article 12 of the proposed Law, it is evident that it is not self-sustainable. In the amendments I have proposed in this Law, I have suggested that wherever the island of Krk and the port of Rijeka are mentioned, those items should be deleted. Why? So if we go to the realisation of the floating terminal, I don't think this is a good location and we need to think about what technology we want to use first of all because there are different floating terminals on the one hand, and on the other hand, where it means that the very location of that terminal must not harm our tourism above all. Also, I suggested erasing the article. 12th entirely because if the terminal project is not self-sustainable, it is not commercial, why should Croatian citizens pay for it. Especially because, as I said, alternative routes of gas supply exist. One fact that has not been mentioned today in the debate is that building a land terminal would engage three times as many domestic construction operations as a floating one. So, if the government is an investor, if we have an investor, if we have European money, we should certainly think primarily about our own interest, and our interest, I believe would be especially a fallen construction sector to give these kinds of jobs. So that would be a big procedure. In addition, I have also proposed to delete Article 15 that the Minister must sign a concession agreement within 90 days of the entry into force of this Act. First of all, because of what I said, I think we're going to this hasty, that we need more time, that we can't, and we don't need to limit ourselves to considering a possible location exclusively to Omisalj if we say, we're going to a floating terminal, and by all accounts, we're going and why we're choosing this technology. As far as I know, there are more solutions for and more technology when we talk about LNG terminals. In my humble opinion, at least according to what I could read and what the profession informed me about, we chose the worst solution. That's why we'll see how the government will react to the amendments, of course. I'm not inclined to uphold this law. If the government pulls him into another reading, then we can still talk further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84027	Thank you. The next debate is that respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to say at the beginning of my debate that I absolutely support strategic projects of interest for the Republic of Croatia, I support the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia needs gas, Croatia needs energy independence and Croatia needs development. But what I support, it's a land LNG terminal, it's not a floating LNG terminal, so I support that option which, that variant of this project that it basically supported and launched exactly the former SDP Milanović government as it was said here today, not this subsequently corrected floating option. For what? So this is an important project precisely because of what I've been talking about in my introduction and important projects don't break over their knees, they don't force themselves, they don't pass special laws lex specialis so that they can impose on the local community and they can't possibly be brought forward without consent and harmony with the inhabitants of the area where such projects should take place. That's what the first assumption is. Secondly, this government does not surprise me honestly, nor do I expect anything else, since we have already seen, for example, Agrokora, that this government solves problems and what concerns me in this case here is whether and behind writing this law there is some group on the mailing list of the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister, one, the other, the third, does not matter in the interest of some other groups, and not of the Croatian states, but it will show time. I also want to mention certain facts here. And this is that the arguments presented by the government's representatives are in no way and in essence, they are in line with what the locals are telling them together, or at no time did they offer adequate answers. So, all the time the government's been talking, I want to talk, we're sorry we didn't talk anymore, and they did everything they could to keep those conversations from happening. Thus, representatives of the Omisalj municipality sought a meeting in the government with Prime Minister Plenkovic on two occasions. They didn't even get an answer. He hasn't spoken to them at all. They were asked to be provided with an environmental impact study from the Ministry of Environmental Protection, nor did they respond at all to their inquiry. The tourism ministry has not shown what it thinks about this project and how it will affect the tourism of the island of Krk but also the entire PGZ, and this is extremely important in our area since the share of the total tourism of the Republic of Krk is 8%. The most tragic and saddest fact is that the tourism minister is just coming from the PGG and is showing such indifference that he wants to respond to the residents of his county in the first place what he thinks of all this rather than, as they say, pretending to be dead. But he can't ignore it, I don't have a minister's chair forever as a ward of fellow PGG deputies who will raise a hand for this tomorrow when our mandates are over and over, have to go back to their county, have to live down there and have to live with what they voted for and what decisions they made. What I find controversial about this project is that this project is not in line with the spatial plans of the PGG, with the spatial plan of the Omisalj Municipality. What the government should listen to, I am sorry that there is no minister here, which is now gone again because only he can answer this for me, how does he view that against this project are all the mayors and mayors of the island of Krk and all the mayors of the municipalities on the island of Krk regardless of the political options? That the PGG Assembly without a vote has declared itself against, made a decision that opposes this project, the same political options supported this idea? That there was a protest in Rijeka that brought together over 5,000 citizens? That a petition was collected signed by 19 000 citizens of the PGG? That this resistance to this project has brought together all political options and all aspects of the social community in our county is against this and the defenders of the island of Krk, against this are environmental associations, against this are all except the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The arguments which point out why this floating terminal should be and why it is better than land, simply do not stand and why we support exactly the land variant of this project, is because the land LNG terminal is primarily in line with the space-plan documentation of the Municipality of Omisalj and PGG, which already has the rightful locational license, which is more cost-effective, which would employ a domestic construction operation on the land terminal which has resources to build and participate in the construction of this project and thus create a job for the people of the domestic end, which would employ domestic labour as an operative on land, which is not the case in the floating terminal because the ship has no working force, the ship has a crew, and this crew may not be from any part of the world, and it does not be suitable for the opening of the same time in this area as the whole. And most importantly, no speed here is an excuse because the land terminal can be built as fast as floating. What is still signifiable here is that we also don't know who wrote this law, which group, we don't know why it breaks and pushes over the knee, I asked the minister today a question in his replica when he apologized to the residents of Omisalj Municipality and said that I was sorry that there was no more communication with them and that he didn't better explain his reasons for pushing this project, I told him that he could best apologize and show that he was really sorry that this law went into another reading or possibly third so that we could discuss two, three more months of all these problems and arguments of one and the other, and then or the Minister of the Municipality of Omisalj convinced that this was more correct or ultimately listen to arguments in the municipality and that he would eventually make changes and decide what most of the PGEs support, he did not want to answer. But in this way as this is pushed and forced, it forcefully imposes this solution on the residents of our county, we can conclude that essentially everything the government is saying is the opposite of what the government thinks in nature and that it does not truly think about the interests of the population and that they do not care at all what the residents of the PGZ, the Omisalj Municipality and the island of Krk think, but rather behave according to that prime minister, "I can do what I want". Second, why does this law even need it? It is not clear to me because this project can also be implemented under the existing legal provisions of several laws and the adoption of this law is in breach of the laws which are in force to allow for the normal implementation of this project. So, here it's all clear, the government is pushing this thing by force, pushing past the wishes and will of the local population, the only thing that's not clear, we don't know for now, we're still in whose interest and because of who, but I guess we're going to need some more affairs, I don't know, instead of Hotmail maybe being a Gmail or maybe being a Whatsapp affair or a Viber affair, and maybe in the future we'll find out what this project was pushed into in this way and that's what's not good. I hope that by tomorrow there will be little more reason by the government and by the minister, but also that local patriot spirit will work out for the PGG MPs who are in the composition of the ruling majority because we Primors are known as people who suffer a lot, who don't exactly get up, don't jump on the street or burgulate too much, neither against the government nor against the state, but when we have now shown at this protest that we are all against it, then really these things are wrong and I hope that by tomorrow we will still decide that this law is going to go to another reading and that we will still discuss all these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84029	Thank you very much. The next debate is, and I'm sorry, we have one replica of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84030	Here you are saying that Croatia's gas is needed and I fully agree with you, we may need a lot more gas than this LNG terminal can provide. Why? Because here is the Minister of Education who makes an indication that only defenders can be principals of school institutions in the future. And I'm now wondering how many defense departments have secured gas bottles to implement this minister's decision? Because the gas bottles are their standard means of political struggle and they've just brought one tentacle to the position of the defence minister. So this law on LNG is deeply linked to the Law on Croatian defenders and its implementation because these bottles for God's sake need to be filled and the defenders of their privileges must ultimately be satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84031	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84032	Thank you, Vice President. I unfortunately cannot give you the answer to that question, but I think, unfortunately, for at least some time, we will remain deprived of the answer to your question because the bottle coordinator Josip Clem has announced, how much I read, that he is withdrawing from public life after 8 years and we won't see him for a while, and then we won't have an answer to that question of yours, at least not recently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84033	The next debate is the esteemed representative of Ivan Vilibor Sincic, he is gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next debate is the respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84034	The Honorable Chairman. Well, first of all, I would like to say that my colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic explained in the opening statement that this is neither an economic issue nor an ecological one, nor a technological one. He explained that this is also an economically invaluable and ecologically harmful and technically bad method. Of course, precisely from all these facts, but with the emphasis of this economically invaluable method, it is inserted into Article 12 of this Act in which paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 explain in fact that a state agency will actually pay for the maintenance of that FSRU ship, i.e. the entire installation in the Omistry in case sufficient capacity is not purchased, i.e. in case that this system itself is invaluable. In other words, the creation of another loser, of course, will not pay the burden of those who came up with the project by name and last name, but the name and last name of this insane enterprise will pay our own citizens out of their pockets because the prices of gas will rise. I would also like to look back at all of this in light of a recent meeting with representatives of 5 EU countries, i.e. the 5 ambassadors I had at the Dutch Embassy the day before yesterday, and they actually told me that Ivane in the EU things work the way they do, and we are implementing a particular policy here, not because it is good for a Member State, for example. Croatia, but for that reason, watch this why, as friends, they stick together. It was their basic logic, friends stick together, now if one friend says let's go into something that's bad, then all the other friends of course don't ask us anything, we're just there, I said 13 pigs, then he pushes us into that story and everything on our account. When the government boasts of withdrawing money from the European Funds, here in this case I think that out of 400m euros, how much the whole project costs, and the project itself is invaluable, it will eventually bring loss, the EU gives 125m euros, and others means 275m euros, we will have to pay ourselves. Answering the question of where, who, etc. Of course we didn't get it. I want to tell our people a very important thought, what our people think is that America and the EU accept partners and allies, or as some friends who ask questions. However, if you have noticed how American President Trump behaves, he did not ask our President Kolinda Kitarović Grabar or Grabar Kitarović what you think about this LNG terminal, but he asked her what he did to Kolinda you know where Krk and Colinda are saying I know, I know that Krk is and in this way these foreign owners refer to our authority. From the very relationship and from Prime Minister Plenkovic in Brussels, he now claims he was not pinched, but patted his buttocks, etc. or whatever or maybe he felt something that wasn't there, etc. In fact, this relationship is seen, subordinated to that, let's put it among homosexuals, there is an expression active and passive, one that gives and I think that our policy, or the policy of this government, is a passive policy, but it is important to say that in homosexuals there is a principle of mutual consent, i.e. that both enjoy what they are doing, but in this primal passive policy of the Croatian Government we do not have that element of pleasure, and I believe that our citizens will not have it when they account for, so to say more expensive gas. And I simply want to tell the citizens to wake up, to realize that America is not a partner of Croatia and an ally of Croatia, but someone who is exploiting the same thing with NATO, NATO is asking us to buy some kind of aircraft that we don't need, and at the same time they're telling us that we don't need to buy drugs for sick children, that we need to, the EU says the introduction of real estate tax, here they are again, before they called the directives, and then they said it was at the time of the Soviet Union, now they call it guidelines, so rhetoric is changing, but actually politics remains the same, and then they praise themselves, here I will quote Mr. Klisovic, we have provided 2 billion for the Peljeski bridge. Well, here's what I'm suggesting, we could build from our resources the Peleski Bridge, and they could give us those planes. And what's most tragic in all of politics, these planes are not only 30 years old, but they were also donated when they were given, but of course Croatian politicians who would pay them 3 billion kuna, that's not interested. And then such an engagement, to us, to Croatian citizens, is a success. Apart from the fact that the gas is more expensive, it means that it is an ecologically timed bomb and that the Croatian strategy, in general, is a failure of energy. Namely, at a time when it goes to so-called. decarbonisation, that is, when going from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources and when doing so and countries like the third world, let's say Morocco is very much exploiting solar energy, I've talked to their ambassador recently, they're doing huge solar fields, which, now that this last project is completed, millions of people are going to get electricity from these solar panels, they're going to be able to even clean it up. India, for example, is, by the number of inhabitants and by the energy it receives from renewable sources, same in front of us, so India and Morocco are ahead of Croatia, and of course, it would be logical to wonder why we don't invest 275 million euros in it, but we're investing in this EFSR ship that will start with losses that we don't benefit from, and that ship is, in itself, old, God knows how many years. And I'd also like to say, if I could understand, say, a country like Japan, which, for example, gets gas from the Middle East through LNG, I can understand that. I can understand America, if they said, look, it would be a complicated thing to do thousands of miles of pipelines, so we in America are going to make LNG terminals. But if in the country or, say, Taiwan, Taiwan is in a situation that China is not in good relations, so the Chinese will certainly not extend the pipe, so they must also build a LNG terminal. And of course, that's why the gas is more expensive. But we in Croatia, which already have pipeline gas, which is cheaper, to go into such a single project, only because it requires America, it actually shows how much we have fallen, how much we don't appreciate, how much we are doing against ourselves, and I call on this Croatian people to stand up to this passive receiving policy of humiliation, where we actually get in the way of the shears all the time, we get bad projects, and the good things bypass us. And one more thing I'd just like to mention about that Pelješki bridge, the government says 2 billion 200 million or I don't know how much that money will cost and we'll get those funds from the EU. However, I ask you, did the Croatian State last year only pay out loans to these countries to partners and allies, which you often state, give 35 billion kuna? So the interest chiefs we've been paying back. So we gave 35 billion on loan, and they generously said, here's this bridge. So I could do the same thing, if I were to take advantage of someone economically, if they gave me 1,000 kunas a month, and then I could take him to a restaurant once a month, and here I am, I'm saying, more than I'm a good man, I've honored you with 100 kn. But basically our policy comes down to it within that neoliberal system, is the Croatian country, which is exploiting, exploiting and what's worst, the price will pay the citizens, because look, I wouldn't mind, that America says, look, we're with the Russians in some geo political conflict, for that reason, you're our country ally, we want you to build this LNG terminal, but that the Americans say, but since we know it's not worth it to you and that this conflict and war, in fact that you have nothing to do with it, that it's ours, we'll be a gentleman, so we'll pay for it. So it's not a problem for America to have a fight with others, through our spine, but at its expense. So let those LNG terminals pay, let Trump say, here, I'm a billionaire, I'm Donald Trump, I'm from Trump Tower I'll pay that money. No, it's what America, through our spine, wants to fight other countries with our money, and we in the Living Wall are opposed to that kind of policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84035	Thank you, thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84036	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, you know we are in this House representatives of the people, representatives of our citizens and, above all, representatives of our constituents. Now I'm curious, you've been talking here about financial evaporation, who's going to pay the losses, etc. There's no such thing as Trump and Tower Trump who can pay for the cheek and who can pay for the price of the cheek. And that's what I'm interested in, let's say, colleagues from HDZ, from the Primorian Mountain County, will come to our citizens tomorrow, when tomorrow they raise their hands for this, against which all our citizens are. And I'm particularly interested in that, for example. from the mayor of the city of Bakar, from which this huge building is supposed to come to his backyard and that in the city administration, every an, every time he drinks coffee through a window, there will be no more sun, but will sit in the dark, shadows of that old sunken ship. That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84037	Thank you for the response of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84038	Mr. Djujic, I agree absolutely with you, and I simply don't understand where the common sense is for these people, how they don't see, what every one of us sees. I used to wonder, when I was a kid, I was naive and I wondered how politicians, didn't see anything wrong, and then later, as I grew up, I realized it wasn't that they didn't see it, but they had some interest that maybe you and I don't have. But unfortunately, I noticed one more thing about citizens, when citizens make a decision, they don't wonder if the decision is right or wrong, but they're wondering where I am in that story. And if they see themselves in a story, even if it's bad, they'll join HDZ and support these crazy projects. And on the other hand, if they're not in that story, then when they don't have personal benefit, then their eyes open like that, etc. I think we need to fight corruption at all levels and we need to start changing the state of awareness of citizens and we need to get out of mentality, where everyone is looking at ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84039	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84040	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Pernar, around NATO and aircraft, NATO advised Croatia not to buy planes, but to develop helicopter forces, to develop anti-aircraft defenses and other types of military aviation, but Croatia decided to buy some old aircraft. NATO exists to contribute to those defence segments in which the state cannot secure its own capacities and Croatia, for example, in this part of the fighter aircraft. You've made it very clear around LNG why you're against floating, you've explained that you're renewable energy sources, and I would support that, and I'm an advocate of a great renewable energy source, but they're very expensive. In the meantime, how do you get over that transition? So is the Living Wall advocating and supporting the LNG land terminal on Krk? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84041	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84042	Here's my dear colleague, you surprised me with your opinion I didn't know that NATO was the same against buying those planes. Here I am now on the same side as NATO as the acquisition of Prime Minister Plenkovic and his team. At least sometimes that me and NATO are on the same frequency, if the information is true. But as far as this terminal is concerned, look at all the cost. You say renewable sources are expensive, but buying a boat that you need for 275 million euros is literally throwing money into the wind, and therefore the gas that we buy is more expensive, so that's where it's seen from the plane that it's a missed project. That this FSRU number costs one kuna, that keeping that terminal costs zero kuna, but if the gas is more expensive it's a waste of money. So we're not asking for money to be a concept that doesn't exist, we're asking that the money the government wants to throw away that 275 million into renewable energy sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84043	Thank you. The next debate is the respected representative of Mihael Zmajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84044	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I think that from the debates so far it could be concluded that one large majority of MPs actually see nothing controversial in the finding that the construction of a natural gas terminal is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. The project actually dates back to the early 1990s, so it was interrupted because of the crisis and the war events in Croatia, and in 2008, the government set this very location for the terminal. And then, of course, because of the crisis and the political and economic crisis, the project was put into a drawer for well-known other reasons and events in the Republic of Croatia and only by the arrival of the SDP government, so Zoran Milanovic again put the project as a priority and as one of the strategic interests. And just by pawning the government, the project has come to a list of projects of strategic interest for the entire EU. And only then can I say that one such project is given special importance. But whether such a project should break over its knees and whether it should go with this project against the interests and attitudes of the local or regional community is another issue. That is why it is unexplainable, that I today and in the presentations of the promoters and the minister did not get an answer which affected the decision to reduce the project in 2016 in some way and to switch to a floating LNG terminal and that is what is here in the public today, but also in this assembly point of reluctance. So we didn't actually get any clear arguments as to why this happened, so the more the land terminal project got its rightful location in 2015. It was previously obtained also from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and a solution to the acceptability of environmental procedures with respect to all possible measures to reduce the impact. And then, through the process, the local community simply accepted one such project and there was little resistance because there was enough time to justify the presentation and interest of such a project, but also the interest of the local community if a land terminal occurred. The question is crucial, why is this project of strategic interest for the EU, but also for the Republic of Croatia, why must it be left to reduce and assume the interest of investors rather than the interest of the Republic of Croatia or society as a whole? It is known that the construction of a land terminal would have greater macroeconomic effects for the Republic of Croatia of certain multiplicity effects, higher number of employees and during construction, but later in time during the duration of the project itself, regardless of what increases certain capital costs. It is known that, for a certain quantity or capacity of that gas in operational costs, the land terminal can even be twice as cheap, so the costs are lower than the floating terminal. Here it is my opinion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should have used and used all the power of diplomacy to advocate that this project gets even stronger EU support in terms of covering certain capital costs and investment costs so that this project to be set up as a long-term sustainable project makes sense, not that it is now being reduced, modified to harm, let's be realistic, the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the damage to the environment. In my view, it is unacceptable if in the first version of the land terminal it was forbidden to use seawater for gas injection and if there was no need for cleaning to be done through chlorine, so chemically by this project we agree to something that is less environmentally acceptable. I'm not talking about the land terminal having no environmental impact. There is, therefore, an alternative to having an influence on the sea by floating, and in the land, there is a greater impact on the air because there are emissions of sulphur oxides and of course Co2 where the energy of gas or heat is used is produced through the combustion of gas in order to incinerate the infused natural gas. So, both projects have an impact on the environment, here it goes, in fact, against the interest of the local community and the Republic of Croatia. Why would the Republic of Croatia take the risk of the market on its own? Here, all the time, and the minister talked about not allowing this project to be entered unless it was of interest, unless it would be physical, unless it would be sustainable in the long term, I agree with it, but if it is strategic interest in Croatia, then it should first define an energy strategy that is not yet known, designed for the future period. Since 2015, the low-carbon development strategy, which has been in place in the drawers of the Ministry of Environmental Protection as a body that has been required to adopt it, has been further requested by the amendments to the air protection law for 2 years, a year and a half to postpone the adoption of a low-carbon strategy, I believe that the energy strategy would impose certain objectives and thus put pressure on this sector, in fact, which also pushes the whole EU to, therefore, reduces the transformation of the entire economy to a lower level of carbon. And then this debate today in the Assembly might be more meaningful, then some representatives from the ruling party would not say that it is stupid and that it is pointless to look at in 2050, and at the same time we have a project that the proposer himself says can't be planned for 5 or 10 years, but for 20 years. So, 20 years is a minimal perspective and on the other hand the maximum lifetime of this ship and if we want to look at the long-term development of the Republic, then there is also another argument for the mainland terminal, which is that such terminals work and work, are operational and up to 40 years. So, these are all arguments that are in favour of the government of the Republic, so these two previous Governments, which is short of one year or more of Oreshkovic and this current Andreya Plenkovic, in fact, are stuck with this project and before us, before the Assembly and the Croatian publicity, are now being put on the ground of 100, which is not only the wrong, which is used by the law, which is not necessarily, which we can be used by the wrongly by the law, which is used. And again lost sight of that interest of the Republic of Croatia, but it's only an interest in how to actually save the situation and how to put out the fires. This is why, not because I think the LNG terminal of Croatia should, not because I don't believe that one such diversification of the source will still result in a reduction in the total price of the gas market, so I believe in it deeply, but one such project would have to be secure, long-term sustainability so that both certain projects and renewable energy sources that were here would actually be attractive and interesting for investors. Because if investors do not have the source of this base energy from nasal natural gas, with a safe and predictable long-term price, they will not invest in renewable energy sources. For all these reasons, I cannot support the proposal of this law because I believe that at this moment and this complex project is not of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the big question to which the minister has not given an answer is, in fact, how deeply he believes that such a dimensioned project will receive support from investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84045	Thank you, we have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84046	... Agent Zmajlović, may I remind you. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] On 8 June 2016, the government of Prime Minister Oreshkovic concluded that the project was being implemented in two phases during the first phase of floating, which will be in operation for cca 10 years and in the second phase will be a land terminal. In 2010, the Mayor of Komadin praised the idea of building a floating terminal after a plan to build a fixed terminal for this operation by environmental associations and felt that Croatia needed an alternative gas supply direction. He also said that the floating terminal is not incompatible with land, it is cheaper and when it performs its function, it can be transferred to another location. So, floating is mentioned before 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84047	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Zmajlović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84048	Thank you very much. So, I can't argue here with Mr. Komadin right now, so you've been quoting a statement that I don't know whether it's true or not. So I will repeat just what I still think and argue that for the Republic of Croatia it is certainly a greater interest to build a land terminal, whether it is marketable not only at this point, but whether it can be capitalised, whether there is an interest, that is another question, but what kind of infrastructure and some greater interest, therefore the EU and the Republic of Croatia, that difference, that compensation to the market interest of the sea, and that would actually have to solve the EU and the Republic of Croatia in order to have a project that will benefit our citizens and not only investors in the short term.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84049	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84050	Thank you very much. Comrade Zmajlović, you were a minister, and this was yours, this was your portfolio, let's say so. I am interested in your opinion on the basis of your experiences, whether, now, if this Law were to go to another reading or into a third reading, it would give the period which would take time for further discussion to compromise this project, or whether the speed that makes this project go into emergency procedure, whether, in your opinion, this should go to another reading and, in that period, the representatives of the Ministry are once again talking to the representatives of the Municipality of Omisalj and trying to compromise some decisions or decide whether to go to a land LNG terminal anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84051	The answer of the respected representative, Dragonovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84052	Thank you very much. Bureaucratically, every day, an additional day of delay endangers this project. Politically speaking, strategically, there is no bureaucratic date that cannot be negotiated with the EU if this government works in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So, take extra time, communicate with the citizens, the local community and see what is of interest to the Republic of Croatia, even if it means that the prime minister will have to travel several more times to Brussels and try to negotiate additional deadlines because under the pressure of the deadlines that we have actually negotiated and that is why we have come to the time narrow because for three years nothing has been done, almost nothing, to be more precise. It's our own fault, but we can't now agree to a worse variant that eventually got a lot of public resistance.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84053	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84054	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Dragonovich, I must first commend your debate. I think after what you've been listening to all day today, one, it's good to hear one reasoned debate devoid of prejudice or politics and in some things you might agree with. First of all, you pointed out that the irrefutable impact on the environment was on the land, whether it was the sea. So, I think that's clear. I think only here is the question of what is acceptable to us from all aspects of investment and price itself and of course what will bring security and the provision of citizens, but also the impact on that environment, which is the difference because we know that, you said, here, the air warms up, here the sea cools down, how much it will bring some impact on the eco system, I think we have studies and that they are not questionable. Also, what you mentioned only for the end, long-term development. I think this is exactly what this long-term development, security and supply is about, and that must be the purpose of the whole project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84055	Thank you. Answer. There's no answer. And the last replica is the respected representative of Josko Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84056	Thank you very much. A colleague of Zmajlović, today has been asked several times by either the secretary of state, why is it going into emergency procedures, why is it not going to another reading? Some MPs asked to go to another, and a third was mentioned. The answer we didn't hear went too far as to why it was going into emergency reading. But I think that you were the first to offer it this time, and that is because of the fact that this whole project is being run in a crazed way where we have come into a situation that we may not be able to make use of the funds that the EU has made available to us. And of course, it's now a politically awkward situation that makes them quick. Which is why the interests of the local community or the continuing dialogue with the local community are ignored. We heard that the prime minister and vice president of the government for the economy, the former, refused to communicate and disobeyed their demands. As well as the Minister of Tourism, and the studies were not to be delivered. So that seems to be the real reason why we're going so fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84057	Thank you. The next debate is the respected representative Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84058	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SNAGA party discussed the project a few months ago. We even had a round table in the abbey where we invited both the local community and the project advocates and the opponents of the project. Unfortunately, we failed to gather everything for the same table but from all invited came several experts who understand the problem and came the chief engineer for the project LNG Croatia to explain to us what we do not understand and that she from the point of view of the one who is actually directly involved in the project, says what she has to say. Unfortunately, there was no opposing party that she said her own opinion and that she opposed the arguments to this opposite side. However, the SNAGA party, after considering the complete situation on both sides of the expertise and on some social political side and from the aspect of the local community, decided that it could not support the project because the local community is against it. We call ourselves the People's and Civil Activism Party, and as such a party, we cannot support a project against which the local community is. On the other hand, I personally fully understand that in this state, the Republic of Croatia is unable to cross over the night into renewable energy sources, and now all of a sudden we will all be heating, driving and supplying energy from renewable energy sources. In fact, I don't even think that's gonna be possible in the next 50 years at all. So we need a transition. We can't give up gas and oil as energy sources. However, as I said, we cannot support this floating project because the local community is against it. We tried to bring the same table to the opposite side, we failed. I was later even trying to initiate some round table where I would bring to the same table the opposing sides, but again it was stuck in the sense that who am I now inviting someone to discuss, what do I have here to play some mediator, we're a small party, we've all discussed it, discussed it, and what do I have here to propose and invite someone to the same table? So since such a situation, since we cannot really argue whether this project is good or not, since it is now being pushed into the emergency procedure and it has to be carried out urgently, the SNAGA party will not support the project. I will personally be restrained, I won't be against it because I don't have enough arguments to object to, but I don't have enough arguments to be in favour of the project. And it's very ungrateful, and now that I say I'm abstentioned, it's very ungrateful because people in Croatia are black-and-white. You're either for us or you're against us because I find it completely wrong and completely wrong to see the situation. Abstinence is not always an escape from responsibility, but restraint is sometimes a true need that someone who is not sure of what he should vote for will not then be against what 100%, but will say that he is restrained. So I'd like to postpone this process anyway, this project, because it's not going to be good, in some way it's a declaration of war to the local community, that's a situation where one ruling majority, better said HDZ, which at this point probably doesn't have more support than 15% of the total electoral body, so I'm talking from the total electoral body, you'd probably get a much higher percentage in the election, but your percentage of the total electoral body is about 15%. And those of you who support you, they wouldn't even exist without you, and we should all be well together, think carefully about whether you will support the law and will you ever support this project at this time. In addition, we must take into account geopolitical interests, we know who, Russians and Americans, the Russians don't respond to such a thing, the Americans support such a thing, so in all this we're kind of like some kind of experimental rabbit, instead of using our geopolitical situation in the best way for us and negotiating with one side or the other what's best for us, and that's possible. Such things have happened in the past, the competent statesmen have managed to make the best possible for the Republic of Croatia, I'm afraid at this point we don't have such statesmen and that's our additional problem, and that's an additional argument for us not to support the floating terminal at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84059	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We also heard in the opening presentations of clubs, individual debates, and even the answers of the Minister and Secretary of State that there are very questionable reasons why we have this lex LNG in the emergency procedure today and after the public debate lasted only 15 days. So I will also refer in my individual debate to the fact that the law we are discussing here today is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not in line with the whole series of laws of the Republic of Croatia, it also violates the European Charter of Local Self-Government, it is directly against the will of the people of Omis, Krka, Rijeka, the coastal-goran County, and it is contrary to the decisions of the Municipality of Omisalj, the city of Krk and the coastal-Gorski County. I think that says a lot and that it is our parliamentary representatives' task to respect the will of citizens living in that area and to respect the Constitution and the laws. We heard here today a whole series of allegations that, to be gentle, partially or completely untrue and that none of the 4 conditions that the congregation of the coastal-goran region has stated are met as preconditions that must be respected if we want both Omisalj and Krk and the entire coastal-goran County to support by floating LNG terminal. That's what they're called. 4 e conditions, aesthetic, ecological, economic and energy. None of these conditions are respected and therefore, and now, again, I stress the loudest I can, Omisalj, Krk, Rijeka, the coastal-goran County are not against the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, and the municipality of Omisalj and its inhabitants have proved this countless times, we know well that DINA is there, we know well that JANAF is there, near the refineries, the airport is also there, all this reduces the quality of life of the people of Omis, but they agreed to it because it was all in the interest of the Republic. And now they agree to the land terminal, and that is why it is wrong to have lessons coming from Mr. Horvat, from Mr. Curaj that we are against investment and that we do not guarantee Croatia's energy independence. Not colleagues and colleagues, let's be correct, so we are not against investment, however, we advocate a land LNG terminal that ultimately brings work to a construction operation, which increases the employability of people living in Omislje, and which ensures in the beginning that gross domestic product only rises by 0.5% from that investment, therefore this is true about whether we advocate the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. There's a whole series of economic reasons that are against the floating terminal, here's how much time I'm gonna let you count some of them. So LNG terminal is not the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, we see from the very fact that the Republic of Croatia will not buy the capacity in LNG. So we know that we need 2.6 billion cubic metres of gas a year, that we produce a billion and a half, that the second billion we supply Russian gas that's cheaper than everyone else, can be even cheaper and there's an analysis of so-called. The stress test that has shown that the Republic of Croatia can easily provide additional quantities in case there is no Russian gas from other sources available to us. Otherwise, if this is not Croatia's strategic priority, it shows one fact that I hope, white and I don't know if it's mentioned today. Here, I'll do it if you do it again. So, the fact that this is not our strategic interest proves that the first gas company signed a 10-year contract with the GASPROM to buy one billion cubic gas a year. For the biggest consumer of our Kutin petrochemicals. As far as I know, it is still in the hands of the Republic of Croatia, so it is a logical conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not allow the conclusion of this contract that the floating LNG terminal is a strategic interest. So, you heard everyone today, I'll repeat that the exploitation of the floating terminal in Europe is about 30%. LNG is too expensive and there are not enough interested customers. The Russian gas can easily compete both after supplying the necessary quantities and at a reduced price it can continue to lower. There are around 20 LNG terminals in the EU and they are on land 20. 20 for them and they're up to three times cheaper than floating ones. Of those floating ones, only three work. So, as I said before, unless the planned capacity of 2.6 billion cubic metres is leased, and we saw that the interest is minor, only 4% is leased in the first competition. Article 12 says the Regulatory Agency will prescribe compensation to compensate for the loss of LNG Croatia, which will be owned by foreign authorities tomorrow, so not to Croatian. This fee is kept hidden in the Ministry and I hope that the citizens of Croatia listen and that all the media will pass it on to them, that compensation will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether they use gas or not. Who? Hungarians. So the Hungarians are the only ones interested in buying that gas so they can have a secure supply, and we'll finance it for them. Great. A strategic interest or a hidden job of people who learned to do business that way. As I said before, no construction, no civil operation involved. The ship to be purchased today, we heard it wasn't true it was going to be a 37-year-old ship. However, on the basis of all the promises made by this government and the behaviour of Minister Coric in the recovery... I don't trust him. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, a 37-year-old ship is purchased that must not sail the Croatian sea at all or be in it under the current '97 regulation. A year. No one from the domestic labour force will be employed at that floating terminal. So, the boat will be rented, the crew will be leased, of course the owner will be in the interest of the crew being paid less, it won't be our sailors. Also, these sailors will not pay a tax, which is also solved by this lex LNG- is very strategically favourable for the Republic of Croatia. So, who's going to work? Maybe there'll be some porter at the entrance to the dock or some cleaning lady, it'll be employees who'll get a job thanks to this great law. The budget of the Republic of Croatia, the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, the municipality of Omisalj, is damaged by this lex as it determines the direct award of the concession of LNG Croatia for a minimum price. As a result, the costs of this loss must be reduced drastically and the tender for the award of the concession must be avoided and the price offered may be higher. Well, my people, that's a direct damage to the Republic of Croatia. The amount of concession fee shall be divided by a third. A third of RH, a third of PGG, a third of Omisalj municipalities, and we expect it to receive 250-300 thousand kuna. The Omisalj municipality's budget can expect about 100,000 kuna a year from the utility fee, and you know what it can do with that? It can open a ten-metre-square-sized sanitary node. Let me remind you that in the Omisalj municipality, 50m euros of tourism overnight income, 800 thousand overnight stays are made annually. The Omisalj municipality itself is revenueing from tourism in the budget about 8 million kuna per year based on concessions, leases of public areas, tourist tax and others. Only this year in the Omisalj municipality, about 25m euros are invested in increasing the quality of tourist facilities. Thus, we see from all of this that there is no energy, economic, ecological or aesthetic guarantee that this project can bring something to the municipality of Omisalj, residents who live there. It is interesting that lex LNG foresees giving a concession to 99 years for the construction of a cogeneration gas power plant and a land LNG terminal on the DINA area that is not owned at all by the Republic of Croatia and does not foresee the obligation to buy that land. There is, therefore, a whole series of truths listed by the government and its representatives. So the government claims that the floating LNG terminal is cheaper. That's a mean lie. So the government compares the price of a floating LNG terminal capacity of 2.5 billion cubic metres with the land LNG terminal price of 6 billion cubic metres. When the capacity of a floating and land terminal is reduced to the same level, so let's work on a smaller land terminal, then the land terminal, colleagues and colleagues 100 million euros is cheaper than this floating terminal. The government claims that a floating LNG terminal can be built faster. That's just not true. It is true that for 2 years, the whole project has been delayed because of this government and is now being pushed under cover of haste to meet EU requirements to win money with a floating terminal. The government and the president of the Republic of Croatia claim that the floating terminal can be temporarily used and then untied and moved to another location, re-designed for transport, rented to someone, etc., which is simply not true. So for 10 years, it must not be removed from the space that someone will reach out to, even though it does not meet the conditions provided for by Croatian laws to sail into the Adriatic Sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84061	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84062	... Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Dear colleague, you mentioned the ship's age. Dear Mr. Minister, who is now unfortunately not here, has told us to check on the LNG Croatia sites which are conditions, which I have done. However, I have come up with one problem, the tender is not publicly published, but I can only get it from LNG Croatia if I send them an e-mail, and in order to send them an e-mail, I would have to first fill out a statement of confidentiality, which means that I could not publicly, or present here information about how many years it is to have a ship that should be part of a floating LNG terminal. So much for the minister and so much for credibility. One more thing, you mentioned the crossing of this... ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't think that's doubtful anymore. On the replica of counterpart Zmajlovic, the minister made it clear that the project will be financed by the entry of third parties into the ownership structure of investors, so LNG Croatia's trading company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84063	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84064	Thank you, comrade Grbin. Well, this shows that this government is absolutely not credible and does not work transparently. If they thought that according to the reputation of Lex Agrokor they could write another lex, a lex that goes directly to the damages of Croatian citizens, not only the resident of the Imagination of the coastal-goran County, but also the whole of Croatia because we will lack the capacity, which will not be rented, because it is already clear from previous competitions, we have to pay the difference in order for Hungarian interests to be reconciled with the gas they need and the only strategic interest of this law is in Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84065	Thank you very much. The next debate will be the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84066	Thank you, Vice President. The basic question here is why? Why not land terminal for incinerated gas, why floating? On the one hand, we have all the necessary permits, all the studies, we have a positive opinion of the local population, local self-government, everything we need for the land terminal. Here in the debate so far, we hear from fellow Jovanovic about the same number of cubics, this would be a hundred million euros cheaper. So you'd be cheaper, but why? Why is there something wrong with it? That's the basic question for me. It's not the first, probably not the last time this government does it. And it's usually only after a few years that someone stole something, that someone made a bad deal, that you put it in your pocket, and that was the only motive why the state was taking action. We don't see a trace of that money right now because that store hasn't been done yet. But we are rightly afraid that this will happen because things are going illogically. You're accusing us, on purpose, knowing that's not true. That we are against energy independence, independence of Croatia, so we are not. We advocate a land terminal, it will ensure Croatia's energy independence, but it will also ensure environmental protection, but it will ensure greater employment of people, but it will ensure that all strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia are met, but you will not, you will not. You want this one floating, and you want it fast, as fast as possible, and it's as non-transparent as possible. Without getting an answer here to one dozen, fifteen, maybe twenty serious questions. Why don't you want two readings? That has to be voted tomorrow, you're not going to have two more readings to discuss, to get answers to the questions we're asking, and the questions aren't harmless. You know, it's not an irrelevant law, it's a law that will concern the future and tourism and the environmental security of our citizens there. That floating terminal is coming in, it's cooled down, it's probably at -150 degrees, it needs to be warmed up. How does it warm up so our pipes are put into the sea so the sea is heating up, because the sea is heating up the gas, but the gas cools the sea for that time, the gas cools the sea, then these pipes get through which that incinerated gas is going to catch the algae, and these algae need to be cleaned up, and how do they clean up? How do they clean up? They clean up chemically, with a variant and it goes into the sea. The fact that he's going to the sea at Omis does not care, so the government there, the prime minister will go to Hvar or I don't know if he will, what does he care. It's going to cost 160 million euros, we hear it's going to be 37 years old, someone says it won't be that old, it's going to be 34 years old. What do we have from someone making 160 million euros on an old ship? So where's the interest of the Republic of Croatia? And if we were building a land terminal, they'd hire our construction, we'd hire our workers. And by the way, we would create one lasting value. Here's the minister admitted that on that floating terminal, to employ 50 people, 50 people, just 50. There's some kind of visual pollution. These of Omis will not see by looking at the sea, but absolutely nothing but one ugly, black, height of a three-storey that will cover up the sea at all. And that's fine with you. Bring some nasty ugly, boaty, and tie it there in front of your nose. Krk achieves 10% of Croatia's tourism. Listen to me, 10% of Croatia's tourism, people on Krk live on tourism, you want to rip bread out of their hands because one of you wants to make money? And then in five years, we'll find out who made it from you. Black money, dirty money. Because it's obvious that you're falling into it, obviously you have to vote tomorrow, so it doesn't say anything about it, or talk about it, and it doesn't matter. And it's always like that. It's only a shame, they'll hurt the Christian people, they don't really vote for HDZ, maybe that's why you're doing it there. What do you care about those who don't vote for you? Krk makes 250m euros out of tourism. 250m euros, and the concession fee will be 1 million kuna. But not the Omisalj municipality, it is shared between the county and the municipality, so on the one hand you have 250m euros, and on the other hand a million kuna. And the minister says so look, it's in the interest of the people of Omislje, and yet the budget will get a million kuna. And the fact that Krk may lose 250m euros, what does the minister care? We're talking about, there's not a single captain, not a single mayor, not a single leader, any of the municipalities and the city that supports this idea of yours. Fully complete local self-government. There's not a single man on Krk, no matter which party he comes from, who supports yours. So why? So what have these people done to you? What are you guys up to doing to them? If you were destroying their tourism, harming Croatia and its national interests, and especially those people in Krk, you'd like to know what they did to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84067	Thank you very much. The next debate is the respected representative Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84068	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What a sad day, and tomorrow will be even sadder, indeed a sad and shameful precedent for political elites, and for the current Croatian government. I don't really remember the law, which has caused so much concern and unrest in the local community, and at the same time the government is treating the citizens so illogically, that it doesn't seek dialogue, that it doesn't care at all, that the local community thinks it doesn't respond to applications, to memos, to requests for meetings, the minister boasts of many meetings with Chief Ahmetovic. The only thing I can say, Minister, if he's not here, you've been so successful in explaining your arguments, that there's no one you've won against, you've really been extremely successful. And then you come to us and you tell us how uneducated we are, how we don't understand and how unprofessional we are. Winning against yourself the Municipality of Omisalj, the citizens of Omis, all the mayors of Krk, means all the inhabitants of Krka, the county congregation, means all the citizens, almost all the citizens of the Primorje Mountain County, these really defense associations, environmental associations, you really wonder how you did it, when you have such strong arguments and when you know what you are doing so well. It's amazing how you managed to stay so uninterested about what the citizens are telling you. And dead cold, today, all day long, we've been listening to lies. You say we don't understand, so we understand very well. We understand very well that your motives are non-transparent, that you defend the indefensible and that the financial fiasco of this project, which will happen, will be borne by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that the ecological consequences and consequences for tourism will be borne by the citizens of the Primorian Mountain County. I don't remember such a precedent, that the law proposed by the government represents a harsh violation and a negation of the Constitution and several laws of the Republic of Croatia, the current laws of the Republic of Croatia. The project of a floating LNG terminal is not in the spatial plans of the municipality of Omisalj and the coastal mountain county. And now you're trying to convince us that it's not a key prerequisite, conditions... to declare the project a strategic project by the Republic of Croatia, that this is not a key prerequisite for implementation, evaluation, environmental impact. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That this is not a key prerequisite for issuing local and other permits, for concession, for expropriating land, so you denied it all without blinking. You have not proven the acceptability of the project for the environment, which, of course, the Ministry of Environmental Protection has issued a solution that, however, the solution is not legally, as far as I know, at the moment, as many as 3 administrative disputes have been launched against this solution, from the Primorian Mountain County, the Municipality of Omisalj and the Green Action. You haven't proven the safety aspect at sea, because the narrative study is based on completely wrong data. The expertise carried out has shown that the described safety procedures cannot be carried out in time and the whole procedure should be returned to the beginning, but not a word of it. And not to say that the rights of local and regional self-government are not respected on matters of protection of their health and environmental protection in their area, which, of course, violates the Archduke Convention, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Declaration of Environmental Protection of the Republic of Croatia. And all this time of public debate you haven't even tried to explain or answer the question of what's strategic for the Republic of Croatia in this project, you're just repeating that it's strategic but we don't hear why it's strategic, did you say in one word where the gas will come from, at what price will it be? Who are the gas buyers? At what cost will it be sold? Will the people of Krk, Kvarner, Republic of Croatia use that gas? To what extent, at what price? There's nothing, not a word. It doesn't matter. The question is, do you even know? That's a good question. Whether it's important to you at all, or at this point, the most important thing is that the law just goes through an emergency procedure, as soon as possible and after God gives it. My colleagues have been asking for urgency all day, why the urgency, there's no words. And you have such strong arguments. But he has to go to an emergency procedure. So what's the rush? If people don't understand, people aren't stupid. Perhaps they are uneducated, as Minister Coric says, they are not stupid, so please explain. So give yourselves time; will you not feel better on your own? And don't claim that the floating LNG terminal is better and more cost-effective than land because it's not true. Citizens of Omis are for land terminals, it should be repeated over and over again, because it is, in accordance with the spatial plan of the Municipality of Omisalj and PGZ, it has a powerful location permit, it is more cost-effective than the floating terminal, predicts the engagement of domestic construction operations, etc., etc. Citizens of Omis are for land terminals, but do not claim that the floating LNG terminal is cheaper because it is not true. Don't claim that a floating LNG terminal can be built faster, and that's not true either. Don't claim that floating LNG terminal is a temporary phase. Phase one. That's not true either. Don't claim that floating LNG terminal is easier to build because of property-legal relations, and that's not true. Also, do not claim that the floating terminal in Lithuania is a successful project to be seen because it is not true either. So, despite the great resistance from different sides, you push the law by emergency procedure after only 14 days of public debate and an incredible number of objections to environmental acceptance, to economic cost-effectiveness. Secondly, you claim that we will earn on gas distribution to Hungary, Serbia, Bosnia, Ukraine, etc., but you deceive the Croatian public and we know very well. Because from a market point of view, the floating terminal is a failure and the citizens of Croatia will pay their losses from their pockets and you have put it into law and they must know it. All the losses he loses, the citizens will pay. So, at first it was supposed to be a commercial project so suddenly it became a strategic Croatian project, so we tell you that it is not a strategic Croatian project, we would be glad to have it, but it is not, but that it is someone else's strategic project and even if we want to be solid with these European countries, it remains unclear why we are chasing into this floating terminal. Why don't we make the land terminal smaller that can grow over time as it depends on the needs that it is? It can benefit everyone, not just some lobby, one lobby, some individuals, we'll see which individuals. So everything comes to light, and this will come. There is no doubt that we are once again victims of secret meetings, secret agreements, recorded or unrecorded, that we will see, the actor will eventually be exposed. Deja vu doesn't kill us. Never enough for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84069	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well here you need to make it very clear that Croatia is building a floating LNG terminal because this is what Americans are looking for and that is why the President is taking up the post and that is why this government is pushing the LNG terminal because simply the Americans want to move Croatia away from Russia. And that's why it's urgent, that's why we bring it overnight. If the Americans are so important to this LNG terminal, let them build it, let them pay it. Why do they want to fight Russia over the back of the Republic of Croatia? And that's gentlemen, the main taste of this law. And that's why there's so much illogicalness that we have in this law. First illogicality to ensure security of gas supply. The stress test conducted by the European Commission for the EU's gas pipeline system with two scenarios, one involving a total suspension of gas delivery from Russia for a period of 6 months does not even recognise Croatia as a threatened country. So we don't need an LNG terminal for that. The security of gas supply in Croatia is not the reason why LNG terminal should be built. It is a political, energy facility whose sole purpose is to ensure the energy independence of other countries, not Croatia. Both Hungary and those future countries of BiH and Serbia, and that is what the government deceives the public with. Profitability is questionable, and environmental damage is unpredictable. Atlantic council in its April text makes it clear that Croatia's LNG terminal will never be profitable. Namely LNG terminals have very low usability and the predicted capacity of the Croatian LNG terminal exceeds the annual gas demand in the Republic of Croatia. The typical use of LNG terminals is about 20% somewhere and that is what the government also deceives the public in Croatia. Building a floating LNG terminal is problematic for several reasons. According to the latest plans, the government will buy a used, 30-year-old LNG tanker who will... so it'll be a floating LNG terminal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Such a 30-year-old ship has no ecological standards, today's environmental standards that should be in that valuable location that is worth the citizens of Omis, for the citizens of Krk, and for the entire tourism in the Republic of Croatia. When the liquid LNG is infused at -160 degrees Celsius, it is translated into a gasy state by immersion into the sea. So to enter through evaporators into the sea, these are pipes that are immersed in the Adriatic Sea and that sea will be heated because at -160 to the sea temperature which will be approximately 10k degrees is somewhere 180 degrees away that will warm the sea and the ecological study here says that, the sea will only warm for 1 degree, yes, the sea will cool by 1 degree, excuse me. A 1-degree cooling means a major problem for the environmental system. So you're an example of America that banned it, which banned it from the Gulf of Mexico from building LNG terminals for the reason that in the Gulf of Mexico, the sea temperature dropped by 4 to 5 degrees, leading to problems in the ecological system. Who will be responsible for what will happen in Omiseye and what will happen around Krk? You can laugh at Mr. Boric as much as you want, but you won't be in the Assembly when others say what this Parliament has done to the environmental system around Krk. The other problem is chlorination. The chlorine is harmless when placed in drinking water, but you remember, or everyone who was at the pools, when you put 20 or 30 times the amount of chlorination of water in the pools that that chlorine feels very much and those people who are allergic to chlorine cannot go to the pools. Here, chlorine will be used to suppress the accumulation of algae on these pipes located in the sea. What does that mean for the environmental system? And that's the same thing that America banned in the Gulf of Mexico, it banned chlorine because it led to a sea and a reduction of fish, or a fishing system in the Gulf of Mexico has disrupted itself and America isn't building LNG terminals in the Gulf of Mexico, is that not enough example that we shouldn't do what we're doing? Also, according to Article 12 of this Law,... the terminal shall be paid compensation in the event that the operator's income is lower than planned and sustainable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a security fee, and it will be charged by consumers in Croatia, meaning that Croatian consumers will pay through security compensation for the construction and functioning of a gas terminal that will not spend at all in Croatia, but will spend someone else in Hungary, Serbia and BiH. We pay for the security fee for Macelj, we pay for Bina Istria, and we know that it is something that is not desirable to work in Croatia, we have done it twice, now we will do it the third time. The security fee will be paid by Croatian citizens and the gas will be spent in Hungary, Serbia or BiH. The floating terminal also includes the construction of a substation at Petrolajski port of Rijeka because from this floating terminal you will drive gas to a terminal which, through that terminal, will therefore transfer that gas to the wagons from, where it will be transported further, so we are building another substation between, instead of already having a place where the terminal was expected to operate. And lastly, the location of the terminal was scheduled for land on which Dina Omisalj is located, why did it give up? And not only that, but that is, if a floating terminal is built, it means that the last possibility is to be put out in Omislje, or Dina Petrochemia, anything ever starts, because it will no longer have access to raw materials. So this is what you solve and the problem of Dina Petrochemia has already warned you many times, because building a floating terminal is no longer possible for you to bring raw materials to Dina Petrochemia, and you who are there must know that you have closed the possibility of developing Petrochemy in this area. The argument that a floating terminal can be built faster and cheaper than land only if there is already a LNG tanker for sale that is intended for a change in LNG terminal. There are no such ships, gentlemen of HDZ, no such tankers on the market. And if you look at the possibility of a change, you can't send that ship to the shipyard now. Slot for turning that ship into a terminal is about 20 months or what may be the basis of all this that Minister Ćoric is a very good associate of Prime Minister Plenkovic and that apparently another group of Borg has already prepared a solution if they have already pushed through lex LNG but this time, Prime Minister Plenkovic will not be able to say that he knew anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84071	Thank you. We have one replica of the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84072	So you were also talking about Croatia's citizens having to pay for some other users of this gas, above all in Hungary and on several occasions we are mentioned today as an example of a successful floating LNG terminal in Klaipeida, which is completely wrongly said, so again untrue. Namely, this floating terminal has a closed incineration system, most of the time it is not used to irrigate the sea, and it cannot be used because their sea is colder, it does not use the varicine to wash out heat exchangers. Moreover, this floating terminal, although it today claimed that the price has been reduced, is too expensive, and all losses under the law are paid by the state, so the citizens of Lithuania just as they predicted that we would pay in Croatia for the use of the gas users in Hungary. So a lie to a lie, not credible, not transparent and scandalous.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84073	The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84074	Yeah, we've had experience with Macel, we've had experience with Bina Istria, and I think we could think about these experiences that we don't need another contract like that, but the law also provides for a concession fee for two kunas per metre of square area, which means that about 400 thousand kuna will be charged annually. The concession is issued for 99 years, which follows that only 10 million kuna will be charged over 25 years on the name of the concession alone. The concession does not increase with inflation, therefore it is fixed. And what I note again is that this is the guidance of Americans who want to compete with the Russians through us, and the price of it will be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If the Americans want to have this LNG terminal in this part of Europe, let them pay and finance it, then we'll be happy to meet them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84075	Thank you. The next debate is the respected representative of Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The terminal for ingested natural gas is a strategic project in the Republic of Croatia. As a preparation for this debate, I read the debate in the adoption of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which was passed by law at the time of Milanovic's government. And then on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I had a number of objections to this law, and one of my fundamental remarks was that this Law on Spatial Planning introduces the Croatian system, the legal system into the Croatian spatial system one new element, a new fact, and this is the need to develop a state spatial plan that defines strategic projects in Croatia. And as the Minister at the time, I am sorry that Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash is not here, explaining when there are strategic investment projects for which there are defined on the list of strategic projects of the state, which must have a spatial plan immediately operational, without the necessity of bringing him into county, later on to urban and municipal spatial plans, but when the government's objective interest is to do something then through its strategic spatial planning document, which is the state's spatial plan has a need to make sure that the entire economic development is immediately defined from that plan by the individual project and through its adoption to contact the units of local self-government and regional self-government and regional self-government, but regardless of the position of the units of local self-government and regional self-government when the state is determined according to a specific strategic project, then it is realised. I have this whole exhibition and a replica of the minister, so the complete discussion that I'm talking about today is what I hear from the SDP, and I find a little bit of it all together when today's SDP stands for what it is in 2013 it can be easily read from this debate when the Law on Spatial Planning is passed. When I claimed that the constitutional category of the rights of local self-government units was to define the spatial, urban development of the local self-government unit, when I called on the European Charter of Local Self-Government, etc. At that time, the ruling majority of the current SDP was in power to pass a law saying there is no local or regional self-government to what to say when it comes to strategic investment projects. You see, after five years of turning the board. And I, and then and now, think that it is necessary in this cooperation between the units of local self-government and the regional self-government and the state on certain strategic projects to find that level of cooperation where important strategic projects need to be realized... with the obligation to comply with the highest standards of environmental conservation because it is, in fact, the brake which the unit of local self-government can withdraw when it estimates that a specific strategic project is an economic, transport, infrastructure, energy can cause to reduce the quality of space, air, the environment, sea, water, river, anything in the construction of that environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I just wanted to specifically single out that that moment in 2013 from this left hand side of the assembly was a completely different song when it comes to... strategic projects in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about environmental impact, I am not an expert to be able to define all this together, but I took part just when it comes to Krk, then very active as Secretary of State for the Sea in the process of the Adriatic Society and I was one of those who claimed that the company Adria for this space, the area of the Adriatic Sea, especially for the space of Kvarner, is a harmful project because it brings us large amounts of ballast water to the Adriatic to... JANAF took over the oil from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Adria's companies and then that oil would be sold by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The tankers were taken from the Adriatic and at that time I claimed it was a harmful project and today I think it is a harmful project, given the fact that the technical possibilities for the change and landing of ballast waters were then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, it would probably be a smaller project, today there are already methods to arrange ballast waters for other seas, in other people's seas, to bring seawater from the other side of the world. The second project I was also against was a project of hydrocarbon exploration and exploitation. So I ask the question to all of us here, and especially to this left part of the assembly, when it's being transferred here to the government, who is... and to what extent is the opinion of the local self-government units respected? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On that track, Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash spoke on behalf of the HNS Club, on behalf of the GLASS Club and HSU, claimed that it was necessary to define the way in which this project was handled. As a minister, it was not very important for the exploration of hydrocarbon exploitation to be conducted at the levels of the entire Republic of Croatia, especially the Croatian part of the Adriatic, but it was defined that research and exploitation wells could be brought about 6km from the coast, i.e. 10km from the coast, and 6 km from the outer islands. No one did, I'm also coming from Korčula, even mentioned Korčula seems to me, some of the chiefs who come from the Adriatic municipalities. So no one asked us, this contest started, it was illegal, however, the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction agreed to enter the territorial sea of the Republic of Croatia with the project. And I was against that project. So, when I evaluate with my modest knowledge that a project is contrary and can contribute to the violation of the biodiversity of the Adriatic Sea and its pollution, then I am against this project, as I am now reading from what has been said through the study and through the solution of the acceptability of the construction and setting of this LNG terminal that no biodiversity and pollution of the Kvarner environment and that part of the island of Krk has been questioned. I believe that from a visual aspect today in Krk where there are more energy plants that represent the impact in this area of the Krk environment than it would be a floating terminal or that JANAF is this oil terminal in JANAF, is it a refinery... , is it a complete shipbuilding port of Viktor Lenac etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that from that point of view when we talk about this visual impact on the environment, the project itself was much more acceptable. And when we talk about this bunker that was spoken of by fellow Mrsic, which will be built on the Zagreb coast of Rijeka, so he is another one, he is an additional argument to build a floating LNG terminal. This little bunker, as it is, which will be built on the Zagreb coast will represent the step of the Republic of Croatia without speaking to the port of Rijeka. The international maritime organisation has adopted one of its strategic objectives, which is that by the end of 2030, the emissions of greenhouse gases produced by ships of all the world’s merchant navy must be reduced by 50% and thus guided by the use of ingested natural gas. And because of this, many ports in the world are already building such small bunkers, Col. Mrsic, which will allow the filling of the tanks of these large ships, which will be transferred from a shed of oil or heavy fuel to this much more acceptable ecologically clean way or fuel, and that will allow ships arriving in Rijeka, which will use this type of fuel in order to be charged in Rijeka in the future, and the fact is also that by bringing them to the Zagreb coast of natural gas through, you yourself said, wagons, trains, these modes of transport will be able to distribute this type of fuel where we can't do that to pipelines or gas pipelines that will leave this terminal. Therefore, I agree that it is good to take care of and preserve the natural environment, but the fact is this is how the terminal will contribute to economic development and Croatia, and certainly there will be one additional way of diversifying Croatia's natural gas supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84077	Thank you. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. He is the first respected representative of Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84078	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, first of all, congratulations for reporting for the debate. Either you're brave, or they made you do it anyway. You're the only HDZ man to report for the debate today, so you should appreciate it. You've shown that a lot of things you know, you've attacked a little bit more than you've talked about the law, but when you're well directed, and you know that environmental impact study isn't really a valid document. So he's in some way both illegal and bad, and why? Because it is not in line with the spatial plan of the Imagination or the PGG, it is not a complete document, it is not professionally justified, it does not comply with the directive, it has not implemented the selection process of the most favourable location, it violates the Environmental Protection Act, it calls for documents that did not exist, such as narrative studies, it calls for standards that are not valid, it calls for documents that are not available to the public or the committee that adopted the study. Well, you've been the minister, this resort, should be close to you, so please tell me, do you know that this study isn't legal? If that question is too difficult for you, then tell me why you're going in such an emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84079	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the study was shown by a commission in which there were 16 members, as far as I can tell, I think you respected colleagues, Jerkovic, very well know that of them 16, two votes against, were the voice of the County of the Primorje Mountain and the municipality of Omisalj. All other experts, who participated in the commission's work, were obvious and gave a positive assessment for this terminal. Therefore, I did not participate in the work of this committee, I said that I was not even professional, that I could evaluate it, but, from this solution that was written, which was mentioned during the morning and Mr. Minister, it was established and it was shown that it was acceptable from the point of view of environmental protection. As for my courage, speaking for the club, as far as I can tell, the club is, in the name of the club, Mr Horvat has already given his assessment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84081	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84082	A colleague of Bačić, one thing is to bring some kind of state spatial plan and ignore the spatial plans and units of local self-government, when it is in the national interest, to for example. build a road. And it's a whole other thing, not to respect the local plans, so that the people of Omis would be poisoned with varicella and chlorine. And that's exactly what you're getting ready for. To poison citizens with chlorine and varicine, because, why, so that one of you, from HDZ, could earn on it, as always. But, Mr. Bacic, I'm looking into your eyes when in 3.4.5 years, some index or some telegram is going to take the facts out, as it is today, of what the HDZ is doing and how it's doing. Don't talk like Plenkovic, I didn't know anything. I warned you, so now you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84083	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84084	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Stazić, on whether or not it is a strategic project, defines the Law on Strategic Investment Projects and a list based on the law is defined and on that list is the project. Therefore, it is not my judgment or your judgment, whether it is or not, but according to conditions, which it must satisfy. Here the project has been declared strategic... and as for who will earn, how much, in the same way, I can ask you the question, who earned the unnecessary studies, about monetization of Croatian roads, which is paid 50 million, and, as you well know, these roads are not privatised. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Whoever earned from the study of the privatisation of HPB, you know that it was not finished either, who earned on the possible privatisation of the ACI that was not conducted in many other studies, which were done at the time of your government, and the rest are dead letters on paper, no one realised them, and no one holds them anymore, and they gave up, and it was paid anyway I said yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84085	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84086	Dear colleague Bacic, today we are witnessing something that simply a man could not believe if he had been here a few years ago. On the other hand, the argument for LNG for a strategic project came here. It was precisely by the Primorje mountain mayor, Mr. Komadina, in 2010, that he advocated not to be land-based, but to be a LNG terminal. And if there's something we want to do to make some kind of craftsmanship, then cloud the public, we heard earlier, Mr. Mrsic, when he mentioned these ships. But we didn't mention here that it was precisely in the process of obtaining a building permit, the main gas pipeline of Zlobin, Omisalj, precisely for the purpose of gasification of the entire island of Krk. Connecting to Pula-Karlovac's master gas, which was also the country's strategic investment. And that's one circulatory system of this country, in which we can consider further development of the Lordships. We're not talking about who, whose interest were represented by Milanovic's government, Russian or American, is this where the question is, who are we doing it for? It's your debate going in that direction and there's a public eye to open, who's when and how.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84087	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Klaric, here I have a statement from Primorje Goranski Mayor, who, at the government level for the first time, spoke about the construction of a floating LNG terminal, said the government did well in this project, in terms of defining the location and seeking a decision on the realization by a possible investor. The floating terminal isn't some... with a large LNG terminal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I would agree here with Mr. Komadin, I absolutely agree with him now and I argue that this floating terminal, for the first few years, is as the first phase of building a complete terminal more affordable and that there is no problem that its construction and its realization and use of that terminal would be more acceptable to the space that I have read and found in the study itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84089	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84090	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Bacic. You remember the clay factory in Ovrovec? It was also the strategic project of the former state, you know how it ended, and when we talk about the LNG terminal, what I keep asking the question, is that what we need? We don't seem to need it, but we're under pressure from certain circles, at this point America simply wants to push the Russians out of Croatia and simply don't use Russian gas. It's clear that strategic that we have a pipeline on the island of Krk is something that should be, but gas will come from some other countries, it doesn't have to come through LNG terminals, right? Therefore, on the other hand, the stress test has shown that Croatia is not at risk if gas deliveries from Russia are discontinued. And as for this freight substation in Rijeka, how many ships will be using incinerated gas? In 10 years, there may be 25, 30% of them, don't expect to be 100% of the ships that use the fuel incinerated gas, and building another substation means the cost of building a terminal so that the floating one will be much higher than encumbered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84091	Thank you, thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You are telling me that this project can be strategic when it is not justified, and you have raised your hands as a member of the Government to include it on the list of strategic projects in the Republic of Croatia. I don't get it, you ask me, and you decide. And as for this second piece of work you're talking about, about the construction of that bunker station on the Zagreb coast, I said that within 10 years, it will have to be reduced by 50% of the greenhouse gas emissions of all merchant Navy ships in the world. And today, not Rijeka, but every more serious port open to public traffic is already thinking, accessing and already building similar bunker stations to allow filling ships with this kind of fuel, and I think it's a smart decision by Rijeka. Otherwise I spend and is an integral part of the entire project of building this terminal, so it is not an extra cost, but it enters into the realization of the entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84093	Replication away, good. Thank you. Mr. Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84094	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, today we're a little surprised by a fellow SDP, they don't have a single syncope, they have a collective syncope today and they've all forgotten that it's the first... The floating terminal was, and that's Mayor Zlatko... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 2010 [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Even an environmental activist who was here today stood strong for the floating terminal. In 2015, Milanovic's government's mandate ends at a meeting in Schladming, Zoran Milanovic says we are part of the EU, and our most important strategic project to help the EU is to build LNG on the island of Krk. And today they say we don't know anything, we forgot everything, because everything that's allowed to the party is not for anyone in Croatia. They can forget everything, they can go beyond anything, but when you remind them, then what do we do now? So they supported everything, and now they're against something they support, and as they call it, let them explain it best.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84095	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84096	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I understand the inhabitants and islanders of Krk, therefore, understand their concerns about the project that is public, especially in the public of the coastal-goran County, which is extremely dangerous for this area of the sea and the environment of the island of Krk, but I do not understand us politicians or not politicians who until 2 years ago have claimed that this is a great project, that this project should be supported, and today for purely political reasons, only additional riots among those people who would have faithfully accepted that such a political campaign is not raised to this level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84097	Thank you, too. The last replica, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84098	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, colleague Bačić, here I really admire how much energy you spend and you have the strength to fight for something even you don't believe because you used to be against LNG, and now you're for LNG. The other side was in, now it's against. Here we were neither for, nor against, and we think that's going to be an environmental problem definitely. And as for clean air, fuel for ships that will be ingested gas, and I don't know what, here's what, I've been driving on gas for 12 years with my car and every year, because of the law I've been punished by 600 kuna compared to others on the registration because I'm driving on gas, so try to change something here and get rid of that story. And as for LNG, first reading, emergency procedure, all this force that's used to push it through is kind of suspicious, I'm sorry, but that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84099	Thank you very much. Let's move on, yeah, excuse me. The answer to Mr. Bacic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84100	You say you're not in or out. And then you even answer the word, I don't get it? What did you say? I am not an environmental expert, so I try and hear and listen to what those who know it say, those who know it in Croatia that the Ministry has determined that from the aspect of environmental protection it will not have the construction of this and the existence of a terminal, will not have a negative impact on the environment, i.e. it has the extent to which it is acceptable to preserve that environment. I was a member of the government, and now I'm part of the ruling majority that is on another project, which she found would be negative and that would have a bad environmental impact, she gave up on it. Therefore, the same government, the same ruling majority if today were by the commission that was defined for it, had determined that this project was unacceptable, we would have rejected it. And I stand behind it defending my profession, not by saying goodbye to anyone. That's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84101	Thank you. Now, Mr. Lenart was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's see what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84102	Dear Vice-President, Article 238 demeaning of MPs. Well, colleague Bacic, if you didn't listen well. We're definitely against it, and we're gonna be against LNG and we're not gonna change our minds unlike you and you, if you're that knowledge, and you said you were ignorant, so teach us a little bit. [[/Intruder Radin: No, no.]] You can give me a warning... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84103	No, I won't give you a warning, but you know you deserve it. Let's move on. I've never given you one before, so that would be the first time I've given you a warning, so it's the first time I've said goodbye. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 4:00 A.M.]] 1600 hours. Mr. Stjepan Curaj, individual debate. Here you go, Mr. Curray.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84105	Thank you, Vice President. So, in front of us all day debate, a little bit now a lot of things are happening over and over again, so I'd try to concentrate on what's most important in fact. We are talking about an investment of 250m euros. Almost half of that EU grants. But we're masters. When you need rabbits in the economy in jobs, in calling on investment, then we're all full, Vice President, please, Vice President, please a little...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84106	Please, nice. Please, please. Excuse me, Mr. Curaj, Mr. Miranda, Mr. Klisovic, Mr. Curaj cannot concentrate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84107	I don't know if I'm getting them or if you're making a deal with each other. I don't want to listen to what you're saying, but I can't help overhearing. All right. I say, our mouths are full of investments, jobs, GDP, everything. But when it comes to a concrete, concrete solution, then we are always masters of why not. Either transfer to a commission or to someone else, a shuttle and administration, licenses, and then we're surprised when we get a bussines scale back, so we're going down, so we say nothing's wrong again, see how slow they are, troms, we're not doing anything, we're not doing anything, etc., etc. So that's one aspect of this as well as any other investment that should always be welcomed. Of course, we must neither head through the wall nor ignore everything that matters. Environmental protection is always important and not only as such, whether it is now half degree or sea level colder or not, or whether it will mean something for the eco system, but also for what it will mean for the wider economic picture. The colleagues mentioned Krk as one pearl touristic and I agree. Whoever tries and goes there will know that prices are far higher than most, at most marine destinations, we're not talking about real estate prices. But that tells me that existing terminals that they have, and we've had in the last few years and building permits for capacity expansion, for derivatives and for oil on the terminal itself and... And everything's fine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which means more capacity, more ships, everything they carry, more risk. And we don't need to be against it, but we should always strive for that risk to be minimal, controlled, and for the benefit of all regarding the project itself. And by that logic today, if we were here talking about an oil terminal in Omislim, we'd all be against it. Ballast waters, ships, risks etc., etc. What does that mean? So we're against the Rijeka Refinery? Shall we turn these people off and send them home? Suckers, which we already fight to preserve. Against cheaper derivatives, security supplies. So today with that logic we would be here against the JANAF terminal in Krk. Is he a much bigger risk than what we're talking about today? Both for the environment and for the visor, aesthetics and tourism and everything else. But it works. Under the maximum possible protection mechanisms that exist, state-of-the-art. I mentioned earlier today in the debate, so there's a whole cove when it gets in, when the ship lands, the entire bay is covered with an air curtain that in the case, don't give God something to stand out and a liter of something, raises the sea level by one meter and there's nowhere else to go. But no one wants that to happen and of course it's always a danger. Well, I mentioned earlier, everyone would give me cheap electricity, affordable, cheap, but no one would be near the substation, no one would get a power line near his house. God forbid thermal power plants, nuclear power plants, no one wants that. The question is always forever, there's no Mr. Bull here, around cell phones. Everyone would give me a signal, everybody would give me a cheap phone, but nobody would see that antenna. These are some of the risks that exist, which we don't need to close our eyes, but that we need to control and bring to a minimum, even here. Someone says cheaper on-shore. I didn't see that. According to those land calculations, with more capacity or more, it's more expensive. And here it is predicted in this Law on two occasions that this land is going if there is a great interest or need. And that's all there is to it. Security of supply, diversion. As the people say, we don't put all our eggs in the same basket. We can't depend on others all the time. The more independent we are, the more important we are, the more we can give our citizens, the more benefits citizens have. How for everything, cheaper, safer, so God forbid anything in Ukraine, Russia, a supply route that goes with gas to welcome winter, to close the tentacles, then who's to blame? Then where are we gonna get gas? At what price? They watch the citizens freeze. That's all the stuff we've got. Is that what it costs? It's worth it. We must be prepared and as a state to pay, but then we must be able to charge it well. Because it's not just a project for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, it's a project of broader and geopolitical importance, so if we were looking at, if I knew earlier, I would have called. If we look at everything that means supply routes in Europe. We need to think long term. I'm here, I must admit, I've heard good debates, concrete discussions that need to be respected, projected. A colleague, Dobrović, also from MOST, who initiated this very part to go off-shore, on floating, discussed these ways of how the very way and cooling and regasification is best for the environment that is acceptable and that is something to think about. It's not here in the law. This law deals with concessions, deals with how to run, doesn't deal with technology itself. Which doesn't mean that we can't take certain measures through the Ministry, through the competent authorities to ensure that it works according to maximum standards. I don't think anyone has, can't be against or have anything to do with respect to maximum standards. Finally, Europe has already given us some of the funds, when we talk about urgency, to make use of these funds, to launch the project earlier, should have. We all know that we are also determined by the government crisis and everything that it has brought, and that is why this has suffered, and therefore another reason and political stability that is always a prerequisite for projects like this to be implemented and to withdraw funds not only for this, but also for a number of other projects. That's why we need this framework, and I think even this proposal, which is decided in the Law, that concession fee is also going to 2/3 to the local and third regional self-government units in some way valorizing their, let's say, opportunities or troubles that might arise from this. Al, I'm saying we have a study where they estimate there's no significant environmental impact, but that doesn't mean we can take it lightly. There's already a oil terminal there, a number of tankers coming, leaving. I just want to think that we here today to talk about it 30 years ago, 20-30 years ago when it was being built, to say no and close the word, the mammal and all... in the INA end line and all related to that pipeline or pipeline. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here we have gas that is green energy, renewable in terms of thinking, acceptable to everyone, well not renewable in terms of wind and water, but it belongs to that group, and I think we need to be aware that in 5 to 10 years, no one can guarantee what will be in energy and opportunities both in the world and in Europe, and especially in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we have to make sure. And I say once again, someone says the project is invaluable, it won't be used. On the other hand, he says it'll pollute. So if it won't be useful, it won't even have an impact on the environment then. It can't be both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84108	Thank you very much. Mr. Bully was looking for a replica. You'd best wear this plate in your pocket because as soon as you got inside, you asked for a replica. Is Romana the first? And I'm sorry, Mr. Bull. It's Romana first. Romana Jerkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84109	Thank you very much. Col. Curaj, since you are so often used as a strategic word today, the HDZ strategic coalition partner, you may be able to answer the question that many have asked today, but the answer is neither from Minister Coric, nor from State Secretary, nor from counterpart Branko Bačić, nor from anyone. Perhaps you know why this law breaks over its knees, why we bring it into emergency procedures, why we can't give you more time, why not devote more conversation, dialogue and attention to the local community, why urgency, why not second or third reading, at least second reading, why fellow? You must know that as a strategic coalition partner.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84110	Answer, Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84111	Thank you. Dear colleagues Jerkovic, so what they were communicating with me, I think here and on committees, because it's precisely an emergency procedure because in December the contract was signed, or... with the European Commission where certain obligations have taken place, where time is running out for us to use that money and that we know that, and we are masters, I said that again, how to postpone something, postpone, make, establish a commission, put it back on and never do anything, and we're all like for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can accept it as an explanation if for the past five years we and you have been together for that strategic project to be in one way or another, we agreed when we were together on land, but colleagues said in the meantime that it would be better on water. We accept that, too, just to get that security for our citizens and make the most of it? 160 million euros which is... I've been assigned and I've heard 16 million more about the paperwork, etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that's why... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84112	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84113	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on you, Vice President, but I heard here in the hallway that he was commenting on me outside of the subject of colleague Curaj, that he was talking about teleopers, base stations, so he just told him briefly. The biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia in teleoperators is in the Republic of Croatia, over 40%, which is not available in their countries. What we need to ask Croatia for from teleoperators, we should ask them to behave the way they behave in their home countries, as Tele2 behaves in Sweden or Telekom as it behaves in Germany. Useful license, building permit, consent, that's what they need in the Republic of Croatia, not to let them come to their senses disrupting spaces, cultural goods. There's a huge base station in the Knin Fortress, an antenna pillar, that's what I'm talking about. That we have the same conditions as in their country. And you've been replicating me here, not warning you off the topic of the chairmanship, that I'm against something. No, just to respect the law the same in the Republic of Croatia as where Tele2 is in Sweden, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84114	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Churay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84115	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bull, you weren't, so you didn't understand the context in which I said. So, I was saying that we would all like cheap electricity and available, but nobody would like to be next to a trafo station or a power line. We'd all like to have a signal good for a cell phone and a cheap one, but no one would like to be next to that antenna. I agreed with you that no one wants that antenna to look at her. So I didn't argue at all about how it should be arranged. But I'm talking about a way of thinking. We'd all like something, we'd all like something, and we'd enjoy some benefits, but when it comes to our door, no one would want it. And that's how it's supposed to be seen, admitted to both rights. But for those of you who are suffering from something to settle it, make up for it, and come down to a minimum because it's not civilizational progress to go backwards but forward, but controlled and safe for all of our citizens. And that's where we can always agree. I'm just saying, as a way of thinking, that comparison was used, and you're a great advocate, so I took advantage of you and here, it can go to your credit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84116	Thank you very much. Now it is Mr. Josko Klisovic who has an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84117	Thank you very much, Vice President. A lot has been said today about this project in the context of a strategic project, whether or not it is. In my opinion, the LNG terminal in Krk is a strategic project, both for the EU and for the Republic of Croatia. But when I say LNG terminal then I mean primarily the one built on land, which should be built, not this floating one. In fact, the Republic of Croatia is an EU member and should contribute as such to the EU's energy security and independence. We contribute that as a member in three ways. One way is to use its own gas reserves in the Adriatic, which also showed a scan of the Adriatic Sea, a probe from Spectrum company, as well as on land, especially in Slavonia. We also contribute to the future construction of the Adriatic-Ionian gas pipeline, which should connect the Republic of Croatia with the TAP pipeline, which goes all the way to Azerbaijan from where large quantities of gas for the European market would alternatively be drawn to the Russian market. The Republic of Croatia would also use that pipeline to incriminate very large revenues from the gas passage through its territory, and it would enter Dubrovnik, and go up to the White monastery for the market further and Ukraine and Hungary and Slovakia, or go to... in Austria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the Republic of Croatia participates in European energy security through three essential elements. Through the LNG terminal on Krk, through... A pipeline that would bring Asian gas to Europe and through its own gas reserves that are beyond our own needs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if we have, if we are part of a wider story, then of course such a project must be in both the national interest of the Republic of Croatia and in our strategic interest, the SDP government has qualified it as such and placed it on the list of strategic investments. Because if the LNG terminal will benefit from both Hungarians and Serbs and Ukrainians, or I don't know, Austrians, Slovenians and so on during the emergency period Croatia will reach for the Austrian... And there take certain amounts of gas if there's a shortage on our market for any reason. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if we are part of a wider body, a wider political mechanism such as the EU, then we must look at a small picture and look beyond. But all of this doesn't justify this project being forced. To go completely past will or past intensive consultations with representatives of local administration and self-government. So no government can rape things to this extent without explaining to the local self - administration why it is going and what opportunities it is. And the local self-government asks quite logical questions and it is not that it is completely opposed to LNG, but only to that version that is equal to the ship or floating LNG. On the other hand, local self-government understands the strategic importance of this project and advocates LNG on land. Therefore, let us not judge the wrong views of local self-government, and in this context it itself has made a spatial plan, the Omisalj municipality, which provides for LNG on land. They have a rightful location permit for this, they have calculated financially that it is more profitable, it is also envisaged to engage in this case, Croatian labour forces and not just foreign ones. The very cost-effectiveness of LNG is not a key issue precisely because it is a strategic facility that should contribute to security and Croatia, as well as neighbouring EU member states, including those who are candidates and will enter, in the event of a particular energy crisis. And therefore the economic segment, the economic criterion is not the only criterion that we need to apply to the assessment of this project. But the very cost-effectiveness, the government claims to be a cheaper LNG that's floating. But that's not the case, because it compares LNG capacity of 2.5 BSM to the land of 6 BSM originally designed for construction. But if LNG's capacities are equal to, 2-2 or 2.5-2.5 BSM, then we see that it's pretty much the same price. That it can be built faster says the government, or put into function the one that is floating. And that's doubtful. If we hadn't wasted this much time on a variety of stories and changing priorities from land to floating, then the mainland might have already been operational. Therefore, it does not stand. As a third argument says this is a floating LNG's first stage. Phase two is land. Now, of course, the legitimate question, logically, is the question of every citizen, not just the people of Krk, Omis or PGG, so what is the temporary or first phase that lasts 99 years because the concession is 99 years old? Or what's the first phase that lasts 10 years? Or has HERA accounted for a price based on 20 years? There's obviously something not clear, there's something going on. When we talk about the viability of a floating LNG, it should be said that it is not only a ship that will be anchored there in Omislje, it is also a tanker that will transport that gas to the Rijeka petrochemical port, so another reception terminal needs to make a new one, so there it needs to build a complete infrastructure that will transfer that gas to motor tanks or trains that are qualified to transport and drive gas. So it's a lot more than one ship that you'll anchor in the imagination itself. When we talk about the concession that is given, it is said that it will be given to a company owned by HEP and Plinar, companies that we have heard may go to privatisation. Now that you're giving one of these jobs and the possibility of paying a fee for potentially inconclusive business to that company, then someone's going to make it look like some future owners are good money, and given the experience so far with different groups including the Borg group, that's certainly giving birth to doubt. In addition, why should Croatian citizens only pay that fee for the non-performing business of such a company? When the entire terminal was floating, and I stand for land, in the economic and energy security interests of the entire EU, and then it is not really fair that its inability is paid only by Croatian citizens, then we should find solutions for the EU to cover this amount that will be up to the level of profitability because this project is primarily an important strategic for the EU as an alternative source of gas supply to the EU and not only Croatia, because we have heard that Croatia has enough gas for itself. As for the urgency of the law, I also object that he is going through an emergency procedure as this points to exactly what counterpart Zmajlovic said, that the whole project was being run very badly and that he now wants to speed up without things sitting properly in place and in order to make use of EU funds. We knew that Europe would finance this project, it was announced in one part of course, about 102 million euros long ago, but we also knew that it would finance it precisely because it is inert and it is a strategic project for the EU. So, the story should be built on this and the government's management of the project has been sloppy in the last two years, so here we have here as a consequence of an emergency procedure. And I, as a representative in this House, ask that this law go into second reading and, in the meantime, ensure intensive communication with local self-government in order to find the best and closest solution to building LNG terminals on land. There's so much for now, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84118	Thank you very much. Mr. Kirin has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84119	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Dear Representative Klisovic, listening to your presentation or lecture, as you wish, I understand that you are for the greatest energy independence of Croatia and of course that the link with the EU and the transport of gas goes through Croatia. But you know that 16m euros from the EU have been received, or funds have been opened for the construction of the connection work of the gas pipeline. About 2.6 billion cubic metres of gas can be transported by a gas pipeline but I can't figure it out after all your lecture, why are you so against the floating terminal because just so the vice presidents don't stop me, why? Because we know that there are several ways to make gasification of the liquid part of the gas and this is possible with a floating terminal to build one thermopower plant that is used to treat gas, convert it into a gas-state and can be used for other purposes. Representative Jovanovic also mentioned, of course, the thermal power plant that is located...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84120	Time Mr. Kirin, time. And my fault, I gave you half a minute more, my fault. ... Come on, let's take it because you're from Rijeka but I'll take it from you next time because there are others from Rijeka. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Answer, please, you have half a minute more right to answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84121	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well very clearly, I object for environmental reasons because the temperature will have to go down to 7% which will affect the flora and fauna in the sea. Chlorine will also be used, therefore, are some ecological things. Economically, if we're going to an LNG terminal investment, so why go to two terminals? First floating and then on land? Well, double the cost. Let's go to one, the one on land, the infrastructure that will be minimum 40 years in circulation. So I recognize the importance and strategic significance of this terminal, but I say in our constant wandering, we were first on the mainland, so we switched to this sea. It doesn't make sense, we waste time, we lose energy, we lose money. When we decide it's a strategic interest, if it's a strategic interest terminal on land, we go from the first to the last moment dealing with it, not on the way to change things and how? With the address of some foreign partners who have their own economic interests in it all. And that's the problem. Again, we are losing what is in the best interest of the Republic of Croatia and joining in the wider interests, in this case, the EU, because I am in favour of Croatia contributing to European security in energy terms, as well as to Europe, if Croatia comes into the energy crisis and that is why we need that network of gas, connecting with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84122	Thank you. You see, Mr. Klisovic, 25 seconds extra, but I don't think that's going to be the rule, that was the exception. ... And now it is up to Mrs Ines Strenja-Linić to have an individual debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just as long as it takes, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84123	You've already taken 10 seconds away from me. Dear Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry. I'm going to repeat what maybe nobody read today, and that's a sea strategy. So this is the Marine Strategy Framework Directive adopted in the European Parliament in June 2008 on establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine policy and it is a legal instrument for the European Community for the protection of the sea. Its objective, therefore, is to achieve or maintain a good situation in the marine environment, no later than 2020 and must develop a strategy for its marine waters that would lead to the application of the action programme to achieve good conditions in the marine environment. Its objectives, therefore, are to protect and preserve the marine environment, prevent its collapse, or, if feasible, restore marine ecosystems in areas affected by adverse effects. IB. prevention and reduction of entry into the marine environment in order to gradually remove pollution and ensure that there are no significant consequences, no dangers, for marine biodiversity, marine eco-systems, human health and legitimate use of the sea. That's what we're talking about today. So I believe that LNG is a project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia and while MOST was in government, we have made efforts to identify the project in the EU and to grant it co-financing as such, because as we could hear today several times, the SDP Government and HDZ Government believe that this project is strategic, that it is important for our country's energy independence, is a new supply direction and offers security of energy supply. So this is the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. Natural gas, as most often fossil fuel, will be a very important energy for reducing pollution from the transport sector through the rapid replacement of heavy fuel. This is part of the total energy transition into a low carbon society based on renewable energy sources. It is therefore important to provide another supply route for this energy supply. Floating LNG was a good solution as the first phase of rapid realization and lower required capacity at the moment. However, we believe that natural gas infused technology should be limited exclusively to a solution with a closed cycle without the use of sea and chlorine. And this is precisely our amendment, which is one of our amendments that we have proposed, that the technology that uses seawater and chlorine-based biocides poses too much risk to the closed and gas Kvarner Gulf, very sensitive to anthropogenic pressure, so with the aim of removing harmful environmental impact, the infancy technology must be in a closed cycle without using sea water and chlorine. This is our condition to uphold this law. So while an accepted environmental impact study allows for the use of chloro-based marine water and biocidal technology, we believe that such technology poses too much risk to the closed gas Kvarner Bay. So we propose an amendment that limits technological solutions exclusively to those that exclude such an option. It is important to highlight the already existing burden on the environment of Rijeka and the Bay of Bakar, relatively shallow means the closed aquarium, very sensitive to the anthropogenic pressure that will further increase with this LNG terminal. It is therefore very important to introduce the so - called so - called. green technology, closed circle without the use of chlorine and seawater in the process of heating the incinerated gas. Therefore, the duration of the concession period, the law was the basis for giving a maritime goods to a 99-year concession, as others have noted, is unclear on the basis of which criteria the concession was estimated to be necessary for such a long period and whether it will still go into a regular concession procedure that all other concessionaries of different areas in Croatia will have to pass. In 2017, the Paris Climate Change Agreement, which envisions the transition to a low-carbon economy, was ratified, while the duration of concession on a project covering gas infrastructure, i.e. fossil fuel for 99 years, is contrary to this international and legally binding agreement. So Amendment number 2 of the MOST, we propose a reduction of the concession period from 99 to 40 years which is unacceptablely due to the fact that the second phase of the LNG terminal is planning to move to land buildings. It's also a condition to uphold this law. And the assessment, in the draft law, there are no provisions on liability and damage to the environment and nature. In the preparation of the first environmental impact study in 2008, in addition to the concession, which is now incorporated into the draft law, it was also proposed to introduce an eco-innovation, requiring an amendment to the environmental law, land use charges for LNG terminal accommodation, such as compensation for the installation of manufactured electricity plants, which required the amendment of the law on the gas market, water protection, the refrigeration of the cold sea into the aquarium, which requires an amendment of the Law on the financing of the water economy, the compensation of municipal contributions and the communal compensation for the accompanying evacuation gas pipelines, which requires an amendment to the Law on the municipal economy. Therefore, it should not be pointed out in particular that the operation of storage and enforcement of the UPP represents a dangerous activity that can cause major adverse consequences, both human and property and the environment. Specific systems outside the voice responsibilities applicable, not only to ships and others, shall apply only to ships and other water facilities, liability for damage caused by a floating object, in the absence of specific regulations, shall be assessed under general provisions of the compensation law, however, the question of whether such a system is adequate for the assessment of such visions shall be raised. Furthermore, the law should provide mandatory insurance for such liability up to a certain amount. In this way, potential damages are allowed to file a direct claim against insurance, and on the other hand, insurance is required by insurance companies to comply with all safety standards and to ensure a significant role in the prevention of damages. So you should have clearly prescribed both decommissioning and damage and responsibility. Something about an emergency procedure, about that, already said, briefly, e-consultation and this urgent procedure of this law in the light of the biggest crisis of the Croatian government is absolutely inappropriate, I don't think you should have put that on the table right now. And since I don't have much time yet, I'd like to say, finally, it was particularly interesting that you were completely ignoring the local community, and according to this, our 3 amendments that we consider that this fee that you've anticipated is not enough for all the negativity that this project carries for the community. Our 3 amendments, which are a condition for us to support this law, are an increase in concession fees and thus an increase in local community income as explained in our amendment. So, I remind you that all the political parties, the County Assembly of the Primorian Mountain County, 14000 citizens who have signed an incentive against this project, I repeat, are a strategic project, but not in this form that you have proposed, this law, which has thus defined a huge set of our citizens, of thousands of them, who have gathered on the riverbed of members of all political parties clearly told not of this law, but of Croatia's energy independence that for other supply routes, but not of such a proposed floating terminal. Therefore, I personally cannot accept this law and I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84124	Thank you, too. We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Allen Prelec, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Davor Vlaovic, he's gone, he's losing his right, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic, go ahead. And that's final on behalf of the club, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84125	Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Allow a few more notes for the end of this debate, this time closely related to objections to the law itself. Therefore, the Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas constitutes a harsh violation of the Constitution, European directives and several applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia, such as the Law on Spatial Planning, the Law on Construction, the Law on concessions and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports. The floating LNG terminal is not in line with the spatial planning documentation of the Municipality of Omisalj and Primorje Goranj County, as no local and other conditions are prescribed for its implementation, which is a basic prerequisite for the issue of local and construction permits and for the award of concessions for the economic use of maritime goods. It therefore shows that this law fully avoids the implementation of the legal concession procedure and seeks to create conditions for the issue of the necessary acts for the implementation of the project. This law proposes to the company LNG Croatia d.o.o. A direct award of a concession on maritime goods for the construction and economic use of the terminal, thereby denying, among other things, the applicable law of the regulated implementation of the public tender procedure to be implemented in any event, the award of a concession for economic use. Such an early award of the concession excludes all economic operators, which fulfil the requirements, which violates one of the EU's fundamental principles, the principle of competition. The concession fee is prescribed by the Regulation on the concession procedure for maritime good. It states that for industrial ports, the permanent part of the fee is 2 kn per metre of maritime goods allocated, while the variable part is 2% of the bidder's income. Moreover, the regulation stipulates that, if the economic reasons justify it, an exceptional concession provider may modify the initial concession fees in relation to the regulation by law, a different and variable part of the fee, which is fixed at EUR 0,02 per megabyte per hour of gas delivered to the gas transport system, is prescribed. Furthermore, in the chapter of the basic issues to be regulated by law, the concession fee for maritime good is paid in favour of the unit of local, regional self-government and the state budget. Since units of local self-government are not units of regional self-government, as the legislator identifies them, it is not clear to whom these fees are actually paid. On top of this reasoning of the law, the members at the end of the proposal at the very least are both missing and lame. All of these indicate that this law, as a lex specialis, is not based on applicable relevant regulations and is contrary to the procedures guaranteed by the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It does not respect demographic procedures, the will of the people, or the ecological standard. It is rude to ignore the express opposition to this project by local and regional self-government, its citizens, expressed by a unanimous decision of the County Assembly, to carry out as much as 160... The discussion of environmental impact studies, through protests of 5,000 citizens and petitions signed by more than 15,000 citizens, which is carried out by... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Convention on the right to build on the participation of decision-making on environmental protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From all of this, it is clear that this law cannot be supported, that it is minimally possible to direct it to another reading and that in that second reading we come to a solution that will respect the views of local self - government. The municipality of Omisalj, Krk, the town of Rijeka, the Primorje Goran County, are not against the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, and we say clearly and loudly that we have a solution. We believe that here we should order that Croatia, the solution is the land LNG terminal. Why? Because it is in accordance with the spatial plan of the municipality of Omisalj and the Primorje Mountain County, because it has a powerful location permit, because it is more financially evaporative than the floating terminal, because it provides for the engagement of domestic construction operations, which has the resources to build it, because it foresees the employment of the domestic labour operator on the mainland and because it can be built as quickly as a floating terminal. Moreover, for this solution, there is an absolute political context and consensus of all parties at local and regional level. Respecting and respecting the strategic energy interests of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that the LNG terminal is the right solution for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84126	Thank you, too. We have the final word of Mr. Minister Coric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So distinguished MPs and MPs. In front of you is the LNG Terminal Act, or the Intended Gas Terminal. Today we had the opportunity to see an entire series of views on this project of strategic interest for the Republic of Croatia. The Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, indeed believes that the realisation of the LNG project on the island of Krk is of strategic interest both to the Republic of Croatia and to the EU of which we are a member. Why is that? Because this project of the Republic of Croatia contributes to the concept of diversification of supply routes of European gas or security of supply. The havaries that come from time to time and which appear just prove the necessity of realising alternative supply routes. The capacity of a floating LNG terminal on the island of Krk should be about 2.6 billion cubic metres, which is likely similar at the level of total gas consumption in the Republic of Croatia. It should also be borne in mind that, in view of such capacity, the total lease of LNG terminals is not a lease that they should have or should be applied only to legal persons in the Republic of Croatia but also to legal persons from countries that are north of us, so Central Europe. In this context, the value of LNG terminals should be observed through the economic aspect of building such a terminal. Its total cap or total capital costs should be around 250m euros. In this context, what is expected of such a terminal, what is expected of LNG terminals on the island of Krk to be a project that will pay off with its owners or investors. And it's unquestionable and something we insist on. What will this depend on and what will build LNG terminals on the island of Krk depend on? First of all, the potential lease we're going to testify about in the coming months. The first stage of this lease has passed, we enter the second, it will last until the end of July of this year and just as I said about the capacity of the lease will also depend on the future of this project. What about his environmental assumptions? By floating LNG in the opinion of the expert committee, it meets all environmental standards. What we had the opportunity to see in the past 6 to 7 months, above all at local public level was a continuing campaign against the construction of a floating LNG terminal on the island of Krk. Why is that? That should be witnessed by those who ran such a campaign. I believe she was completely unwarranted and not based on objective facts. A study that shows that this project does not bear the environmental risk that those who continuously emphasized the adverse consequences of the floating LNG terminal on the island of Krk simply said everything. The waist has spoken. As far as economic aspects are concerned, I've started something on this subject, let me confirm one more time. Positive economic externals of this project may have its holders. At this point, these are 100% or 100% of Plinacro’s share, respectively, of HEP. The tender for the purchase of the so-called so-called tender. The FSRU of a ship which has been going on and on and on 8 May of this year is available to potential stakeholders, means entering the activity and capital of the investor potential. On what level? At a level of 25 to a maximum of 49.9% and below 50%, respectively. What's the idea? The idea is that this terminal, i.e. this project, is financed by the assets of its owners through the credit line as well. The assumption of its functioning is to be profitable. I will point out once again, so the economic consequences of the city of Omisalj wear so-called. the rent or concession fee of one million kuna for PGG to refer to what you previously said 500 thousand kuna of that amount. Also through an additional fee the city of Omisalj should, on behalf of the fact that LNG terminal is located in their area, have another million kuna, so we're talking about two million kunas, we're talking about the 10% budget of the current city of Omis. Is this project in view of its position, and we could hear it today during some discussions, destroying, reducing the possibility of developing tourism in the city of Omis? I remind you that the location of a floating LNG terminal on the island of Krk is located in an industrial zone, where DINA Petrochem is located, in the area where JANAF warehouses are located. So we can't talk about the development of tourism in that exact location. So all those ideas that this project as such destroys the local community, that it carries an extraordinary risk of pollution that has been attempted to impose and is being imposed in the media in recent months, unfortunately not true. I would like the opposition to bear in mind the fact that it is aware of the strategic interest of building LNG terminals on the island of Krk previously met facts and then thus communicated. The ship's age, therefore, is the same tender for the purchase of a ship that is currently going on, stipulates that this ship can be as old as 11 years old, that the regasification unit can be 12 months old, so we're talking about such risks. We're not talking about a ship that's older than F16, we're not talking about a ship that's 47 years old, no, unfortunately that's not true. I wish you'd been right with any of those thesiss so I'd be here in this final word on this subject to blush that I have to hide some information from you who went with these semi-informations. Unfortunately, that's not true. Communication with an interested public on the subject of this Act was as much as possible from the perspective of the Ministry, which, as I said, gives a final assessment of the impact or acceptability of the environmental impact of such a project. By the time the expert committee decided, it was minimal. In recent months we have presented this project, or we are trying to present what this project is carrying. So what's he wearing? I will repeat again first of all to the Croatian public. It holds a diversification of supply routes in the Republic of Croatia, avoiding situations such as the one that took place in Italy last 12 months, bearing Croatia's drawing on Europe's energy infrastructure map, which is not irrelevant. It's the first such project to achieve it. It carries economic benefits for investors, carries a number of jobs, also carries certain benefits for the local community. Why is he going through an emergency procedure? So, the completion of this project, its full realization must follow by half of 2020 if we want to compete with this project on an energy map or in Europe's energy policy on gas supply over the next 10 years. The very simple reasons why and why we keep this project as such important and why we want this project to start with realisation as soon as possible. I hope that the debate is this topic, that the discussions on this topic are on both sides of the assembly. They were in one, I think. At least that's the impression we got, which is that we are aware of the fact that the project of building LNG terminals on Krk is something that is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia. However, I also hope that you realize that a land terminal project that at one point dropped several years ago, which carries capital costs about 50% higher than a floating terminal, is not a project that can satisfy economic rentability. If you'd gone into numbers, you'd know that. A floating terminal project at the level, I said, capital costs of around 250m euros can do that. Of course, assuming you're renting capacity. Whether these capacities will be leased, we'll see, as I said, in the coming months. The countries above us, the countries around us spend a lot more gas at this moment than the Republic of Croatia. One Italy about 80 billion cubic metres, Hungary between 11 billion and 12 billion, Ukraine about 30 billion cubic metres. These are markets that usually feed their needs on gas from one source, most often. So these are markets which, in their energy policies as well as the Republic of Croatia, at least those which are EU members are heading towards the so-called. energy diversification, i.e. diversification of supply routes. The term that was probably used very often here, however, is a term which, in itself, paints the energy policy of Europe at the moment, i.e.... Even the Republic of [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're part of Europe, we go for it. I wouldn't last any longer, taking your time with some of the facts that I highlighted here this morning, but I believe once again that before there comes a vote on this law, you who are against adopting such a law and allowing us to launch one of I would say, more significant investments in the Republic in the last 10 years. Aside from the Peljega Bridge, which involves a huge step towards transport infrastructure. Someone said today about LNG in Croatia has been talking since '95. For years, if I'm not mistaken. I've heard of information to be told even a little longer. So this is really one of the projects that Croatia can very much mean in energy terms and I don't see what are the exact negative moments that should lead or put into the first plan ahead of this project. Unfortunately, in today's debate, we have not heard of accurate data, indicators of this matter. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84128	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Six replicas. The first replica has Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84129	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, so I'm curious specifically whether you received warnings from the EU that this project should not be implemented with violence against the local community, you gave the phone to whom you spoke and if so, which is why you ignored those warnings. So it's obvious that you're working against the interests of citizens in whose area this floating LNG rises and doesn't understand why, therefore, such aggression, which is why such incompetence, which is why there's little more dialogue and little more understanding. So here, on the other hand, to answer this question about suggestions from Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84130	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84131	Mr. Bunjac, thank you very much for this replica. So the expression you used, the insolence if I'm not mistaken, I'd actually say I'm a little surprised, but let's just say it's expected of you. What I would certainly like to emphasise is the fact that this is a strategic project, i.e. this strategic project should be seen in the context of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so over 4 million of our inhabitants and all their gas supplies. As for the local community, I stressed in my presentation this morning that at the initial stage unfortunately communication with the local community could not have been more intense. On several occasions, I tried to talk to the Commissioner or the Commissioner about this subject. It was not particularly successful that it was visible from her steps in the media. Insomnia no, objectivity absolutely yes. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84132	The second line has Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84133	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister and you pointed out that communication with the interested public is a prerequisite for the good implementation of these and all strategic projects. That's what Mrs... Director of LNG terminal Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It took a step further and said that all these civil society associations, the Green Action and other ecological associations are welcome in the process and that a solution should be found in a constructive dialogue. And there are from these 15,000 signatures, from the dissatisfaction of the Omisalj municipality, the coastal-goran County, a series of evidence that this communication was not good, you said so yourself. So give him a chance to go to the second round, to the second reading, so that those inconsistencies may be resolved. Especially when it comes to environmental problems where there are structrums in the profession because the environmental study, for example, of Slavonski Brod, is disputed, is the same as Plinacro Crodux and others, what did they do? [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] We've polluted the water, and today we don't know why. People are afraid it's gonna happen to the sea. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84134	Mr. Vlaovic, thank you. Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vlaovic, for your question. So I would not simply put into a flat position in the Omislje and the ecological moment of study that was done on this topic, the potential ecological repercussion of the realization of this project with the situation in Slavonski Brod. That's one thing. The other thing, maybe you know something I don't, since I don't have the information that the investigation, there was a MUP, any state's attorney's office, has shown that water pollution in Slavonski Brod is Plinarro's fault, I really don't have that information.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84136	Mr. Bauk, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84137	Since you failed to make good contact with the head of the municipality of Omisalj of the SDP, what kind of contact have you managed to make with the two mayors of the municipalities of Krk from HDZ? With one from the PGS and two independents, since they're unanimous against the floating LNG terminal? And what have you managed to make contact with the council members of the coastal-goran county, say from your party or from HSP or from these small-right parties, when they are against LNG terminals? What kind of contact have you managed to make with 5,000 protesters who have also protested against LNG terminals or 19 000 citizens who have signed a petition against a floating LNG terminal? Anyway, since you have the opportunity to accept our conclusion that the law goes into second reading, we will conduct a second reading on the discussions of amendments that will last, be assured, for more than 12 hours, because we have submitted so many, and then we will have another 12 hours to explain why this law is not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84138	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84139	Thank you very much, Mr. Bauk. The interested public for us are all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and all institutions that have been able in any way to contribute to the debate on the LNG terminal and its realization of this law. The public debate received 55 comments if I am not mistaken, objections to this legislative proposal, of which 3 were fully adopted in part, 7. The information you gave the protesters, the signatures, it seems to me that everyone was wrong, everything you said was wrong, I wouldn't comment. I allow that it is absolutely acceptable to dissatisfaction, to express my dissatisfaction with a particular project in such a way, and to petition, and to protest in Rijeka, and to that I have nothing to add. But as far as communication is concerned, as I said, I have been from the Ministry's communication to all those interested in this whole process, in no way will I and will not distance myself. So we believe that she was adequate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84140	Thank you. Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I think three things are important to repeat, no matter what you said about some things in your final address. The first is what does this mean for energy positioning on the map of Europe? Another thing, what you're implying here, and clearly you have to say, obviously some don't want to hear, what's the difference in the economic justification of LNG terminals on land and floating? The third thing, to me honestly, is not clear, listening to colleagues on the left hand side of the assembly, how could this law have been passed through the government's legislation office if there were so many disagreements with the Constitution and with other laws in the state? And third thing, repeat once again the contacts you had with the local community and did it really have to be politically invested 200 amendments to highlight something that is crystal clear?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84142	Yes, but in one minute, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84143	Thank you again for asking, Agent Shucker. So this is a project in which the Republic of Croatia is positioned on Europe's energy map and this really is not a single government project and it must not be a single government project. This is a project of all those governments that have been thinking in this direction, and we haven't been able to realise it before. As for the difference in realisation costs, land compared to floating LNG, the situation is very clear. In 2016, she pointed out that land is better for realisation because of one single fact, which is the fact that they took into account the variant in which the lease, i.e. the LNG floating boat, would cost 50 million euros a year, which is amazing. So that way, with these costs, no project can be worth it, just for that. Otherwise floating is cheap for 40 to 50% and it's important to emphasize. As for constitutionality and the legislative office, I share your opinion and there is no need to comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84144	Thank you very much. Perhaps one day our shipyards will be able to build such, who knows, perhaps an Oilman. Mr. Matic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84145	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you probably know that Parliament sessions are being recorded. So here's to the history of being recorded, please tell us once again briefly and clearly whether or not you're really and honestly behind these arguments that you gave us for this LNG project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84146	Thank you for your briefness. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84147	Mr. Matić, since, as you said, the sessions are being recorded, so everything I said has already been recorded. But this exposition that didn't last too long lasted only ten minutes since I took part in a debate with your colleagues this morning, first of all from the SDP and had five minutes to discuss, yes, standing. So the LNG terminal project and the realization of LNG terminal is something that at least from the perspective of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes sense. The fact that certain political options five, six, seven years ago and maybe it would be good to watch those videos, plead in a certain direction, and they changed direction, and eventually at PGG level, is something that I can't comment on right now. I don't change your mind in rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84148	Thank you, too. The last replica, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84149	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I think that, in any case, we should think about it and maybe take a step back sometime to move forward, and communication with citizens is very important. It's like one of my lessons, but the fundamental reason why I answered, it's always pointed out here that strategic projects are both LNG terminal and Pelješki bridge, but I'm always talking about a strategic project that's also worth 580m euros. If you want to take it, you can take 250m euros equal to the LNG terminal, and it is a simple installation of elevators into multi-story residential buildings in the Republic of Croatia. I would like the minister of this kind to speak about the same thing about this project because it is very important for the quality of life of the people of the Republic of Croatia, so please give it to her. You don't have to answer my line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84151	Mr. Hrelja, the esteemed representative of the Hrelja. This is the first replica I hit in advance and its contents today. So I'll pass on your initiative to the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84152	If there was a delegation with me, they have a lot of reasons for such elevators. I mean, it's not as out of the question as it looks, it's strategic. A strategic project of people who have a certain number of years can reach the fifth floor with elevators as in other EU countries. Thank you very much, Mr. Hrelja. We are now done with the replicas and I am also concluding the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84153	[[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we are going with a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 333. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. We're going to make a statement about the amendments now. The amendments were submitted by SDP Representatives' Club, MP Domagoj Hajduković, the Live Wall Representatives' Club and SNAGA, the MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means and I will now ask the applicant's representative to show up on the amendments submitted. With us is respected Ivo Milatić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. We're going in a row now. We're starting with Amendment number one, the SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84154	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. As regards Amendment number 1 of the SDP Representatives Club, it is not accepted. The amendment has been considered and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84155	Comrade Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84156	Dear President of the Parliament. The SDP has submitted over 360 amendments to lex LNG because we wanted to warn the Croatian public once more but also you are responsible for the consequences that will cause the adoption of such a harmful law. Lex LNG is an irresistible reminder of lex Agrokor because it pleases interested people who will have unsightly consequences not only for the Croatian economy but also for the environment, primarily for the sea. The citizens of Krk and SDP support the project of a land LNG terminal that is developed, which opens new jobs, which is environmentally acceptable and what is most important, which already has a given location permit. But you are now trying to do an urgent procedure, just as in the case of lex Agrokora, quickly push this law by hitting interested groups with a dumped price against the will of the citizens of Krk, against the opinion of the profession and what is worst, not taking care of the ecological aspect i.e. what kind of consequences this can cause for the environment primarily for our seas. I urge you to take care of the public interest for once instead of the personal interests of individual lobbies, to withdraw the law and show that you are not involved in the very creation of this law, which is probably, as in the case of Lex Agrokor, a new group of Borg. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84157	We're now going to Amendment 2 to the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84158	Amendment number two is not accepted. The applicant has considered and considers that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84159	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84160	Thank you, Mr. President. As my colleague Bernardic used to say, this law smells of some kind of interest. It smells like stakeholders, smells like a whole series of problems that will arise in its application but primarily smells like higher prices of gas bills, and will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia through taxes. Through this whole law, one thesis is going through, which is the the the thesis that the construction of this terminal is this way and the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, in the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. The problem, however, is that in no way is it explained in this law that it is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. A law that should regulate one on the knee of building a terminal that is opposed to the local community, justified, which is opposed to a whole series of those who are highly verifiable on environmental issues, should be explained far better than this. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know why this is a strategic interest in the Republic of Croatia. Citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know what will happen when this terminal is built. How it will affect their lives. In what way will it affect the lives of the people of Krk, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Istria and all who are oriented towards Kvarner, where a whole series of ships will pass, etc. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know how much this will affect their pocket. In view of the provisions of Article 12 of this Act, how much will they have to pay for the one who manages the terminal because it is already visible from the aircraft that this terminal is not worth it. After all, the legislator himself has provided for this very reason, but further through the interpretation of the other amendments, of course we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84161	Thank you. We're going to Amendment number three of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84162	Thank you. Amendment number 3 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant has considered and considers that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84163	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84164	Thank you, Mr. President. As I've already mentioned...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84165	A fellow coat of arms, just a second. Comrade Bulj, please, colleagues are currently discussing the amendments, if you want to discuss doing this quietly or outside the assembly, please, we can work normally. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84166	As I have already mentioned, the problem is in article 12 of this law. Article 1 to which we have submitted this amendment indicates what is the subject matter of the law. So it's the subject of the law and the question of compensation. Therefore, this law provides that the operator will be able to pay compensation unless he has a positive business. So I'll do it again. If the operator does not operate positively, the Republic of Croatia shall make a commitment to ensure that it is compensated by this law. So, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, whether through the price of gas or if it is decided, whether or not through taxes that are paid in the budget of the Republic of Croatia will have to pay compensation if the terminal does not operate positively. If we add environmental impact problems to that, it is up to me, and to all those I have contacted over the past few weeks related to this terminal, completely unclear what the goals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are. The government of the Republic of Croatia has never bothered to explain, before I mentioned that the issue is strategically, or of strategic interest to build this terminal in an extremely bad way, but the government has not bothered to explain to citizens who are interested in us all to pay a higher price for gas or to pay taxes through taxes for something we know in advance that is not cost-effective and for something that we know in advance will have a bad impact on the environment. Of course we can't accept that and of course we're looking for a vote for this amendment too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84167	Thank you, too. We're going to the 4th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84168	The fourth amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. We've considered it, and we don't think it's aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84169	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84170	Thank you, Mr. President. So, I started talking about the fee from Art. 12. I started talking about the environmental impact of this terminal and our environment, of course, but also on the lives of the citizens. However, what is particularly controversial here is the question of who this fee will go to. During the debate, the esteemed representative of the applicant said that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should not be afraid because the owners of the company's operators are owned by the Republic of Croatia. However, the proposer's representative ignored one provision of this law and that provision. 6th which states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia at any time, at any time without the conduct of the prescribed procedure applicable to all other privatisations, may transfer ownership to third parties, either in whole or in part of the investor, by simple decision or conclusion. The government defends itself by saying that the investor must not alienate the terminal during a 10-year period. Yeah, an investor can't alienate the terminal, but the government can sell the investor. Government at any time, anyone, per article. 6th, 2nd century, he can sell the share to the investor. So we have a situation that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to tax through or through higher gas prices to damage the investor, and at any time, even free of charge, the government can sell the investor to third parties. This is scandalous. And I don't remember such provisions in a law like this that we had, except for something like that in the Golf Act. Of course, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84171	Let's go to Amendment No. 5, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84172	Thank you. The SDP representative club, meaning Amendment No. Five won't be accepted. The draft Law regulates the security of supply compensation in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1988, which determines the obligations of the Member States to implement, the Member States to implement, inter alia, preventive measures for security of supply. That fee will not affect the price of gas in the Republic of Croatia towards final customers, but will be determined at an annual level by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency within the framework of existing transport tariffs or gas transport service costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84173	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84174	I thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Now you've removed part of the doubt. We now know that this fee will not be paid from the price of gas to be paid by citizens, but this fee will be paid from the state budget. Therefore, this fee will not only be paid by those who are heating up on gas but will be paid by every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has ever paid taxes in any way, even through the price of bread or something else. So it is very clear from this Law and from your argument that the fee will be paid and that it will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And then the Government of the Republic of Croatia retains the right at any time to a third party, and even without compensation to alienate the share of the investor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and above all, Mr. Secretary of State, I will repeat what I said at the beginning. This is scandalous and this stinks to the sky. I don't know if you've had a chance to read in the daily newspaper the statements of colleagues from the Eco Kvarner Association who have spoken about how much this will cost, what the prices, what the fees for the ship are, what they'll all receive from the one whose ship is, how it will all be paid for by this investment paid by all the citizens of the Republic. What is particularly interesting there is one thesis, which is unfortunately from what you have just said, it is visible, which is that the risk of this project is borne by all the citizens of the Republic, and the revenue will go to the investor which the Government of the Republic of Croatia will be able to choose beyond the competition, past the procedure under the provision that says, by decision or conclusion, the Government changes the ownership structure to the proposal of the Minister of Energy. It's a fact that you can't ignore and you can't appeal to any regulation or directive of the Eu because they don't prescribe this. I thank you and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84175	Thank you. Let's go to Amendment No. 6th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84176	It's unacceptable. We've considered the amendment, and we don't think it's aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84177	He's a colleague of Bernardich's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84178	Dear Secretary of State, you have unfortunately just admitted in your explanation of the last amendment that you will please the interested through a direct grant from the state budget. So this case is worse than lex-Agrocor. There is the possibility of potential lawsuits for the Republic of Croatia, and here directly from the state budget you will finance the project unless it is profitable. And who will finance and who will help the people of Krk, who may stay because of the project because of their incomes, mainly in tourism. So, in this way, you have directly confirmed that you are guessing the interested, that for you the state budget is an ATM and that you are not taking care of environmental standards, primarily about the protection of the sea, because this law, lex LNG and lex Agrokor, not only for the Croatian economy, it can have far-reaching consequences for the environment. Primarily Krka, Kvarner Bay and primarily our Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84179	Thank you. Amendment number 7 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84180	Thank you. Amendment number seven is not accepted. We've considered you, and we don't think it's directed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84181	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84182	Thank you, Mr. President. We have also prepared an indication of the citizens of Omis, the island of Krk and the Primorje Mountain County, and we will present their opinions within the framework of business opportunities. To begin with, Mr. Fired Antunac. Here's to it.../The speaker plays the video in the microphone: Antunac Firen, a graduate shipbuilding engineer and IMB. I've been in the gas business for 40 years, I've been building INA facilities, I've been building gas installations, and I'm saying that this solution to the floating terminal... that except that it is much more dangerous than the land terminal for the safety of people and except that it is economically doing damage to the citizens of Omis and technologically represents a problematic situation, because there are no synergy effects with the space behind which is located on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Contrary to all the claims made in the Assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since there is still time we will put another.../The speaker plays the video into the microphone: I do not understand how the LNG law introduces banking functions, where 99 years of concessions are given to one activity, which is market activity in all the countries in Europe, here it is assumed that the oil port is the place of the future terminal and is assumed that one tanker will drive LNG from the boat... to that port, to the LNG terminal at the oil port. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First in the world, not one... To date, it does not land LNG in banking ships, the second oil port, is not at all suitable for banking activities, because there does not fit a single modern banking ship for gas ingested, and the whole project is thus collected for 100 million, circus 100 million euros. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are looking for a vote and will continue on the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84183	Thank you, colleagues and colleagues, this is not the same for the Rules of Procedure, I think the MPs here speak, and not what we've recorded was a similar situation with video from a fellow bridge, and now, we have to agree whether we're going to represent the people here and speak for him, or whether we're going to play video, audio footage, it's now something new. So we can go now and go to some variants that we haven't worked before, but then we ask the question of the credibility of an agent who doesn't pronounce but releases the video. Now, I can't, so it's not exactly how the citizens judge, because there are rules here. These are now the new rules of the game and I will ask the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, to make it clear, because then we don't have to come here anymore, but we can play the videos. First, on behalf of the Club, we'll be giving videos, and then on behalf of the MPs, we'll be playing videos, that is, audition videos. ... It's a little awkward here, and I'm new to this, so I'd like to pray, yeah, we're gonna do a 10-minute break to consult, see what happens next, because this, to me, doesn't make much sense. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm setting a break to 10.20 hours. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 10.05. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 10.20 HOURS]] So Article 201. The Rules of Procedure say: Amendments shall be declared by the Proposer and by the Government if he is not the legislator. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Only the applicant of the amendment and its speech cannot last longer than 2 minutes after the applicant has shown that the amendment has been made to the applicant. I hear you're throwing away, as a rule, it's about the motionor, or the government, and as far as the applicant is concerned, his speech cannot last longer than two minutes. ... Okay, colleague Bauk like this, I even today, this is my opinion, but we didn't have this kind of practice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You play audio recordings, I'll ask the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure and the political system for showing and about those suggestions to play video and audio records here, but then also, here we are now talking, may suggest that one of the colleagues not have to be here during the vote, but will vote from Korčula, let's say a colleague named Bačić, by letter. To do that, it also doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure that you can or can't. So I think we're now catching some curves that aren't going to get us anywhere, we have to interpret this Rules of Procedure rationally, discreetly, or we can go in the direction of doing a play so it's up to you to choose how you're going to behave today, but what I'm going to do is I'm going to ask the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system to interpret these situations and we don't have any more of these dilemmas. So we can proceed now with amendment number 8 of the SDP's representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84185	Amendment number 8 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant has considered and considers that they are not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84186	Thank you, Mr. President, I think you did the right thing, and I thank you for that. We'll continue, we haven't prepared much of these clips, but here's to honor this and thank yours we'll release something that a HDZ member thinks clearly yes. .../The speaker plays the video in a microphone: Josip Djurdjevic, a HDZ member, lives here in Njivica for 35 years, I consider this a tourist resort according to all plans brought to the Omisalj municipality. I object to the floating LNG, for the land LNG I am, but floating LNG is out of the question because Njivice would be reviling, and in Njivica there has been a lot of millions of euros recently invested in the Njivice to hear the rumbling, the grinding of compressors and gas pumps throughout the day. Land LNG can and has places, there are places to stay, but floating LNG if this is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia as far as I'm aware, an alternative has been offered to... And I believe that it would be much more rewarding and would not offend this neighborhood. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, in the spirit of these new democratic aspirations of the HDZ, I am asking for a vote, and I hope that the MPs will also vote on their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84187	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84188	.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 201 has been injured. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, paragraph 3 which clearly states: After the submission of the applicant on certain amendments to the applicant's indication, only the proponent can look at it, and only the proponents are representatives of the SDP who have been authorised by the club to present their views or if the representative has submitted them, therefore the Rules of Procedure are perfectly clear. Because what they're playing is saying, they're not proposing. So the promoter is the SDP club, and the SDP club is made up of people with a name and name. These people with a name and a last name are authorized here to speak for the club, so let's not make a circus out of what we adopted together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84189	Time. My colleague Shucker is having a hard time disagreeing with you, you're right, so I would now appeal to my SDP colleagues to accept that because this is unquestionable indeed. It is a clear provision of the Rules of Procedure, I think they have achieved an excellent effect in these two addresses of these citizens, so I would now ask that we continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We're going to the 9th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84190	.../Speaker off./ We don't think it's aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84191	Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84192	Thank you, Mr. President. I see that distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the ruling majority have a serious problem, here is Mr. Shucker now, but it doesn't matter. There you are, sorry, colleagues from the ruling majority, here I haven't noticed you, I haven't noticed you, you're small. [[There I am, there I am.]] And colleagues from the ruling majority have a serious problem when the voice of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is heard in the Croatian Parliament, but good. What the citizens wanted in their words to convey to the MPs, we will do for them. And that's one more time, and we're going to continue today so all day, that what you're proposing is not good. I will repeat once again, Article 12 of the Law in question, if the operator does not deal with profits, the Government through an agency that is not a state body that exists outside of space and time may determine the height and method of collecting the compensation for security of supply according to the request of the operator. If that fee will not be paid by citizens through the price and the secretary of state has said that citizens will not pay through the price, it means that someone will have to pay it. The obligation to pay this kind of fee cannot be imposed on third parties. The obligation to pay such a fee can only be assumed by the State. If that fee does not go from the price of gas then it will go from the state budget, then it will go from the pocket of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And for free citizens and citizens, he's thinking that you're going to give them some 2 million kunas that the minister was talking about when he's going to have to pay back through this fee anyway and that 2 or 3 million kuna we're all going to pay. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84193	Let's move on. Amendment No. Ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84194	Amendment No. The 10th is not accepted. We've considered you, and we don't think it's directed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84195	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84196	At the risk of being boring, but it's not my problem, I'll keep saying what we started this morning. So you're providing the operator with a fee if he doesn't deal with profits. We can talk about security of gas supply and alternative routes, but is it really necessary to secure those alternative directions in a way that we all pay so that, as in that folk, it's more expensive pie than tepsia? That doesn't make sense. Because what you're proposing here opens up the possibility of massive malfeasance. Because in something that is not cost-effective, no one wants to invest and then you offer a fee first, you offer a fee, and then after that, you say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, without conducting any procedure, transfer ownership to this third party by simple decision or conclusion. If that doesn't smell right up to the sky, then I really don't know what could be more of a problem in this country. And of course we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84197	Let's go to Amendment No. 11. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84198	Thank you. Amendment No. 11. Unacceptable. And we've also considered and we find that it's not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84199	I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84200	Here we go again the voice of the people, Mrs. Adelina Kunst. .../The speaker is playing a tape from his cell phone./... We are looking for a vote now for fellow Jovanovic to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84201	Okay, but we've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure again, Comrade Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84202	Thank you, Mr. President. So here I believe that the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Article 201(3), is injured, which says that who, who can be manifested for the reasons of the motion. However, I am interested in whether this recording was, or whether the citizens who are taking their stand here know that they have been recorded and whether they have given their consent to colleagues, Bauku, on their behalf, to reproduce here in the Parliament so as not to initiate proceedings against the Parliament or against us who unauthorizedly reproduce their speech at the debate itself. I'm also interested in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84203	Thank you, Comrade Bacic. This is my colleague Bauk, so the Rules of Procedure are clearly being violated. So after these articles we've heard, I can't do anything but break it, I won't give you a warning but for the next time I'll give you a warning, and then after that you'll lose the right to speak, and then someone else will let you go, but then we'll give you a warning by that logic. So, here, I'm sorry, but that's right. Now let's go to Amendment No. 12. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84204	Thank you. Amendment No. 12. A SDP representative club is not accepted. We've considered it, and we don't think it's directed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. President, when I have to get a warning, let it be for the presentation of the mayor of Krk, who is from the PGS, here we have HDZ. .../The speaker is playing a tape from his cell phone./... As for Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, I demand a vote and expect a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84206	The vote will, of course, be and I now give you my first warning. Here you go, three injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84207	It's an injured article...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84208	And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, my colleague Jelkovac was the first, I'm sorry, she was.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84209	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Article 201(3) has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Therefore, only the applicant of the amendment may be consulted after the applicant has shown that an amendment has been made to the applicant. It means his obvious. We have here nomotechnical amendments and answers as to why the amendment was not adopted, so because nomotechnical expression could not be improved by amendment. And here, in the observator's testimony, it's not about the obvious at all, but it's about the LNG project in general. That's why we had a debate, so we've been breaking the Rules of Procedure all day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84210	Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84211	Mr. President, Article 239 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, since you have given me a warning, although I have not acted against any provision in Article 238 which gives rise to a warning. So I didn't talk about a subject that wasn't the subject of discussion, nor did I speak without prior approval, nor did I break in and interfere with the speaker, nor did I talk about another subject, nor did I demean and insult other representatives and neither did I deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly [[President: E, but this is now.]] How? [[President: E, yes, it is.]] I stood there, stood still, with Gandhi's methods of malt, and I didn't disturb the order of the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84212	Time, time's up. So by your conduct, you deviated from the general rules of conduct in the House and you violated the Rules of Procedure because you would have to speak in accordance with Article 201. Here's a colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also think that the injured article in 239 was because a colleague used the video just to supplement his debate because as far as I heard him and how much I followed him, he said something at first and finally. So, I don't think there was any basis for a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84214	Okay, that's your opinion. Appeal to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84215	Therefore, Article 239 was injured in connection with Article 238, and I will also say why. In the Assembly, it is quite common for MPs to quote other people during their discussions. We usually do so in a way that we take their words and read them on paper. In this case it was about quoting others not by reading their texts, thoughts, sentences...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84216	Time's up for an explanation, thank you very much. It takes 30 seconds. And it's seven, eight seconds now. [[Intruder Klisovic: But it was 10 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84217	Okay, anyway, this is about quoting through audio footage, not reading text. But it's about quoting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84218	The article 201 clearly states that his speech cannot last longer than 2 minutes. So it's clear, more than clear that it's a speech That means he has to talk, let's not, let's move on. ... [[/Attack Klisovic: But he didn't speak for more than 2 minutes, did he?]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84219	Mr. Bacic, you asked for consent, so all the people we quoted here by signature gave consent that we could quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84220	Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84221	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately we have here an eclectic violation of Article 1. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament which clearly tells these Rules of Procedure are arranged for the internal structure, the way of work of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, Article 201 provides that it may say so. And how can we expect Croatian citizens to respect the laws if we break, this is our law as we behave here. And it is not good to use the citizens of Krk, after all I am closer to that LNG terminal physically one part of the year, but all those who fight for it. I think my colleagues... who was a representative in this House [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] should otherwise be enabled [[The President's incursion: Time.]] but it's not good to violate Article 1 of this Rules of Procedure. [[Time, fellow Shucker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84222	Okay. So, I think it's clear now that we've agreed on how we're going to continue to work and whoever breaks Business will get warnings and lose their word after the second warning. We're now going to the 13th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84223	It is not accepted because we have considered the same and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84224	Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84225	The colleagues and colleagues, therefore the vast majority of the citizens of Omis, Krka, PGZ and through the petition and through the protest on Korz and through the statements they recorded and who want to be released today and heard is against the floating LNG terminal for many reasons but now we have heard that it is not good for us to break an article of the Rules of Procedure, we do not feel that we are in breach. And how good it can be when the government violates the Constitution, the laws, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the decisions of the Municipality of Omisalj, the decisions of the PGG and those taken without a single vote against, decisions that supported all the political options that operate in Omislj, Krk, PGZ. Therefore, even in this way today, we want to show that the Constitution, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, many laws and what is saddest, is being violated by the will of voters living in Omislje, Krka, PGG, and we must not do so. It is our job to represent the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the interests of the citizens of the constituencies that we come from, so specifically we who are from the PGG have a special obligation to do and to convey the voice of the citizens of Omis, Krk and PGZ but not only of them, but also of the citizens of Croatia who will have to pay more expensive gas because of interests that are not of Croatia, but above all are the interests of Hungary and we here today have to say loudly that the citizens understand what it is and that one anti-constitutional law is being passed at the expense of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84226	We're going to the Club of Representatives of the SDP, number 14 of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84227	Thank you. Amendment number 14 is not accepted. We have considered the same, and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84228	Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84229	So Omisalj municipality has shown how much it cares about strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. In the Municipality of Omisalj there is an airport, in Omisalj municipality there was DINA which was not renovated until today, although it was promised, in the Municipality of Omisalj were parts of the third May shipyard, there is JANAF. The municipality of Omisalj has agreed to be a land LNG terminal, but does not agree to a floating LNG terminal because all studies that are half-shown show that four basic conditions are not met which the citizens of Omis, Krka and the Primorje-Gorski County have not met the economic, energy, environmental and aesthetic preconditions. None of these conditions are satisfied, so through all the amendments we have submitted, we want to further point out how bad, unconstitutional this Act is and how embarrassingly discriminates against the will of the voters of the Republic of Croatia living in Omislj, Krk and Primorje-Gorski County. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84230	Amendment No. 15 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84231	Thank you. Amendment No. 15 won't be accepted. We've considered it, and we feel the same way that it's not directed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84232	Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84233	Thank you, Mr. President. So, during the debate on this Law, Minister Coric said here that he was sorry that he no longer spoke to the citizens of Krk, representatives of the municipality of Omisalj and all residents of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County after all that had happened afterwards. We can see that's not true that he's sorry, that there's no appeal. In fact, not only did he not talk, but the government and the ministry and the personal minister of Ćorić together with colleagues from his ministry impose one solution against which the citizens of the island of Krk, the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County, regardless of political commitment, are the only exception there are the representatives of the HDZ from the Primorje-Gorski County who will vote against the opinions of the entire region, and that is what we cannot understand and once again appeal to you not to break over your knees and listen to the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County and to move this Law to another reading and that, in the final argument, there is a solution that would be best for all citizens in our region. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84234	We're going to the 16th Amendment of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84235	Thank you. Amendment No. 16 unacceptable. We have considered the same, and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84236	Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84237	Thank you very much. I do not accept your argument because we too have considered all the arguments made by this government and they do not correspond to the actual state or to common sense, they are contrary to the wishes of the people of the island of Krk, any government should primarily serve its people, but we see in this government that this is not the case. We see it in this Law and in some laws that were written a year and a half ago, and later we find out who wrote them. I hope we find out soon enough who wrote this Law, in whose interest this is being pushed together, but these things aren't good, and I'm going to do it again. So against this, citizens of the island of Krk, citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County. 19 thousand citizens have signed a petition against this law. All policy options, including those sitting in the government of the Republic of Croatia, are through the Primorje-Gorski County, through the conclusions of the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly, through their public address, showing their dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction with this Law and what is worst, which you are not only doing to the citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County but rather doing to our children, you are doing to the future of this region which has a 10% share in the total tourism of the Republic of Croatia and you are destroying one of our branches of which we all live together. You're destroying that beauty and I call you once again to give up these crazy solutions and ask for a vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84238	Amendment No. 17 SDP representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84239	Thank you. Amendment No. 17 SDP representatives clubs are not accepted. We have considered the same, and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84240	I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84241	Thank you, Mr. President. I would ask you to explain the amendments to me in accordance with Article 18. The rules of procedure shall allow the use of technical information resources, paragraph 2. It's possible according to the Rules of Procedure. Not to get a new warning from taking a word, I think. So I can leave the army alone. ... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, representatives are made available the technical information and materials they need to behave in their duties, so I would ask... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, no, no. [[You can't hear it.]] It doesn't say it's being announced. I'd like to ask the president to allow me and make it available. Here, I'll just squeeze there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84242	No, no. Or a colleague of Bauk's. So article 201 says you have to talk. If there is any help that will make it easier for you to speak, feel free to use that help.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84243	In that case, according to your interpretation, I can now squeeze the play and just open my mouth and gently make noises so that I don't interfere with the one who plays. That would be a little bit, I'm not going to be out of line with you, but I'm going to go to the office now, and other colleagues are going to explain the amendments, so I'm going to read everything that people have recorded, if that's the right thing to do. I think we should still go back to the 21st century, but I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder Jandroković: This is so right.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84244	Comrade Bauk, only because of our viewers following us. In the 21st century it is possible to vote with Korčula, as we have said. So we're protecting some system and some rules of conduct that we've given ourselves. So we don't have to be here at all, we can all communicate with video technology from our offices, the Internet, and everything will be great. But here we are representatives of the people, on their behalf we speak, clearly prescribed rules where you are said to have the right to speak no longer than 2 minutes and I stick to it. So, please, let's try to be correct, fair, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The vote will be of course on Amendment No. 17. Now we're going to the 18th Amendment, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84245	Amendment No. 18 unacceptable. We have considered the same, and we believe that the same is not directed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84246	So we care about the interests of our citizens and simply all these days I meet our citizens from the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, but throughout Croatia, they resent such a violation of the democratic procedure. The public debate lasted 15 days, now one law, of vital importance for the inhabitants of Omis, Krka and Primorje Mountain County, pushes in a way that it is an emergency procedure that rejects all our proposals, remarks, our message that we are going to another reading, that we may find a better solution and that shows that you are actually not absolutely holding the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The party you belong to wants to achieve some goals, to please someone, to the harm of the citizens. You are passing a new law on preventing conflicts of interest, which will be a law on concealing conflicts of interest. Just to show that you don't care at all about the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And now and here, by refusing all of our amendments, you're just confirming that. Of course we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84247	We're going to Amendment 19 to the SDP-A Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84248	Amendment number 19. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The same we have considered and we believe that the same is not directed at a better technical nom... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84249	Comrade Klisovic, it's you now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84250	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, why is the government so aggressively pushing for the adoption of this law in the first reading. Is there any real reason? So you are neglecting the political consensus that is so rare in this country, at local and regional level, of all the political forces that dwell there and gain citizens' trust. You know, all the mayors, the mayors on the island of Krk, and two are from the SDP, two from the HDZ, two independent and one from the PGS are unanimous against the floating terminal. The Primorian County Assembly, unanimously against the floating LNG terminal. And in it sits both HDZ and SDP and HSP and Bridge and Labourists and Union Kvarner, Youth Action, Living Wall, etc. So what's the reason you're so aggressively pushing this quick adoption in the first reading? As for the voice of the people released in this assembly, I would just like to warn you of one thing, which may also be useful to the Committee on the Constitution, so we in our discussions have the right to quote other people. I say we usually do it the way we say now I'm going to quote the person xy and read her thoughts. What Mr. Bauk did was actually quote within his debate, other people's thoughts using an audio device. There's no difference there but the difference is that you're the means by which you've replaced it is no longer your voice and reading from other people's thoughts' paper, but other people's thoughts are transmitted directly through audio footage. It shouldn't, in my opinion, be a violation of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. And we're looking for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84251	All right, let's go to number 20 of the SDP's representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84252	Thank you. SDP representative club Amendment No. 20 of these are not accepted, we have considered, and we believe that it is not directed at a better number of technical expressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84253	A colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, when we were elected to the Croatian Parliament, when we were established, we swore that we would work on the interests of our citizens, we swore to the Constitution, which prescribed it. I, as a representative, cannot deafen to Voxpopula, therefore, primarily the citizens of Omis, the citizens of Krk, the citizens of the Primorian Mountain County. What counterpart Klisovic said before me, which is to ignore the system, ignore the consensus at local level, a political consensus that is rare. But also, colleagues and colleagues, you're trying to ignore the political consensus that exists in this House, which is that we need the LNG terminal and that the LNG terminal must be land-based, if we go to this solution, so it's in this location. I also have to join my colleagues and colleagues, who are wondering, why this is breaking over my knee now, we have a project that is 25 years old, maybe more, and now in a week we have to solve all the legal bases that it takes to realize it. My colleagues and colleagues, the last time we brought such a controversial lex, he wrote in low-profile restaurants around the City of Zagreb, where he wrote this and his accounts and whose interests. Interests of Croatian citizens? Is it the interest of Croatian citizens to buy more expensive gas and whether to pay for the infrastructure projects of some other countries and the interests of some other countries. So if they have interests let them pay for it themselves. We will gladly grant them infrastructure, of course with some compensation, but we will not pay their interests. We need to end this kind of relationship. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84255	Okay. Let's go to Amendment No. 21 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84256	Thank you. Amendment No.21 The SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, we have considered it and we do not consider it a better nom of technical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84257	Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84258	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, you just said, when you told us about our way of arguing, that in the 21st century, it shouldn't be here, but it can be voted, for example. from Korčula and it is true, as it is true that in the 21st century an old ship, 37 years old, which should be tomorrow the LNG terminal does not have to be in Omislje, but may be outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. And that would be the most normal and fairest. And I am now asking myself, why the Government is on its knees against the wishes of the citizens of the Primorian Civil County, regardless of their party membership, pushing this project and which are the interests behind this project, when the government forcefully imposes a solution, which is not profitable, is not economically justified, is not ecological, doing damage all over one end, but nevertheless, despite warnings and requests from all inhabitants of the region, the government is pushing and not worrying about the consequences, Minister Coric does not want to talk to the citizens of the Primor Mountain County at all. The state is willing to even resolve the losses that it already says itself, that the losses will appear on this project and that the state will resuscitate and cover them, and then I wonder, which are essentially the real interests behind this project and which is why all this, in this way, is pushed and forced, and therefore I ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84259	We're going to Amendment 22 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84260	Thank you. Amendment number 22 is not accepted. Reason: The ship to be supplied, if it is an old ship, shall not be older than 11 years and, if it is a conversion, the conversion shall not be more than 12 months old.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84261	Here you go, pal Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84262	Thank you very much. So we can't believe you, it's the saddest thing in this story because everything you said when you explained this law, everything the minister said, on several occasions he was telling the truth, so even the arguments that you're presenting now, we have to take with deep doubt how true they are. So the citizens of Omis disagree with this project, but they care about the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia and therefore consider that the land LNG terminal is a good solution. So imagine tourists coming, no matter how old that ship was, since we don't believe what you said, and that ship will be a mess that's as big as three football fields and is 17 floors high, so it will absolutely dominate its dimensions, with its looks absolutely all over it. And not only that, it will drop 300 tons of varicine into the sea, it will absolutely cause the entire ecological system in the Kvarner Bay. So that ship is not the solution, and that's why we're asking for a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84263	We're going to Amendment 23, same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84264	Thank you. Amendment number 23 is not accepted because it is not aimed at better expression in terms of nomotechnics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84265	Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84266	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of State, it has often been mentioned in the interpretation of this law that the LNG terminal is in the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. And as you might have noticed, no one slows down that fact. We all believe that he is in the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia and that one contribution is to European energy security. So it goes beyond the Republic of Croatia itself and in fact those of whom we expect assistance in the event of a crisis in Croatia, including energy, to help in this way that if they come to the crisis that through our LNG terminal they can patch up those energy consumption holes they need, especially during the winter, we know what it was like when the Russians lifted the gas flow through the pipeline in Ukraine, Ukraine began to freeze. We don't want that within the EU, we don't want it for our partners, we expect our own countries to help in the event of any disturbances on our own market. Citizens of Omis and beyond Omis, the island of Krk and the entire coastal-goran county also do not dispute that the LNG terminal is needed. So the only difference that the SDP, which citizens imagine, is citizens of the coastal and mountainous county, and I believe that the entire citizens of the Republic of Croatia have according to the government's proposal is what kind of LNG. So we all stand for LNG, but we stand for land, not this floating one. And why not float? Because it is harmful to the environment, which is not financially profitable, which will ultimately be more expensive because it requires additional ships to transport gas to Rijeka's oil port which is not adequately equipped for the reception of such gas and many other reasons. Thank you. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84267	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 24 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84268	Thank you. Amendment number 24 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. Reason: If it works full capacity, it will come out a little more than 5 tonnes of residual chlorine, which stops within 400 metres of the terminal, and is immeasurable after that round. While during one year the Omisalj municipality has 104 tonnes of biochemical unprocessed sewerage waste water, which has far more chlorine and varicine, taking into account the fact how much varicina is spent on cleaning stones in sanitary nodes and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84269	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I still don't understand why we're running away from hearing what our citizens say about this, so first of all, those who are going to feel the consequences of this LNG terminal. Do you know colleagues and colleagues that 10% of tourism in the Republic of Krk is achieved on the island of Krk, i.e. translated into a concrete amount of 250m euros in revenue per year. We are a tourist country, which is what we want to be, so the island of Krk is incometing about this amount annually. Have you heard of the archaeological complex Mirjana... I believe most of them are not, but otherwise this same complex has included our Ministry of Tourism among the 20 top archaeological destinations in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The same complex during the season visits 1,000 visitors daily. And this same complex is located only 300 meters from the proposed location of the new floating terminal. So, a colleague Jovanovic spoke, of a big mess, a large couple of football fields, over 20m high or almost 20m tall, which noises, bright, releases the varicina, every day, all day and all night. With this, we want to be a tourist country, we with these citizens and citizens of the island of Krk who, by the wave of tourism and living, send a wonderful message: Go to Ireland and do tourism there because on the island of Krk you will no longer be able to do it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84271	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:12 A.M.]] Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDP, Amendment 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84272	Amendment number 25 is not accepted. We've considered you to be not focused on a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84273	Thank you, Mr. President. Here we had a break that said a number of things, so one of the questions is, where will the citizens of continental Croatia have gas, and how will they be explained when they freeze that they can't have gas? It's simply not true and it's not true because citizens in the interior can have gas, they can have it from a fixed LNG terminal, so not from a floating one, and that's what it means, not to impose a false thesis. We in the coastal-goran county are not against LNG, we are not against energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, however, we are for this, but we are not for this solution imposed by the Government, which is in more segments worse, worse than a fixed work that is consistent with spatial plans and everything we have been saying all day. But I want to say one more thing, why is a fixed LNG terminal better than a floating one? Among other things, the construction of a fixed LNG terminal would have enabled local construction operations, so it would also be useful for locals through the construction of the terminal, it would be useful for the Republic of Croatia's budget of revenues from construction firms, but in the end, at the fixed LNG terminal, domestic people, while the floating population does not have to be. Because what's a floating LNG terminal? It's a ship, and they're not workers on board, they're crews on board, and the vessel is operating under the laws of the country whose flag it's sailing, and there can be a very easy maneuver so that the locals don't even work there and that the local community has absolutely no use for it, but it could happen for example. That the Filipinos are working down there under the laws of a country like this. Italy. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84274	We're going to Amendment 26 of the same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84275	Thank you. Amendment number 26 is not accepted. Reason: It is important to note that the floating LNG terminal is in line with the spatial plan of the county that was adopted in 2013, which undoubtedly requires that the terminal will be built phasely and will in the first phase build a berth on land and a facility for... on board, as well as the possibility of exploiting the sea for terminal purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is precisely in line with the spatial plan of the county, which was adopted in 2013 that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2016 made a decision on phase construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84276	Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84277	Here are unfortunately colleagues and colleagues, citizens who watch the transfer of this session of the Croatian Parliament, you can see the government lying and cheating on Croatian citizens. So this LNG is unconstitutional precisely because the kind of offer is not in line with the spatial plans of the Municipality of Omis and the coastal-goran County. Thus, here lies all of us and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, he does not want to release the opinion and voice of the citizens of Omis who clearly want to say that they are for a land terminal, but they are not for a floating LNG terminal. Thus, it once again shows how the citizens of Omis, Krka and the coastal-goran County are disrespected because they do not want to establish a quality dialogue with a local community that has been missing all along. Another lie that keeps repeating, that the land LNG terminal would be incomparably more expensive, is simply one pathetic untrue because it compares twice the capacity. So if you were to work LNG terminals in land-based capacities like this floating, however, it would be even cheaper and could be used for other ways that would have an economic advantage for the coastal-goran county area. So lie to lies and absolutely disrespect the opinion, interests of Omis, Krka and the coastal-goran County. It's something that's inadmissible and I can't believe the government does it in such an unforgivable way. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84278	We're going to Amendment 27 of the same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84279	Thank you. Amendment number 27 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. Reason: The draft law provides that the FSRU must sail under the Croatian flag, as well as compulsory insurance and tax exemption for persons on board maritime facilities in order to encourage, or ensure the employment of Croatian seamen on a maritime facility, since our seamen in international waters are exempt from those taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84280	Here you go, pal Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84281	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear fellow Secretary of State and you and I know very well that for Croatia, a much better solution is a land LNG terminal than a floating one. The difference between you and me is that I admit it and say it, and you don't admit it and say it, but you're trying to defend a solution that you probably don't believe in yourself. And why do I say that? Well, it's because the government itself says that the floating LNG terminal is the first temporary phase and that in the official documentation it says that if it is shown that it will go to a land terminal, therefore the government itself is clearly resonating in the same way as we do, but we are asking immediately to go to a land terminal, not first as floating. And that's why it's completely incomprehensible when it's said that the first phase lasts for 10 years. What stage could take 10 years? It just doesn't work. So we're not serious. When HERA accounts for tariffs based on 20 years and now it's confusing, and it's additionally confusing when lex-LNG predicts giving concessions to a maximum of 99 years. So what's phase one here now, what's phase two? You have three information that is not mutually consistent and that confuses all of us, and I think we all share the view that the land terminal is what we need. And as counterpart Jovanovic said, it is not this floating cheaper. Because if you compare pears and apples, then it can be I don't know, apples cheaper than pears, but if you bring things to a level and say no to 2.5 BSM, but 6.5 BSM of land and floating, then we'll see when we compare the cost of construction and operating costs that the land terminal is cheaper. Let's not forget that in floating Please vote. [[Intruder Jandroković: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84282	We're going to the SDP counseling club, Amendment No. 28.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84283	Thank you. Amendment No. 28 unacceptable. We have considered the same, and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84284	Here you go, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think my colleague Klisovic actually came up with a good topic here in his explanation before. And that's actually how much the project of building LNG terminals on the island of Krk has. In fact, part of the document says that there are four phases, the part says that there are two phases, that the first phase is floating, the second is some half-earth, etc., etc. But what we can't find in any document is how much the total project of building LNG terminals on the island of Krk costs. Why are there claims that the construction of a floating LNG terminal cheaper than land if the study of the macroeconomic effects of the natural gas ingested terminal on the island of Krk from 2016 claims that it is not. Why is the public being deceived and compared to twice the land terminal compared to floating only to make the land cheaper? Why don't we read the data that building a land terminal would engage three times as many domestic construction operations as a floating one? Why does the Government of the Republic of Croatia consciously want to provide more money to foreign builders or shipbuilders than to domestic ones? Whose is it, colleagues and colleagues? And in the end, we come to a famous article. 12. Whose wipe and suggest. Therefore, with its public appearances, LNG Croatia has consistently assured that the LNG terminal project, a floating terminal, is a commercial project intended for customers primarily outside the Republic of Croatia and that it is profitable. These are the same instructions during the presentation of an environmental impact study. Now, in the absence of adequate customer interest, the project is now declared a strategic gas source in the event of an end to supply, which would mean that Croatian citizens will compensate for the difference that will result from unrenowned capacity. We're putting everything back on the Croatian citizens. I'm asking you again whose interest, whom it pleases, where the law was written. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84286	Let's go to Amendment No. 29 of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84287	Thank you. Amendment No. 29 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted. The proposer considered the amendment and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84288	A colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84289	Thank you very much. So, all the time, the government cites some of its arguments that are not true, which are false and all the time is misleading citizens primarily of the Primorje-Gorski County, and one evidence is this very explanation of the amendment. So here's the Secretary of State Mr. Milatić's statement of amendment no. 27 talked about the crew, about the laws under which Croatian sailors would have to be inside as an explanation for why the amendment was rejected, and the amendment was proposed to be in the article. 1. Deletes the letter from the first sentence. So, what does a letter have to do with what you just said? It is Mr. Milatić's argument that he would try to pair up our debate, but he is already falsely giving arguments that have nothing to do with the amendments that we have proposed. So it is another proof that essentially this government and its representatives not only lie on the laws, not only lie with what they send messages to the Croatian public but also here, but also lie on the reasons of these amendments. If Mr. Milatić may have read something wrong here, then I apologize, but please give us an explanation of Amendment No. 27 or now to give on some next number what we suggested. Or to explain to me again when the next amendment what links the laws on Croatian crews on ships have to do with the change of letters and in the sentence, the first sentence of Art. The first of this law. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84290	Comrade Djujic, I'm just asking you to pick your words a little bit because she's lying and so... Don't do that. And the other thing, let me warn you. So you're now insisting that he hasn't interpreted the amendment well enough. In no way do you comment on the amendment, but you speak for two minutes in general, and I have not objected to it once. So please don't do double standards, double criteria. I've left you two minutes to talk about the law as a whole, not a single amendment, and now you're calling a government official because he did it once in these 29 situations. Now let's go to Amendment No. 30 of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84291	Thank you. Amendment No. 30 won't be accepted. We have considered the same, and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84292	Here you go, pal Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84293	Thank you very much. You'd better accept our amendments because at least technically this unconstitutional law would be better. I can't believe how they place the untruths in this assembly, and that's what I'm just shocked about. So on several occasions it's said that there's some kind of phase construction and that the phase construction is in the spatial plan. So, the truth is, it's 2010. The LNG land terminal entered the spatial plan and that the project was also being worked intensively by the HDZ government in collaboration with the Omisalj municipality at the time, in 2007 and 2009, and the phase construction was foreseen for a land terminal to operate from less to greater capacity. There is no floating LNG terminal in that phase construction. It is a lie and can't be called different and milder than to be a lie and to be lied to by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's unforgivable. This whole law, this entire lex LNG is one big scam, one big lie, one threatening floating disaster that can destroy the tourism of the municipality of Omisalj, the island of Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County. It is unacceptable, it is against the interest of the Republic of Croatia, against the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia because tourism is certainly the most strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84294	Let's go to Amendment No. 31, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84295	Thank you. Amendment No. 31. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The explanation, the applicant discussed the amendment and is not aimed at better nomotetechnical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84296	A colleague of Klisovic's, then a colleague of Bunjac's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84297	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Here I would like to refer to this famous article 12, which also mentioned fellow Highdukovic, he sought his erasure as well as the SDP Club. So it's about this famous business security fee. If the terminal operator's income is less than expected, then Croatia's citizens will have to cover it. And now, since the citizens of Croatia will actually at least use LNG terminal gas, a legitimate question is asked and why would it be so. Number 1. I would also like to know from the Secretary of State whether you may have examined the possibility of such costs being covered by some EU sources. Since this LNG terminal, a land-based, floating in the role of European energy security, should not be borne by the citizens of Croatia alone then, the costs of its inert business, whether there are possibilities to settle these costs from European funds, that is one thing. And the other thing that came to my eyes is, you give concessions to 99 years of companies, a company that owns HEP and PLINACRO. How we can hear through the media that these companies are forecasting for privatisation is now asking a legitimate question to whom in this second step, in this second phase they will actually benefit or cover the costs of non-renewable business. Then LNG Croatia becomes a very lucrative, golden coke from which one will certainly be able to do business and without any business risk or sweating as all entrepreneurs work to support and survive on the Croatian market will simply do what they want and everything they lack will be upgraded by the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's not exactly correct, and I don't know how the government got into such a trap. Thank you. And I'm asking for a vote, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84298	Okay. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.40 HOURS]] Comrade Stazic, behave yourself, I know you're not doing it, but I'd like to ask you to be like that. Here you go, colleague Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84300	Thank you. Amendment number 32 is not accepted. We have considered the same, and we believe that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84301	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84302	Thank you. What amendment are we on? 32, good. [[/Intruder: 32.]] So, Mr. President, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, since the mij is disabled from using information aids to explain the amendments and considering how to still present the voice of citizens to the Republic of Croatia, I will have to quote their speeches so that I can reproduce them. Unfortunately, I don't think I'm going to be as convincing as they would be to let them on speakerphone, but not wanting to risk another reminder by taking a word, wanting to continue discussing this topic, then during the next few hundred amendments, I'm going to use that ability to reproduce their speeches so I'm going to have to put on headphones and, as Mladen Delic, and I'm just wondering, "Is that possible" that we have to do so when you interpret such a Rules of Procedure. So, the first to be presented is Mrs Ana Svetina, a graduate economist, opposed to a floating LNG because of her family and children who can no longer bathe in their beautiful sea after the ship drops tons of varicine into the sea. Her family deals with renting apartments, tourism in Omislje grows from day to day and now we will... It's all ruined. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am for tourism, purity of nature, sea of plants and animals and respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and local self-government. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84303	We're going to Amendment number 33, same club reps.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84304	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84306	Thank you. Next is Mrs. Adriana Tomljenovic, a saleswoman in the Omisk Press. She said how old she was, but we're not gonna say it. She says she's seen all kinds of projects that were of strategic importance in the former state and today, around them are copper, the DINA facility, JANAF, millions of things that never came back to life and didn't agree with anyone. There are currently many new tanks being built on JANAF that are not built by our people, but by people from neighbouring countries because they made the best offer. Peace is being broken, nature is being disrupted, everything is being broken, and the wind is blowing because it's already practically done. In any case, not in Croatia's interest, not in Croatia's interest, but in someone on the outside. If tourism and industry go into synergy, it's good for them. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84307	Amendment number 34 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84308	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84309	Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84310	Thank you, Mr. President. Now that I've just been criticised for not sticking to the amendment, I'm going to stick to the amendment. In this amendment, we have therefore proposed that the word “secret ” be deleted in Article 1. Why did we suggest that? Because we don't want secret interests in proposing and adopting this law, we don't want secret arrangements under the table related to the LNG terminal project. We don't think there's any need to keep in mind how ecological the threat to this end of this project is. We don't think it should be a secret how many people will work in a floating LNG terminal and how many would work in a fixed one. It should not be a secret that the fixed LNG terminal is cheaper and better for more reasons than floating, and it is no secret that all PGG residents are against this form of LNG floating, it is not a secret that there has been a consensus of all political options, it is not a secret that in this project there are anti-floating stories and Croatian defenders, even representatives of the PGZ HDZ in our assembly, it is not a secret that unfortunately this project will support HDZ representatives from the PGZ, and therefore we have proposed this amendment because we want to remove all the secrecy codes related to the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84311	You're looking for a vote. 35th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84312	Thank you. Amendment number 35 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. We've considered you, and we don't think it's directed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84313	A colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84314	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So when we talk and we have to do it again because they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, here let me as a former professor to repeat some things, so Omisalj as a location for the LNG terminal was considered only in the context of the land LNG terminal. So the local community agreed, all agreed that Omishal could serve in that case as a location. But the decision to go on a floating LNG terminal has completely changed this picture, mobilized the entire local community, against it, against this project, and why and what the reasons we've already said several times. So I would refer first of all to those economic ones, since the inhabitants of Omis and Krka generally make significant revenues from tourism. So if we're considering a floating terminal as a solution, then Omishal is definitely not a location for that. In a conversation with experts and those who are more focused on this topic, they told me that there are a whole series of other locations that would be more appropriate for a project like this, if we are considering it at all. There are also floating terminals, and there are floating terminals, i.e. there are several versions and ways that floating terminals can be implemented, or realised, and we chose the worst version. So according to what experts say about the worst version of the environment, the worst version of technology, so technology that is already light and outdated. And at the end of the day we have to wonder again why we have lex LNG? When we have the Strategic Investments Act, if this is a strategic investment for the Republic of Croatia, we could have implemented it under that law. I repeat, by reviewing the location for a floating terminal like this, it is certainly not Omisalj. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84315	We're going to Amendment 36 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84316	Thank you. Amendment number 36 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered the same and believes that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84317	Here you go, pal Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84318	Thank you very much. Here is still no respect for the interests of the citizens of Omis, no wish to let go of their voice, so I will also read the decisions of the Municipal Council. Therefore, the Municipal Council disagrees with the construction of the proposed project of a floating LNG terminal, because the kind offered for the municipality of Omisalj is economically harmful and ecologically risky. We believe that the environmental impact study is done on the surface and that it is not fully and professionally based precisely on the aspect of economic impact and environmental conservation, as the project seriously endangers dominant economic activity and tourism. Construction of the proposed floating LNG terminal reduces the ability to use, and even prevents the use of the area planned for industry, the area of the former DINA Petrochemy. At the same time, it expands the industrial zone, which we find irrational and unacceptable. The municipal council expects the municipal chief and representatives of the VIII electoral unit to take all political and legal procedures to protect the tourism economy and their current, very significant investments. Here are my SDP and VIII representatives. Election units, in cooperation with other colleagues, are doing exactly what the municipal council has asked us to do. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84319	Now let's go to Amendment 37, same club reps.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84320	Thank you. Amendment number 37 is not accepted. Reason: The applicant considered these amendments and considered them to be the same as not aimed at better nomotechnical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84321	Comrade Klisovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84322	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. I would once again like to draw attention to this fact that the bill directly and without a tender grants a concession to a 99-year-old company that is actually owned by HEP and Plinar, and these companies are intended for privatisation. Now we know that for LNG Croatia, whether it's land or other, floating, it's very interested in the Russian Federation, or companies from that country. We know that companies from that country are also interested in buying INA from the Hungarian MOL. We know that companies, or banks from that state, will soon become the owners of Agrokora, Sberbank 40%, the VTB bank says 10%. Now my question to the Government is, when working on these issues, I must first say that Russian capital is welcome in Croatia, that there is no doubt, but do we want as Croatia, as a country, to put all the eggs in one basket? Do we, as a country, want to have only one strategic partner in the economy? Not to say that the first gas company has very good connections with Gazprom, also the Russian company, that Petrochemy depends on its gas, etc., etc. Is the government also considering the external political aspects of LNG terminals? The prime minister is very well aware of foreign policy, I would ask you to give him the attention and the dimension of this business, so it is not just about energy, it is not just about capital and money, business, it is about the foreign political strategic interest of Croatia, that is how it can change, if all these companies that I mentioned come under Russian control, or come under the control of a country. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84323	Thank you. We're going to amendment number 38 of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84324	Thank you. Amendment number 38 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. Reason: The applicant has considered the same and considers that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84325	Here you go, Comrade Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84326	Thank you very much, President. We have suggested that Article 1 deletes the word bearer and we have proposed this because the decision-maker must not make decisions contrary to the wishes and will of the people to whom these decisions apply, which in this particular case the Government is doing, and that again imposes one solution that is not acceptable to the local community which is not in line with our spatial plans and we will repeat it here 380 times today, because you obviously cannot hear it all this time. And not only that, but other than the citizens of the coastal-goran county and primarily the island of Krk disagree, there are several arguments that confirm why their disagreement is essentially right. So one of these arguments is that LNG floating against which we are down there with our dimensions, looks and the way it will be anchored there will certainly endanger the tourism of the island of Krk and all cities and municipalities in that area. And when we know that the share of the island of Krk is 10% in the total tourism of Croatia, i.e., the share of tourism in Primorje goranje County is 10% of the total share of tourism in the Republic of Croatia, then we know that such a solution certainly endangers the functioning of the entire Croatian tourism. On the other hand, one of the illogicalities again. Apart from what I've already said here, it's amazing to me, that the representatives of the Primorje Mountain County of HDZ will vote for this law, it's amazing to me, that so far we haven't heard the Minister of Tourism, who also comes from the Primorje Mountain County and who every weekend when he travels home, when he rides over a bridge, for the ferry to Lošinj will have to look at that uglyness and will have to watch it every day and we're not clear that he's keeping his mouth shut all the time. Here, we'd like to hear him, too, but that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84327	Thank you. We're going to the Club of Representatives of the SDP and Amendment number 39.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84328	Thank you. Amendment No. 39 Representatives' SDP clubs are not accepted. The applicant considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84329	A colleague of Hajdukovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Kola Klisovic talked about the external political and geo strategic implications of this project, they are certainly not inescapable. But what I'm interested in is who pays and who costs you a geo strategic position and positioning the Republic of Croatia. If I am not mistaken, exactly my colleague Klisovic mentioned the project is in the interest of the EU and our neighbours and of course we as part of the EU, we absolutely want to contribute to diversifying natural gas sources, as well as strategic geopolitical security as such. However, it is unacceptable that the costs, the potential costs of non-commerciality of the project, are borne exclusively by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. If this is of common interest, if it is from the price of the Union, the region, the wider, the rope, it is not even relevant now, then it would be fair, that the costs are borne by those who will benefit from it, except for the Republic of Croatia. The EU has provided for some funding to build this terminal, but in the long run, unoccupied costs should be borne by Croatian citizens. And colleague Curaj, if you're going to explain to the Croatian citizens why they pay for more expensive gas, go ahead, but I don't want to. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84331	Okay. Now, a colleague from the HSS called, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84332	CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.12 HOURS Now we're going to move on to Amendment 40. [[Home is not saved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84333	Amendment number 40 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The reason is that the applicant considered the same and believes that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84334	Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84335	It's strange, Secretary of State, this persistent refusal of all our amendments. It came to you because the promoter did not want to accept our proposal for a second reading. But here's that second reading, as we can see, it's still happening. For us on much more favourable terms. Today in this second reading, our reading, we can only speak for ourselves. And citizens from Omis and Krka. And we will take that opportunity to show the rulings how stupid it is to reject opposition's proposals for another reading is to go worse because they no longer have the right to interfere with that debate, because they could only send you here to do the same sentence, the same phrase you say, 100 times, by 300 times how many amendments there will be and they can't really say anything in their defense. We're going to use this second reading to explain to the citizens who are monitoring this transmission what damage you're doing, what damage you're doing, who you're doing it to and whose interests you're doing it for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84336	Thank you. Moving to Amendment 41.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84337	Thank you. Amendment number 40 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The reason is that the applicant considered the same and believes that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84338	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84339	The amendment concerns Article 1. Article 1 states that this law is adopted in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. It is quite evident that it is incorrect because how can the interest of the Republic of Croatia harm a part of its citizens? Harm the citizens of the island of Krk. What does the Republic of Croatia have against the citizens of the island of Krk? So that her interest would be to ruin them. So it's a complete lie. There was a debate on the land terminal against the floating, for which local self-government, these same citizens who gave consent against this floating solution to which all possible permits were issued and which could be worked, to build cheaper and safer. And then you could talk about the interest of the Republic of Croatia. But that interest of the Republic of Croatia, you have put aside, completely, to protect someone else's interest. I ask you, do you know the Secretary of State, whose? Whose interest, because someone's interest is being protected. Who's gonna make a living buying that ugly old ship that's gonna drag her there? Who's gonna make money on that? Who's going to make a living destroying the environment because someone wants to, so why else would it work illogically if someone didn't put money in their pocket, so they put it in the FIMI media, so they put it in when they were doing highways. Well, there's no job one of them hasn't put the money on. So you'll be back in court tomorrow? Because someone's going to court for this. Well, this isn't just gonna go away. They'll find out who stole it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84340	Thank you. Moving to Amendment 42.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84341	Thank you. Amendment 42 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted because the applicant has considered the same and considers that it does not contribute to a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84342	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84343	Here's the secretary of state. I'll pick up where I left off. And I ask you, will you go? Why do you accept that responsibility? You can stop it right now and say I don't want to defend such a dangerous, so damaging, so stupid, so bad law anymore. There were state secretaries who had the nerve in this government at half the press conference to rise up and say what was offered, not demographic policy. This is one story that doesn't serve anything and that rose up like this from a microphone and went to the press outside. And you're in front of the press, and you're in front of the public. I invite you to defend your honor and simply leave this booth. Let the minister come, let the prime minister come, let those who will put the money in their pocket for such a poisonous and bad solution after the Republic of Croatia. Let them come, so why should you be ashamed here? So why should you do time for them tomorrow? And I'm telling you when this comes to court like it's all been brought to court, all their jobs have come to trial, none of them have any crime, no robbery, no one. So don't do this to yourself, don't do this to your family.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84344	We're moving on to Amendment 43.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84345	Amendment No 43 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant has considered and considers that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84346	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84347	So by refusing all these amendments and including this SDP, you're doing something you may not be aware of. You encourage emigration from the Republic of Croatia because who's crazy to stay in the country where his government passed laws and conducts proceedings against his life interest? Life's interest. So make sure he goes to Ireland, to Germany, to Sweden, there can't happen to them. Well, there's no way that, contrary to the will of the local community, let the federal government go to work on a dangerous terminal that poisons the environment. So if nothing else is guaranteed to them, and they are guaranteed a higher salary and a better standard than here in Croatia because they do not have to, there do not have privileged groups to enrol in schools, the right to employment, they do not. That's where the citizens are equal. But aside and profit, aside and equality. It will not happen to them that governments and not even governments of their nations, the governments of foreign nations will take greater care of them than you and the government you belong to. You're instigating emigration, and you need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84348	Moving to Amendment No. 44 MPs of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84349	Thank you. Amendment No. 40 SDP representatives clubs are not accepted. The applicant considered the amendment and considered that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84350	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84351	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm not sure the Secretary of State explained the real amendment. It's about my amendment that can't be nomotechnically out of line. So whether he read the right explanation or not, first I'd ask for it as an explanation, then I can comment on the rest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84352	Number... Representatives' club, number 44. ... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84353	No, this is my colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84354	I'm sorry, it's here, I'm sorry if it's there, then there's a lapus here in the table.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84355	So, Mr. Secretary of State, you answer to the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84356	Yeah, well, I can see it now, but it says the SDP's Club of Representatives. I apologize, Mr. Hajdukovic was supposed to write there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84357	So it's the same argument? Okay. Okay, I don't see nomotechnic indetermination in erasing words relating to the location of the LNG terminal itself. So I've spoken before, when we consider the location of a floating LNG terminal, then Omisalj is definitely not the location where he should be. Land, yes, floating not. Speaking to experts, they told me that there are several locations that we can consider for a floating LNG terminal that, first of all, would not question tourism, so they would not refute the island’s appearance or have a negative effect on tourism. But there are also locations that would be better prepared in infrastructure so that LNG terminal gas can be distributed more logistically wherever it is needed. I will draw your attention to the fact that the port of Rijeka, or that the terminal that exists there, has not yet solved the technology for the transfer of ingested natural gas from ships, or hence, from the pipeline to which it will arrive from LNG terminal to train or to railways that should further distribute it. So it's another big project and a problem that hasn't been solved, and we're falling into this solution without solving the main predispositions that need to be satisfied in order to get this kind of project going. Therefore, all my amendments that will go in this direction are going to delete the provisions which are mentioned in the words of the island of Krk, Rijeka and Omisalj in order to leave the possibility. So here I'm trying to be constructive, leave the possibility if we go to a floating LNG terminal solution not to be in the Omistry. I'd like a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84358	Moving to Amendment No. 45th Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84359	Thank you. Amendment No. 45 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted. The applicant considered it and considered it not to be a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84360	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84361	Now we're gonna change our tactics a little bit. Since you don't care what the citizens think about it, and we're extremely interested, and you've banned us from playing their videos, their opinions, we're going to convince them here. For example, let's start with Morana Ceausevic. Doctor of the history of archaeology, professor for late Antique and Middle Ages at the University of France with permanent residence in Omislje, Krk, longtime head of archaeological research. And it is currently absolutely against the LNG floating terminal project for the simple reason that I believe it is absolutely disproportionate to other installations and the entire infrastructure and municipalities of Omisalj island of Krk and finally the Kvarner and our Adriatic coast. And locally, I believe that such an installation would completely destroy any other project of valorisation and tourism development that can be based on the cultural heritage of our municipality. So our entire effort to protect that heritage falls into the water and everything loses its meaning. That's what he tells you, so as you can see, scientist Morana Ceausevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84362	Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 46 [[I'm looking for a vote.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84363	Thank you. Amendment No. 46 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted. The applicant considered it and considered it not to be a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84364	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84365	Here, since citizens do not want to hear the opinion, I will read a few decisions that have shown to what extent the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly is taking care of this project, advocates the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia and supports the Land LNG Terminal. So the coastal-goran County supports all strategic projects of the Republic of Croatia that do not have a negative impact on the environment and on existing economic activities, particularly on tourism and those that permanently bring economic profits to the local and regional communities. It is found that the floating LNG terminal operation as shown in the environmental impact study, changes to the reception terminal for ingested gas on the island of Krk, the introduction of a floating terminal phase for acceptable storage and implantation, is not acceptable for the coastal-goran County because it has negative impacts on the landscape, sea and use of space and does not bring benefits to the local and regional community. The coastal-goran County therefore supports the continuation of the land LNG terminal project, for which a solution was adopted on the acceptability of environmental procedures and a local authorisation was issued. Everything else that is done is contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, it is contrary to all the decisions of the Omisalj Municipal Council and the Assembly of the coastal-goran County, which were adopted without any vote against, with the commonity of all political parties operating in the area of Krka, Omis and the coastal-goran County and therefore requesting a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84366	Moving to Amendment 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84367	Thank you. Amendment 47 The SDP representative club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84368	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84369	.../Speaker disabled./... My name is Allen Grego, councilman of the Omisalj municipality himself, I'm against LNG for a lot of reasons, and one of the big ones is that it's environmentally unacceptable number one, number two, financially invaluable in any way, and today we know how invaluable it ends. They'll never get rid of that LNG, and they'll fail, so we're... In Bakru, that's how it's all about us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So as he goes, he goes, and when he doesn't, goodbye. There's only one camp carrying twice as much money as we're going to get from LNG terminals as we're going to do as a municipality of Omisalj so you can make us some Gardaland,... It would bring more money than LNG, which will certainly fail because it doesn't make sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Russians have brought oil into the south current that has failed because of our government, we have destroyed everything. Now we're going into the cheapest possible variant of floating LNG, so even the more expensive variant of floating is not in the idea, but the cheapest solution of floating LNG. So that's what the councilman of the community thinks, that's what those of you who don't think about, they fuck for them, they're nothing to you, no matter what citizens of the Republic, so they think that refugees have come from anywhere, they'd have more care than they have from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84370	Thank you very much. We're moving on to amendment number 48.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84371	Thank you. Amendment No 48 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84372	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84373	Thank you very much. So I have already spoken on several occasions about the union of political parties operating in the coastal-goran county, so I must here today, because the public is looking at this, read the conclusion of the tenth session of the County Assembly of the coastal-goranska County since 29 March 2018, which was adopted without any vote against, which states that the study is called the macroeconomic effects of the natural gas terminal on the island of Krk co-financed by the European Commission and for LNG Croatia d.o.o. made by Ekonerg d.o.o. With regard to location, security, environmental impact and overall economic impacts, the Commission has undoubtedly demonstrated an advantage in selecting a land terminal variant compared to a floating LNG terminal variant. The mayor of the coastal-goran County is hereby authorised to launch a administrative dispute against the environmental acceptability solution, changes to the reception terminal on the island of Krk, by introducing a phase of the floating terminal for reception, storage and integration. The Primorje-Gorski County will also consider calling an advisory referendum on the LNG terminal project. So we will do whatever it takes to protect the interests of the citizens of Omis, Krka, the coastal-goran County, as well as the whole of Croatia in view of the controversial articles 6 and 12 that directly damage all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84374	We move to Amendment 49 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84375	Thank you. Amendment 49 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84376	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84377	Your rejection of the amendment is pointless, but by law and proposal of this project, it's completely pointless. I'm going to talk about human poisoning, an important topic. 300 tons of varicine, secretary of state, knightly respected, I invite you to place a drop of the varicine on your hand, a single drop, and wait for what happens, how many furnaces and how it will damage your skin. 300 tons of weeds you mean drop in the sea at Omis, poison the citizens, poison the children there, whatever your right? Well, the last one that poisoned him was Hitler, who poisoned him like that, and you're not going to cyclotronic, but you're going to be ingested with gas and varicine. Well, that's an inadmissible crime. The land terminal does not require any variation, does not require any variation. Everything is possible on land, without pollution of the sea and without poisoning of the citizens. Whoever in this country, whoever you are right to 300 tons of varicine poison citizens, that's what you're telling me, Secretary of State. Answer that question to the citizens of Krk and Omis. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84378	Moving to Amendment No. Fifty.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84379	Thank you. Amendment No. Fifty. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The explanation, if it works at full capacity, will come out a little more than 5 tonnes of residual chlorine, which stops within 400 metres of the terminal and is immeasurable after that round while during one year from the sewerage of the Omisalj municipality comes out 104 tonnes of biochemically unprocessed sewage waste water, which has far more chlorine and varicine, taking into account the fact of how much varicina is spent on cleaning stones in sanitary nodes and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84380	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84381	Secretary of State, you're defending the use of the currency I hear in the rejection of this amendment of yours. So you stand firm in the view that people need to be poisoned with varicose. Well, that's just unheard of. So I thought you'd refuse this amendment too with some common phrase that they wrote to you and that you say all the time. But no, you dare say that, we'll poison further, we'll throw the varicine, we'll poison people, and we have the right to do so. So I invite you, go there, I'll call the citizens I think they're spraying you with a variation, you, your children, all the members of the government, to see how brave you are when you claim that the amount of varicella is not a danger. Not for you, so no one will poison you, so your children will not be poisoned, but the children will. And that's why we raise our voice against it. As we raised our voice against fascism and the use of cyclotron and human poisoning, so we raise our voice now and against you and against your currency which you claim to be God's day. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84382	The next amendment is No. 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84383	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84384	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84385	Thank you very much. Another information that will shock probably all those present here and also citizens especially watching today's broadcast. So this environmental impact study in one part of it is completely missing, so sensitivity to meteor conditions. My colleagues and colleagues are particularly sensitive to the wind from 6 to 7 bofores. At that moment, the conditions are very critical and this ship must be untied. Do you know how many days a year in that area the wind blows from six to seven bofors? 200 days a year. So this also shows to what extent this study is missing, poorly done and actually done with the task of masking conflicts of interest again. So after the epic conflict of interest that we received in lex Agrokor, which is why we now write a law that will no longer be the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, but the law on the concealment of the HDZ conflict of interest we also have a lex LNG that unites all of it. So it is unacceptable for this law to be voted in this form in the Croatian Parliament, it is harmful for all Croatian citizens. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84386	Here's a colleague of Bull's who's been injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84387	Thank you very much. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 18, we today laid flowers in front of St. Joseph here, down here, however, since the anniversary of 1867 this Assembly declared St. Joseph, a protector of the Croatian people unanimously, but someone removed those flowers. The Rules of Procedure of Article 18 have been broken and the flowers in front of St. Joseph, protector of the Croatian people. We've set it up, we can't see it's mine, it's not explosives, it's terrorism, we're in front of the protector, I repeat, St. Josepha, lay the flowers what it is. And whoever ordered it, I'm asking the question of who bothers the flowers in front of St. Joseph, protector of the Croatian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84388	Thank you very much. My colleague Bulj, Article 18, has absolutely nothing to do with this, but I fully agree with you that and I don't understand why those flowers were removed, I have to admit I didn't see it, I don't understand why it was removed and I don't think it should be removed. But as far as the article's concerned, you've got to admit to the hoot.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84389	Please read, professional services that have to help, not get away. I'm interested in the professional services of who he is, who's bothered by the flowers at St. Joseph the Protector of the Croatian People in 1867.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84390	I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84391	This Parliament is unanimous, so... It's been years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84392	Comrade Bull, I'm giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84393	Why? ... Injure the Rules of Procedure, please read. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84394	Because you speak without permission, which is why I gave you, so I gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84395	Read the article, please, what the article says. A representative may request that professional services assist him in his conduct, they have removed him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84396	My colleague Bulj will receive a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84397	Why a warning, for what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84398	Because you speak without permission.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84399	And you're telling the truth that I didn't hit the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84400	Comrade Bull, if you think I'm wrong, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84401	Well, you have a problem with the flowers in front of St. Joseph.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84402	I just told you that I think it's wrong whoever did it and that it's not right. but that it was you who misquoted the article. [[Well, the flowers are removed from St. Josipa, protector of the Croatian people, tomorrow is the anniversary, 9, 10.]] And please don't. Okay, let's go to Amendment No. 52. [[Intruder Bulj: So please nicely, here I will read article 18. So you will see, help professional services.]] SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84403	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The applicant considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84404	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84405	They'll need candles, they'll need candles, not just for St. Joseph, he will need candles on graves, all those who will be poisoned, when this law comes into force and when funerals begin. In addition to this law, to make one nursery, it will take a nursery, to have people have enough flowers to carry to the graves of their loved ones, whom you will poison, without any remorse. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84406	We're moving on to Art. 53. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84407	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter A SDP representative club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and considered it not to be a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84408	Of course, please... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84409	Thank you, Vice President. So, we're gonna use this rejection one more time to say it bothers you with the flowers at St. Josipa, but you do not mind floating LNG terminal on the island of Krk. Another reason, I will repeat again, the share of the Primorje Mountain County in the total share of tourism in the Republic of Croatia is 10%. The biggest tragedy is that the tourism minister comes from the Primorian Mountain County, and what he thinks about this issue, has not come out since the start of pushing this law and from the first indications that the law will start in the process. Not only that, but if this law passes on Thursday, when that ship gets where it should go, the tourism minister will go home every Friday, on the weekend, on a karst bridge to the Lošinj ferry and watch that ugly thing. I do not know how he will explain to his locals in Losinj, on the island of Krk, the people who pass through and the inhabitants of the Primorje Mountain County, that he has kept silent about this problem in his portfolio, and the 10% share in the revenues of Croatia's total tourism is not small and that is what this project means is jeopardising the total tourism of the Republic of Croatia and the significant amount of our revenues. And the Minister of Tourism should say something about it anyway. And what we expect in the next 5.6 days until the vote on this law, the tourism minister makes it loud and clear what he thinks about this law. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84410	Thank you. All I have to do is correct you, you started by bothering me with the flowers in front of St. Josepha, I've said it twice, but I think it's inappropriate, but you told me it's inappropriate to move... moving flowers. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] How do you know that the ruling has been removed, not by someone else? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next amendment is number 54. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84411	Amendment No. 54 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted. The applicant considered it and considered it not to be a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84412	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84413	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Secretary of State. What I'm going to talk about right now is transparency. When we held the debate, unfortunately only in one reading of this law, we were constantly talking about how the whole process shows an extremely lack of transparency. The minister and you said it wasn't true. See the tender documentation published on the website of LNG Croatia. And what did we do? We went to LNG Croatia. And could we get there and look at the tender documentation? We didn't. Neither we nor the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And even if we could look at her, we wouldn't be able to talk about her publicly in the Parliament. Because the condition to get the paperwork is to sign a confidentiality statement. So, here today, we are talking about a law whose kindness will have exceptional consequences on Krk, about the Primorian Mountain County, according to Istria, by all those who are populated and oriented towards Kvarner. And the key documents, which concern this matter, excuse me, the key information, which concerns it, are hidden in the documentation, which you can only get if you sign a confidentiality statement. I ask you, is this, in your opinion, a transparent and democratic way, the conduct of this process. If you're asking me, it's not, and that's why we're asking for a vote on this course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84414	Thank you. Moving to Amendment No. 55 SDP representatives' clubs seeking to delete words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84415	Thank you. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the applicant and considers that it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84416	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84417	As we have established in this entire procedure there is no transparency. There is no transparency in conduct, there is no transparency in making, and ask God where there will be transparency in realisation. In this case and in this law, key questions are being asked. Who was involved in the preparation? Whether or not a group will appear here tomorrow, which will be the government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the powers that you want to assign to this law, without having to conduct an appropriate procedure, without public insight into all this, are subject to ownership rights in the investor in the company LNG Croatia. So let's do it again, we during the debate, pointed to dangers that concern the age of the ship, technology, etc. The answer you personally gave, Mr. Secretary of State and Minister, who after about an hour, an hour and a half of debate, we welcome to appear in the Croatian Parliament has always been easy. Go to the LNG Croatia website and see the tender documentation. So we cannot reach this tender documentation, you have not even accepted the proof of your claims to submit this tender documentation to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I want to be denied, and do you know why? Because if you deny my claims to documents that will show that what you are showing, behind which you are standing is correct, we will remove at least one part of the concern that exists among the citizens of Krk, citizens of the entire coastal-goran county, citizens of Istria, but you do not, you do not. And you leave that concern alive. And if you go to that Omisalj and if you look around you, look where that floating LNG terminal should be, your concern should be very clear. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84418	Thank you. We move to Amendment number 56 of the SDP Representatives Club, which requires that words be deleted... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84419	Thank you. Amendment number 56 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84420	Dear Representative Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84421	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So given the quantities of variations that will be dropped into the sea, I think the new tourist slogan of the Krka tourist community will in future only the Krka bathers have the privilege of being clean and tight after swimming on our beaches. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84422	We move to Amendment 57 of the SDP Representatives Clubs, which are asked to delete words.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84423	Thank you. Amendment No 57 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84424	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84425	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I'm going to make up for what my esteemed colleague Matic said. This law regulates many things, for example, the ability of the investor to pollute the environment of Krk, regulates the ability of the investor to influence, and negatively, on the health of people living in the area where the floating LNG terminal will be placed, but the obligation of the Republic of Croatia is also regulated, and the Honorable Secretary of State has said that it will not go through the price, means it will go from the budget through taxes, through other taxes that all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have, is governed by the obligation of the Croatian investor to compensate for the shortfall in profits with which he entered the entire project. So that's exactly what we're doing with this. We're sorting out a non-commercial project that we'll all be paying for. And then we're talking about the strategic project of the Republic of Croatia, and there's no reason why it's a strategic interest, there's no argument here, there's 3 and a half pages in all the expensive explanation of this law, and there's nothing to say about an emergency procedure except that we have to bring it in quickly, although it's a project that's been realised, or it's trying to realize for 20 years, but no, in June 2018, we have to realize it through the night. And of course we're against such an arrangement and of course that's why we're asking for this kind of arrangement that you've proposed to delete and, of course, we insist on voting on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84426	We move to Amendment number 58 of the SDP Representatives Club, which is required to delete the port's words.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84427	Thank you. Amendment number 58 is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84428	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84429	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Why the bow? Well, it's because we're trying to create another port in this area that we're going to bring to Croatia who knows what they appreciate. So we got a cat in the bag here. We here have a floating LNG terminal that we're not sure anyone's going to cross over at all. So what kind of port, the port that stands, the port that we've invested millions in, but not only when we've built it, but every year when we're going to have to pay the millions to manage it, that's the port and that kind of port we can't accept in the SDP, which is why we're looking to erase those words, but of course it's not enough. What we are looking for is summed up in an amendment that will come to an end, and the amendment does not come into force. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84430	We are going to the amendment number 59 of the SDP Representatives Club, which requires that the words of the concession be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84431	Thank you. Amendment number 59 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84432	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84433	Thank you very much. I don't know, Mr. Vice President, why you keep saying every amendment what's required, what's not required, there's a representative of the government, but okay. We are asking to delete the word concession because we do not want a concession on a floating ship that will revile the entire region, which will ecologically devastate that part of the island of Krk and that part of the coastal-Gorski County, but we want the government to simply act in accordance with spatial planning documentation and the municipalities of Omisalj and the coastal-Gorski County and to move towards achieving its energy independence through a fixed LNG terminal project. A fixed LNG terminal, except as more environmentally acceptable than a floating one, except that it is more financially profitable than floating, would use local construction operations from which local entrepreneurs, local companies, the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, to build a fixed LNG terminal would use a domicile workforce, while a floating one does not have to be so, since it is a ship and that the crew is used on board, if there are no workers there, I will say it again. So when you look at all the arguments why floating, fixed, all the facts prevail on fixed and it's not true that citizens by giving up this form of LNG will run out of gas, that they won't have it anymore, they can have it through a fixed terminal. So, accept that project that all citizens of the Primorje-Gorski County, residents of the island of Krk, all political options, defense associations, literally no one is down there and the fish agree with this fixed part, not floating, which is why we are asking for a vote on this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84434	Next amendment, you meant to say the amendment, but fine. The next amendment is No. 60 SDP representatives' clubs seeking to delete the word market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84435	Thank you. Amendment No. 60 SDPs are not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84436	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84437	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, take the opportunity to do so with each amendment and tell me what kind of market it is in which, in order for it to work, the Republic of Croatia must assume the obligation to pay compensation to the person acting on that market. It is not a market, it is a state interventionism, state interventionism without cover, which will be paid by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And when we know that national interventionism is involved with HDZ, then there's a legitimate reason to be afraid that there will be some fraud here. I'll read you an article. 6th, St. 2. The change in investor ownership structure is governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision or by the conclusion of a change in ownership structure. Mr. Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Tell me what kind of market it is in which decisions are not made on the basis of any market indicators where decisions are not made on the basis of any market values, but solely on the basis of an assessment by the Government and the Minister who comes from the HDZ which has the possibility not to say Pharaohska, propose, and then, through the Government, change the ownership structure of investors without conducting any procedure, without any restrictions, without any transparency, without any procedures, brakes and other barriers preventing the abuse that exists in other laws. When I read this, and I know your history, I get angry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84438	Thank you. We will now return to the amendments, and this amendment 61 of the SDP Representatives Club, which suggests erasing the word "execution".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84440	... The SDP is not accepted. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] The promoter considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84441	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84442	I'll proceed to what Mrs. Strenja said. The importance of tourism. The prime minister boasts either yesterday that we expect an even bigger tourist season and even more significant and even bigger revenues, while the town of Krk and the island of Krk achieve 10% tourism in the Republic of Croatia. That's about 250m euros in revenue a year. Do you make that terminal there, along with those poisons there, with that mockery of boatback that will cover the sea view, so do you think someone will be coming there for the summer? To look at that freak and fear his child being poisoned. Well, there won't be any more tourists there. You are destroying 10% of tourism in the Republic of Croatia because of this madness. You're giving up 250 million euros. Well, I'm wondering how much you're going to get into your own pockets so you can on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, in the name of its citizens, first and foremost, give up that money for the people of the island of Krk. You were wondering what your people would live on? The locals live on tourism. They used to live on agriculture, small campaigns and fishing, but ever since tourism developed, they've left those campaigns and that heavy fishing. They don't even have the supplies anymore. They live off tourism. It's not the easiest life either, but it's certainly more pleasant. And you mean to take that away from them, you'll take it away from them for some of your interests you don't know why. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84443	The next amendment is the number 62 Club of Representatives of the SDP seeking to delete the word "realty".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84444	Thank you. Amendment number 62 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84445	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84446	What I lack in this law is this very proposal in this explanation and in the transitional and final provisions, it doesn't say who will when all this fails, who will flee to Mostar because we lack to know. It's going to fail for sure. It will be established that someone has taken huge money because they will not build a cheaper land terminal and more harmless than insisting on a floating and expensive ship. So that's why you get billions in your pocket. Now, when it gets out, at the end of the trial, I'm wondering which one of the proposings, name and last name, do you know that Secretary of State might tell us who's going to Mostar? Because we saw this last resident of Mostar, we saw his paintings in Medjugorje, pictures, yes, the last of Medjugorje's inhabitants, we saw his pictures at the HDZ General Assembly. There in the middle he spreads his arms, rejoices, sings, you all rejoice with him. Well, there's a legitimate interest in the citizens who will go to Medjugorje, so please put it in that bill so the citizens know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84447	The next amendment is the number of 63 SDP representatives who are asked to delete the word "work".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84448	Thank you. Amendment No 63 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84449	Dearly beloved, decide which one of you will. Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84450	So, in our interpretations of the amendments, I will repeatedly repeat what is particularly controversial, which all Croatian citizens must hear, which is that Article 6. The government can leave to foreigners the management of the terminal, the sale of LNG Croatia's shares and if these foreigners are losers, Article 12, which is disastrous, it undertakes to make up for the loss from citizens' pockets. So, this project is illegal, it is not spatial, it violates European directives and the Constitution and simultaneously reaches into the pockets of Croatian citizens for someone else's interests. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84451	The next amendment is 64 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP on an article requesting the erasure of the word "building".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84452	Thank you. Amendment number 64 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84453	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84454	Thank you very much. So it is amazing that this law pushes a project that is a threatening floating disaster at the expense of all Croatian citizens, and gives up a land terminal that would employ an operation in its construction, GDP would automatically grow almost 1% and go into something that brings no benefit except for the damage to Omislj, Krka, PGZ and all of Croatia. So building a land terminal would benefit multiplely and would meet the four conditions set, therefore economically, energy, aesthetically and environmentally. All those four conditions floating LNG terminals don't meet and that's why our commitment is to fight, encourage it, please, it's building a land LNG terminal. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84455	The next amendment is the number 65 of SDP Representatives Clubs on Article 2 which requires the erasure of the word "recreation".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84456	Thank you. Amendment number 65 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84457	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84458	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When the word "recreation" is deleted and I have to reconstruct what the citizens have sent us to play in their tone record, then, in a strict interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, President Jandrokovic forbade it, I even got a warning, and in order not to get another warning and not take it away from me, I will have to reconstruct what the citizens sent us, so here, I will use the phone a little bit so that I don't interfere with others. So we heard from Mr. Ante Trogrlic, president of the Municipal Council in Omislje. It opposes the construction of a floating LNG terminal in their municipality and expects the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Parliament to make sure that everything that remains in the DINA Petrochemy area is already cleaned up once, which seriously endangers their daily life. And that no more such investments take place in the area of their municipality. Against LNG, above all, because it is a highly irrational project, no economic gain carries on for neither the local community nor the state, and it is ecologically and environmentally risky. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84459	We move to Amendment 66 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 2 requesting the erasure of the word "maintenance".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84460	Thank you. Amendment number 66 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84461	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84462	Mrs Antonija Štiglic, an economist from Omis and a member of the folk society from Omis. It opposes the arrival of LNG in Omisalj because it will contribute to the pollution of life in its municipality and will not bring financial or any other benefit to the Municipality of Omisalj. All residents of the municipality, especially those engaged in tourism, will be at a loss due to the reduction of overnight stays. He doesn't think anyone wants to bathe in a foam full of sparks. The arrival of LNG will also destroy their archaeological site Mirina and will be culturally lost. The important thing is that it is not planned in the spatial plan and they want it to be all by law and to respect the will of the citizens of this constantly raped community. I think this destroys the future of their children who will not be able to bathe in their beautiful sea and enjoy a wonderful nature. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84463	Moving to Amendment No. 67 SDP representatives' clubs on Article 2 which requires the removal of the word supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84464	Thank you. Amendment No 67. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84465	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84466	So you don't accept our proposals, you don't accept our argument that a better land LNG terminal is a better land LNG because through a land LNG terminal you could solve the gas supply of an entire series of economic operators on the island of Krk and in the Primorje-Gorski County and this is how none of this is foreseen. However, this more ecologically cheap gas could also be used for thermo-energy purposes in the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and thus the benefit would be multiple. The proposal that you offer will in no way help the inhabitants of Omis, the island of Krk, the Primorje-Gorski County and Croatia, but we will pay for the supply of Hungary and in this way finance their gas supply for our money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84467	The next amendment is No. 68. The SDP representative's club shall be referred to in Article 2 which shall require that the words ‘safety’ be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84468	Thank you. Amendment No. 68. The SDP representative club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and considers it not aimed at a better no-technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84469	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84470	So it is amazing that the interests and thinking of the citizens of Omis, Krka, the Primorje-Gorski County are not respected. So here's a defense attorney from Omis sent me a message asking if it was necessary for the Krka defenders to come and crucify the tent in order to hear their opinion of this project, where they support the mainland and not the floating LNG Terminator. And I hope that at least the Omis defender, Goran Marevic, will allow us to hear his voice from this computer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84471	I'm warning you, please don't do this. Don't do that. We're all the same, so please don't do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84472	The president of the Croatian Defence Office considers tourism and agriculture to be a future in Krk, not this illegal, illegal, harmful project that will endanger Omisalj. It should be devoted to what our old man had when the island had twice as many inhabitants, exported agricultural products, and this combination with tourism will bring much more than this project that will bring only sickness and damage to tourism. And that's why this nakaradic facility can't bring anything good to the island, orders a defender from the Island of Krk from Omis. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84473	Thank you. Amendment No. 69. The SDP representative’s club shall, on Article 2, request that the words ‘protect’ be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84474	Thank you. Amendment No. 69. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84475	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84476	The word “protection” should be deleted because the word “protection” and this project does not go together. This project protects nothing, not the interests of the Republic of Croatia, not the interests of the citizens of the island of Krk, not the inhabitants of Omis, it protects absolutely nothing but the material, monetary interests of the proposings. Because who would go crazy against protecting everything they need to protect, must, the interest of the citizens, the interest of tourism, the interest of money, who would do it crazy if they didn't have a personal interest. We do not want to protect such an interest, and therefore we suggest that the word "protection" is deleted from this law because it is a mockery here, it is a mockery of the proposings to the citizens of the Republic, the islanders of Krk, the citizens of Omis, all the people of common sense, the defender who rebelled, they will not, I have not seen that Clem and this tent are in the interest of the Croatian people and neither will they raise it. Their interests were achieved and for the interests of the citizens of Krk and so they never cared.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84477	The next amendment is No. 70. The SDP representative's club shall be referred to in Article 2 which shall be required to delete the words "sustainable".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84478	Thank you. Amendment No. 70. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84479	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84480	Thank you. We're going to reproduce the statement that Mrs. Anya Dabo, the lawyer from Rijeka, gave us. It opposes the construction of a floating LNG terminal in Omislj, Krk, because gas is not a transit fuel because it will prolong our dependence on fossil fuels, slow down the transition to a low carbon economy and make the current processes worse by climate change. Observed as a whole of greenhouse gas emissions at each stage, from research to consumption, combined with environmental impact, I apologize, Vice President, MP... I've been distracted by photography, so if you can, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84481	Agent Curaj, don't interfere with photographing your colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84482	Well, I couldn't reproduce, so now you can only stand the time. So in combination with the environmental impacts associated with gas extraction, they make gas fuel, which is everything, just not clean and safe. In addition to CO2 emissions from construction, natural gas production, natural gas production is also responsible for large emissions, for large amounts of methane emissions. They therefore hope that this study will serve as a warning of adverse environmental impacts. The strategic orientation of PGZ is tourism and by building LNG floating terminals will increase gases, there will be a rise in temperature, which is neither good for the environment nor for human health. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84483	I suppose that's what my colleague Stazic asked for, he didn't say that, but I expect it. He got carried away. We are now going to Amendment 71 of the SDP Representatives Club on Article 2, which requires the erasure of the words of the spatial one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84484	Thank you. Amendment No 71 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the promoter has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84485	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84486	Thank you. My noun, and not many, Mr Arsen Kraljić, Croatian defender and private entrepreneur from Omis. It's against floating, but it's not against LNG in another form because it finds it environmentally unacceptable to float LNG. This little sea and nature that we have left in this way will be devastated to the end. Nijivices that are an asset of the Omisalj municipality in tourism are situated on a few kilometers of airline from the floating terminal. He believes that it does not go with one another in any way and that he has not seen any argument that would have contributed to it. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84487	The next amendment is the number 72 of SDP Representatives Clubs on Article 2 which requires the erasure of word development.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84488	Thank you. Amendment No 72 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. Reason: the applicant has considered it and considers that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84489	Dear Representative Jovanovic. Don't confuse me, make a deal before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84490	Here are the citizens who come to us and protest that they don't listen to the citizens and their opinions, that their interests are not represented. Here's one citizen writes: Russia's Gazprom and Austria's OMV, Russia and Austria, signed a gas supply contract in Austria by 2040. The reason American LNG is more expensive than Russian gas. The Austrian president called the two countries' co-operation in the area of gas deliveries an example of possible co-operation and added that he does not see the point in replacing Russian gas with more expensive American gas, which is imposed on Europe by individual US politicians. It is often not considered how American LNG 2, if not three times more expensive than Russian gas. With this already purely from an economic point of view, it makes no sense to change Russian gas with American gas, the Austrian President said, so we could listen to it too. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84491	We are now going to Amendment 73 of the SDP Representatives Club on Article 3, which requires the erasure of the words of the individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84492	Thank you. Amendment No 73 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84493	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84494	I thank you, Mr Vice President, here, while we are talking about certain things, we have, some citizens have recorded their statements and given us the right to release their statements in the Parliament, the president has made it impossible for us, and then I will make a statement by Mrs Bogdana Cice, a librarian at the library in Omislje and against the floating LNG because it will disrupt the beauty of their end, a lot of people have moved because of the beauty of their end, because the quality of life is very good and the facility will disrupt the beauty of their end and quality of life and therefore oppose the construction of LNG terminals. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84495	We now move on to Amendment 74 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3, which is required to delete words they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84496	Thank you. Amendment No 74 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84497	Dear representative Klisovic raised his hand. Make a deal with each other, please. Who's going now? Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84498	They have a key word, a key word in this law, in this project, who has and who doesn't, who gets and who loses. Of this, none of this will have the Republic of Croatia, its citizens, its budget, the people of Krk, the people of Omis, or the eco system around Krk. Who doesn't? You, all of whom I've named. You'll all be at your loss. And who has and who will have more than they have? These are the promoters. Proposers who will buy a ship who knows what and how old and drag it to Omisalj. So who would they sell that ship to now, if not the Republic of Croatia and to this government, who would they sell it to? No one. And why would they sell it? Well, because they have to give a commission to sell it, so how else would they sell it? And who's going to share that vision? Those who push this project. ... They're pushing him, despite the opinion of the citizens we've been playing here for two hours and we're gonna let him go to the end, and we're gonna hear who you're jeopardizing, and they're gonna hear who's gonna have who after this project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84499	You're looking for a vote. Our next amendment is No. 75. The SDP representative's club shall be referred to in Article 3, which shall be requested to delete the following words.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84500	Thank you. Amendment No. 75 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84501	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84502	Thank you very much, Vice President. One thing we need to clear up, LNG gas or incinerated gas, of course it's more expensive than natural gas, is that it has to go through this very technological process of insertion, and after that, re-relieving and transposing it into a gas state. And then he didn't hear what, of course, Austrians advocate natural gas, because they don't have the ability to get ships in the incinerated gas. But in-house gas is primarily used, for, as I mentioned, situations when you do not have enough gas on the market due to increased demand. This situation is called a peak or a peak of consumption. In order to cover that consumption summit, you must have occasional additional sources, which are the election of more expensive gas, which we supply through LNG. And that's why LNG is very important to us precisely those situations when it comes to ensuring the shortage that comes, especially in the winter days. But these floating terminals have other countries, e.g. Lithuania, but what needs to be pointed out, there are still different things than what is wanted to do in Croatia. The floating LNG terminal in Lithuania has a closed combustion system and most of the time does not use the sea for filling, and it cannot be used because their sea is colder, does not use the varicine or chlorine to wash out heat exchangers. It is precisely those ecological situations that the Lithuanians do not have, even if they have a floating terminal, and we will have in Croatia. And where? In those parts of the country, which are extremely tourist-developed, where Croatia collects a very high profit from tourism. And that is why we must once again warn that the terminal on land is an acceptable option... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84503	Thank you. The next amendment is no. 76. The SDP representative's club, in Article 3, which suggests erasing the word meaning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84504	Thank you. Amendment No. 76 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the explanation, the applicant considered it and considered it not to be a better nom of technical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84505	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, several times today, we have highlighted the importance of a land terminal, as a strategic project that we support because, in the preparation of investments unlike a land terminal with a floating version, there is no link between the project and the potential consumers in Kvarner, gas thermoelectrics on the urine, refrigerators or air conditioning for the tourism sector, in which the Primorian County could find a great interest. And that way, this project would be extremely useful. And for this reason, we urge you to respect our arguments and give up the floating LNG terminal and start building a land LNG terminal as soon as possible, because it is the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84507	Now we're going to Amendment 77. SDP representative's club in Art. 3 which is required to delete the words of the agencies. Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84508	Excuse me. I mean, you already know what I'm gonna say. [[I see you're a little bit, uh, to know the advance name, please.]] Amendment No. 77.c. is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and considers it not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84509	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84510	Thank you. The next one whose speech we're going to reproduce is Mr. Boris... Private owner and representative of the board of the tourist community of private owners. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll quote, I think I can really talk about this big and huge problem that bothers the entire island of Krk and the entire coastal mountainous county. With that LNG terminal coming in, not just our properties that we've been building for many years, making investments, they're going to lose huge money to value. We'll lose the guests we've been tortured in this already wounded Omisljem, the puzzling industry managed to bring in just as the gentleman said, the ugly investment is threatening to pollute the sea, pollute this whole area both visually and chemically and simply re-infuse us to look for another place for a better life. And that they may be evicting even though they're many years old, we're asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84511	Amendment number 78. SDP representative's club in Art. 3 is asking to delete the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84512	Thank you. Amendment No. 78 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted. The promoter considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84513	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84514	Unfortunately, the term often heard by the promoters, which is completely false that this project is in line with, floating LNG terminal that is in line with the spatial plans of the Omis and the Primorje-Gorski County. So the citizens of Croatia must know that this law absolutely violates the Constitution, numerous legal regulations and... self-government because you're pushing a project that isn't in the spatial plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If it's not in the spatial plan, it can't even be a strategic project under the Strategic Investment Act. Therefore, it is a lie and it is incomprehensible that the government allows itself to violate the Constitution, the laws... the local self-government and all decisions of the Municipal Council of Omis and the Primorje-Gorskia Assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84515	The next amendment is the number 79 of SDP Representatives Clubs per article. 3. The word “in ” is deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84516	Thank you. Amanadman No. 79 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted. The promoter considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84517	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84518	So we believe that “in” should not just be deleted in this Law. "U" should be deleted at all in the ideology that exists, which is dominant in this country. Part of that ideology is present everywhere in everyday life. In government work, on social networks, at football games, in court decisions, everywhere. Under that "u" was already killing the Croatian people, and now he intends to poison them with this Act, a variant. I already said, in Auschwitz, they were poisoning the gas with a cyclone, and here they're going to be poisoning the varicine. Very similar to the letter “in, ” very similar. I, the Honorable President, do not ask for a vote on this because I believe that the letter should not be voted on, the letter "in" should be won.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84519	Dispose of the Croatian alphabet. Okay. Let's go to Amendment No. 80 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP in Art. 3 requiring erasing the word “sense. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84520	Thank you. Amendment No. 80 SDP representatives clubs are not accepted. The promoter considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84521	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84522	Thank you, Vice President. So the word “meaning” actually marks this whole bill. Many things here don't make sense and we tried to identify them in the debate to convince the government that they might give up this law and propose the Law on LNG terminals on land. One of the things that doesn't make sense, here I'm going to repeat it again is the question that the government keeps saying, and the second president claims that the floating terminal can be temporarily used, and then untied, moved to another location, rescheduled to transport, rented to someone, etc. Now, all that would be good if he hadn't bought the floating terminal, or that he wouldn't be bought with EU funds. And the European Commission has made it clear to us that it will give money for this terminal provided that the terminal must not be alienated, meaning floating, re-purposed, rented to someone else or similar within 10 years. So you see how the words of our officials lose their meaning. They assure the people of one thing, and then the European Commission tells us the real truth. Well, that's not fair to our citizens, and I think we need to be much more correct. And what's going to happen, as the government said, is that the floating terminal is phase one, and the land terminal should be phase two. Ten years can't mean he can't get away floating. If the government, either HDZ or perhaps in the next SDP elections will want to go with this land terminal, then for 10 years we will not be able to remove this floating because we have committed ourselves to the EU. So you see how things start to lose their senses. And I think it's very incorrect for our citizens, and especially for the citizens who live, they live in the Primorje-Gorski County, but to all of us here. We say our target is the land terminal, the transition phase floating. And please vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84523	The next amendment is the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Art. 3. The word “this ” is proposed to be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84524	Thank you. Amendment No 81 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The promoter considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84525	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84526	Thank you very much. So, this whole law is unconstitutional and we can say that it's the government's legal code to break the law. Here, I'll just list a few laws that break this law. So it's the Construction Act because the floating terminal can't possibly be the first phase of the land terminal. It is the Law on spatial arrangement first, the procedure in the land terminal space is different from the procedure in the floating terminal space, by size, by accommodation, by purpose, by function, by way of the use of space and second, the coverage of the ground space operation and the sea needed for the realization of the procedure is different. The Law on Maritime Good and Seaports is being violated. The award of a concession must be in line with the spatial plan and the way in which the concession for ports of particular importance, an industrial port which must be through a public tender. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which guarantees units of local and regional self-government, is in breach of the European Charter of Local Self-Government for all projects of the smaller, let alone this kind of caliber. The government must consult with the local community, and this government does not even want to hear the opinion of the citizens of Omis, Krk and the Primorje-Gorski County. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84527	Amendment number 82 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Art. 3. Seek to delete the word “means ”
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84528	Thank you. Amendment number 82 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84529	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84530	Well, it would be very interesting to see what it means to write laws in the Republic of Croatia. So it would be interesting to hear who wrote this special law of LNG because in the end we still don't know. This should become a rule in the Republic of Croatia, especially in cases of lex specialis which are done by emergency procedure and always have some hidden conflict of interest which we have best seen by lex Agrodor and epic conflict of interest and now repeats it with lex LNG. It would not be good if the LNG Croatia administration was involved in this writing with the intention of providing itself with a monopolitical position at the expense of consumers, taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia. And it seems that's exactly what happened, so I ask all of you what does that really mean? We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84531	Amendment 83 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 3 also requires that the word ‘means’ be deleted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84532	So, yeah, it's real to us. [[Intruder Reiner: No, not first will give an explanation to the respected secretary of state.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84533	Amendment number 83 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The same promoter considered and considered that he was not focused on a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84534	Thank you very much. Here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84535	or That's right, that word is especially nice because, without meaning or meaning, it doesn't have this much, lots of scale. [[Intruder Reiner: The word “means” is important, so...]] What is the meaning of floating LNG for flora and fauna in our Adriatic with which we are so proud? With our sea, with the biodiversity of our sea. In order for the equipment to function uninterrupted, efficient, with a floating LNG, it must be chlorinated. It simply tries to remove living organisms, algae, clams and all that is glued to the beautiful LNG equipment. Now, when you release chlorine in large quantities into the sea over a long period of time, and here we're talking about 10 years, you get really vague consequences on your environment. And there are no large comparative studies where you could say exactly how it will be in the Croatian Adriatic. But we have some data from Mexico where LNG terminals are also used and where chlorine is used to ensure the efficiency of equipment. You see, there in the Gulf of Mexico, so I don't think Mexico's state but the Gulf of Mexico, so the sea, the fish's offering for the use of chlorine for the purposes of use and the Omiseye is less than 1% to 3%. Our Adriatic is rich in fish, but not so much so that we can neutralize everything we have simply through chlorine. We know that chlorine is not harmful to human health in small quantities, we end up chlorinating and water to be drinkable, but we don't know how chlorine works in large quantities and over a long period of time like 10 years. I don't know if the government has seriously dealt with such a single environmental impact, especially if some major comparative studies don't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84536	Thank you. The following amendment is the number of 84 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP on Article 3(2), which requires the erasure of the word ‘sea’.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84537	Thank you. Amendment number 84 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84538	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84539	The word "sea", the word "mor" was not in the Croatian anthem of the original. It was introduced in the 1990s by the intervention of poet Milivo Slavicek and was introduced with the right. The sea represents one of the greatest values. The naturals we have. And the economic potentials we're taking advantage of. And now that sea, that beauty we have, you want to destroy. You want to drop chlorine in there, varicine. It's also a crime to the anthem at the end. And this anthem has entered the Constitution, so it is a crime both directly and according to the Constitution. The only concern you show about the sea is that this sea rhymes with chlorine. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84540	I guessed. The following amendment is the 85 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP in Article 3(2), which proposes to delete the word "on".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84541	Thank you. Amendment number 85 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84542	I see the movement of a respected bogeyman that he'll be the one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84543	So as for the word "on", what we insist on is hearing the voice of the citizens. And since the strict interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the Parliament which you, Mr Vice President, have given yourself up, remains only for us to reproduce what we want. Next to us is Mr Branko Karabajic and my unprofessional handling will have to wait a little while, director of the tourist office of the Tourist Board of Punat Municipality, it is a neighbouring municipality and is against the floating LNG for several reasons. The reason is the first price of real estate from the tourist aspect, neither visually nor economically, because it is not seen Benefit of the local population, something will be obtained, but not enough, should be invested in the infrastructure and not only Omisalj municipality, but the entire island of Krk and the wider region which could be discussed through the stationary LNG, but it is not seen that the Government is in charge, and then investors have no interest in offering anything, if no one is looking for anything. From the tourist aspect against the floating LNG terminal for a visual reason, when guests arrive on the island of Krk, and from the ecological aspect is asked. And especially as far as marine flora and fauna are concerned. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84544	Amendment 86 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 3(2) shall require that the words of the facility be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84545	Thank you. Amendment 86 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and considers it not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84546	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84547	Here's because we've turned the people who asked and got from us the ability to hear their voice from the Parliament, from the subjects to the objects, so we have to be the subjects. The next person whose voice we will reproduce is Brigita Šprohar, a teacher at Omisalj elementary school. It is against the floating LNG terminal primarily for environmental reasons and then economic reasons. This project coincides with the spatial plan and the law and another fiasco of our country and we residents of this tourist municipality are explicitly against it. Also during this debate, Mr. Marijan Pike from Zlatar appeared to be a defender and opposed to building a terminal at sea because it is harmful to citizens in that environment, and also to all those who come to bathe in the vicinity of the terminal says that he is flying in Njivica, otherwise from Zlatar from Zagorje, so here I am not an islander, but also Zagori are here with us to point to the harmfulness of this project. We're looking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84548	Amendment 87 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3(2) shall request that the words of the mobile be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84549	Thank you. Amendment No 87 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84550	Dear Representative Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84551	Thank you very much, Vice President. So the whole story here today actually comes down to this mobile, or floating terminal that's moving and can be driven, driven or one permanent land object. I need to draw your attention and attention to this ecological part again. When liquid gas is infused, it is located at -160 degrees Celsius and warms up until it turns into real gas. In the case of a floating terminal, liquid gas will be heated throughout the system, immersed in the sea, until it is evened with the warmth of the sea. And then the heat exchanger will turn into a state of gas. You see, in an Italian-like LNG floating process like this, a foam is created in the surrounding sea, and then the wind blows it all around, imagine that it will be in the tourist season an attractive area for tourists coming to Croatia. In addition, the problem is that the sea temperature is falling, i.e. cooling by 7 degrees. And in studies, our study says it'll cool the sea 1 to 2 degrees, so here we are in one step. However, any temperature reduction must have an extremely negative impact on the flora and fauna within that area. I said a little while ago how much reduction and chlorination affects the reduction of the fish fund in the Gulf of Mexico. If you have chlorine and lower sea temperature by 7 degrees, so we will actually make one ecocid, the dispersion of that part of the Croatian Adriatic, so Kvarner, I don't think it's justified. Thank you and please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84552	The following amendment shall be the number 88 of the SDP Representatives Club referred to in Article 3(2), which shall be requested to delete words or.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84553	Thank you. Amendment No. 88 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84554	Dear Representative Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84555	A word or can be found in many important sentences. In one of the perhaps most famous is in Shakespeare's Hamlet, whether or not to be. That's the question. But that question whether or not it becomes a key issue because of your project, because of your knight project and for the citizens of the island of Krk. You're a knight, and it's for them to be or not to be. Those with this, without this project survive, with this project they fail. Without him, he'll be gone. And this Shakespearean dilemma you have managed to translate into a law against the citizens of Krk, congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84556	I have to tell you that I certainly had nothing to do with designing it, but it far outweighs my possibilities. Amendment number 89 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3(2) shall require the removal of words from.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84557	Thank you. Amendment number 89 of the SDP club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84558	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84559	Thank you very much. So it's amazing that through these arguments of our amendments, we can see to what extent the government ignores the citizens of Omis, but what's saddest, is that what is constantly untrue. And what untruths they dare to bring up, we see by one answer to the parliamentary question, where a colleague asked to explain Mrs Ahmetovic's statements, that she was completely ignored and in no way shared with her everything that was important for this project. And we have heard here from the minister and to the extent that they have spoken to the chief, Mrs Ahmetovic, countless times, which is a lie. In fact, all of these meetings, which are listed in the MP's, answer to the parliamentary question, are also a matter of truth that has been discussed. First of all, it was about the sewer network and the recovery of hazardous waste in Dina, and it hasn't been done yet. So, it's a lie that's been talked about, and what's been discussed is probably a lie because it's not a job to get rid of dangerous waste. So, how can we trust anything that comes from Mr. Plenkovic's workshop and his... We're looking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84560	Amendment 90 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Art. 3 Paragraph 2 requires erasing the words fixed, that is already serious. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84561	Thank you. Amendment No. 90 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84562	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84563	The word is definitely an important word. The fixed terminal or land terminal, that's what got the green light, of all of them, that's what has the license, which is embedded in the spatial arrangement, that's what the citizens of Krk and the inhabitants of Omis are satisfied with, that's what the SDP represented. But the word fixation rejects this government, it won't fix... He wants to float, he doesn't want to be sure, he wants to be insecure, he doesn't want to be cheaper, he wants to be more expensive, and to make this one more expensive, she made a comparison between a floating terminal and a land terminal that would be twice the capacity and say, so you can see that this land is more expensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, yeah, but it's twice the capacity. And that's how he lies and cheats on people. You just know it's hard to fool someone when it comes to his interests. It will be difficult for you to deceive the ugly of Krk, so they know what is a committee for them and what is bad for them. So they know how you work against their interests. I don't just know when you'll dare go there next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84564	You're looking for a vote, a little hear from me, because you want to delete a fixed one, but good. We're going to Amendment 91. SDP Representatives' Club at the SDP 3. Paragraph 2 which requires the erasure of words consists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84565	Thank you. Amendment No. 91 Club of Representatives of the SDP in Art. 3. delete the word consists of, not accepted, the reason for the construction of LNG terminal consists of 2 phases, the first stage is floating the second phase is land, the first stage in terms of floating is cheaper by 100 million, than the same first phase on land and therefore this amendment cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84566	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84567	The decision should consist of a series of elements in order to be good. We have already said here that, in a strategic sense, LNG terminal is needed for Croatia and thus we are being integrated into Europe's energy map and we are becoming a factor on that map, which is important for our international position as well. In order to make the right decision, one of the components that it must consist of is communication with local administration and self-government. Kola Jovanovic just reminded us that some talks were held with the head of Omisal Ahmetovic municipality, but that the topic of the conversation was not LNG terminal on Krk, but rather some other topics. The minister here told us that he had spoken. Well, now someone here is not telling the truth, and this strategically important decision without communication and coordination with the local administration and the local administration, I think it's absolutely not good. As for the phase, the first and second stages of this project, we talked about it several times during today's discussion, and we pointed to the illogicalities contained in this proposal of the Government. That for 10 years we have the first phase of a floating terminal, only after that, the second phase of the land terminal, with the inability, to go to a land terminal within the first 10 years, because our commitment to the EU that financed us is to buy a floating terminal. We tie our own hands, we fall into our own mouths. So if we wanted to quickly distribute gas across Europe, we could not know for a year, predict floating gas, if that's what they would say in Dalmatia, but not limit 10 years of construction of a land terminal. And the land terminal obviously, it's obvious that we have a plan and then what to go to at 2 costs, floating for 10 years minimum 10 years after that land. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84568	Thank you. The next amendment is 92. SDP representative's club in Art. 3 item 2 which suggests deleting the word out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84569	Thank you. Amendment No. 92 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84570	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84571	Honorable Vice President risking his warning, but I think that warning is worth what I'm about to do now, that it's worth it. And I'll take it with pride if you give it to me. We will release the tone record of the head of the municipality of Omisalj Mrs Mirela Ahmetovic. .../The speaker is playing a tape from his cell phone./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84572	My colleague Stazic, for this reason, has already received a warning from President Bauk, therefore I ask you if you want to speak you can speak, others cannot speak in the Parliament without the permission of the President of the Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure. I have to give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84573	Mr. Vice President, I heard you gave me a warning. I proudly receive this reminder on behalf of Mrs. Mirela Ahmetovic, on behalf of all citizens of the island of Omisalj and all citizens of the island of Krk. [[You're out, yes, you're out of time.]] Thank you for your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84574	Don't continue to violate the Rules of Procedure, please. Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the respected representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84575	Mr. Vice President, I think you violated article 239 where you gave a warning not contained in Article 238. And to return to the morning part of our session, President Jandrokovic said he would refer a question to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure in which he would seek an indication of this situation that we currently have in the Assembly with the use of the audio records of other persons. Therefore, until we have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, it is not correct to give notices to MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84576	My colleague Klisovic, I am holding a session, so he will not wait, but I have said the warning and I will continue to tell them. Following the same criteria as the President of the Parliament. And of course anyone who thinks that this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure can, of course, address the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Now we're going to Amendment 93. The SDP representative's club, in Article 3, paragraph 2, where the word is proposed, is deleted: ‘which’.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84577	Thank you. Amendment No. 93. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84578	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84579	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. A few minutes ago, you told your respective fellow Stazic that you had nothing to do with designing this terminal because it goes beyond your possibilities. But that's only partially true. Because my colleague Stazic made an observation to you as the sole representative of the ruling majority, here I apologize, I did not look well enough, yet there are three of you, to you as a representative of the ruling majority who, despite the fact that the design of this goes beyond your possibilities, despite the fact that you do not know what problems LNG is carrying on Krk, or a floating natural gas terminal, we still support this law. Because if this law hadn't had your support and support for your colleagues here today, we wouldn't have a secretary of state and we wouldn't be answering all these amendments here today, we'd be doing what's only right in this situation, and that's the proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and refer this law to the third reading. Or when we suggested that an emergency procedure should be removed, the ministry would have had to respond to all these strong remarks that we had and in the debate. But you don't want it, you agree to this rape of democracy, and then in that situation when we talk about the words "which" I can only ask myself what the hell is wrong with you. Thank you, and I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84580	I'm surprised to you, but I must say, the first thing you know is that in your speech you violated the Rules of Procedure because you were talking to me and you weren't answering, so that's one thing. And the other thing, I really don't know how to design, but let me seriously doubt that you as a lawyer understand yourself in designing such installations, but well, nothing, let's go. Please, you think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84581	You hurt the Rules of Procedure twice, both times Article 238. It is clear in Article 238, that a representative who violates the Rules of Procedure will be given notice and you have not done so even though you have found that I have violated the Rules of Procedure. But you also disrespected me as an advocate when you found out that I knew nothing about this matter because I'm like that because I'm a lawyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84582	No, no, about designing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84583	However, Mr. Vice President, this law also contains provisions concerning ownership structures, concessions, compensations, etc., which are, you will allow, legal issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84584	I agree with that, but we were talking about designing. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84585	Article 33 has been broken. A Rules of Procedure which speaks of the powers of the President of the Parliament. The President of the Parliament has the power to hold a session, but he has no authority to comment on step-by-step MPs, no authority, if you want to get involved in the debate, at this point you can't because we're discussing amendments, then it's time for someone to replace you and report for discussion. But in this way to comment on the fact that it's a representative who knows something, that he doesn't know something, forgive me absolutely inadmissible, and also unwise.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84586	All right, I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, so let's go to Amendment 94 of the SDP's Representatives Club on Article 3(2), which suggests erasing the word supply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84587	Thank you. Amendment No 94 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84588	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84589	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Well, the supply question is what should be the key question of this law. The issue of security of supply is what should be discussed and what should be the basis for the adoption of any law regarding hydrocarbons, such as natural gas terminals. But I doubt whether the supply issue is what really lies behind this law. As I used to say, and what did they point to from various ecological associations in the area of Kvarner and the island of Krk, there is a question here who is behind this law? Who are the authors of this law? Whose interests are defended by this law? Does the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, indeed, need and must have a secure supply of energy, including natural gas, or defend the interests of those who, in accordance with Article 6, will become owners of this terminal, and then, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law, receive compensation when the terminal does not operate positively? That's why, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, we're asking that the word supply be deleted from this law, because even though it should have something to do with it, it has nothing to do with it. Thank you, of course we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84590	The next amendment is the 95 Club of Representatives of the SDP, in Article 3(2), which requires the erasure of words for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84591	Thank you. Amendment 95 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted because the word is important for it to remain in the law since this terminal serves to diversify supply, to employ the existing gas system and to transfer LNG towards the south.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84592	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84593	None of what you said in your explanation is true. This law does not serve, this law serves to enrich a small group of people, we do not yet know their names, this law serves to undo better citizens of part of the Republic of Croatia, this law serves to insult that same group of citizens, this law serves to show the haughtiness of the government, their complete insolence to the interests of citizens and the interests of the country, only when their interests are at stake. Here's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84594	The following amendment is the number of the 96 SDP Representatives Club on Article 3(2), which requires the removal of the object's word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84595	Thank you. Amendment 96 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84596	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84597	Thank you very much. So especially that we need to point out as scandalous in this proposal is about the objectivity of an environmental impact study. So it is a one-off paper paid for by the public money of the Republic of Croatia and the EU, in which the economist claims the opposite of what the same economist claimed during Oreshkovic's second document, also paid for by the public money of the Republic of Croatia and the EU. Therefore, in that first document, the land LNG terminal facility was assessed as an economical quality, cost-effective, of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia in order to stop being economically profitable in the second document, so the same study maker claims the exact opposite. Very interesting how one object in two studies from the same artist can get a different rating. I wonder who paid for it? And I wonder how many Croatian citizens will pay for such failures by the government whose secretary of state you are? We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84598	We are now going to Amendment 97 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3(2), which requires that the wording of the system be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84599	Thank you. Amendment No 97 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84600	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84601	The word system is an important word, definitely in this whole LNG story. Systematic thinking, thinking and decision making on strategic issues is crucial for the state to move forward. What we want to refer to as both the public and you as a representative of the government is that we feel that this whole story is not adequately systematically thought out. As we have warned of the indifference of the first and second phases, it is evident that there is no systematic thinking about what is wanted, but that you should only doubt that behind these decisions are someone's financial interests, some other people who will take over this business in the future, some other people who will be paid out of the state budget to compensate for their non-profit business in LNG Croatia. Now, that's what must not happen and what goes against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the public interest and our citizens. And from everything we've heard today and these days when you've represented the Law, it turns out there's no strategic systematic thinking about LNG because you haven't convinced me that the floating terminal would be better than this land terminal, that it could be built faster by floating than land, that it's cheaper floating than land. My colleagues and I have been giving you arguments all day that are just saying the opposite, that land and faster can be built that we haven't wasted this much time. They've gone empty for two years. If it wasn't more expensive, cheaper because floating demands and additional infrastructure towards... the port of Rijeka, so a tanker to transport that gas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's neither cheaper nor can be used as much as we want, floating, but it has to be minimum 10 years. So these are all reasons that we are somehow patiently and persistently trying to state so that the government may reconsider its decision, accept the voice of the people and change the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84602	Thank you. Next amendment, you're asking for a vote, I presume. No voice from counterpart Klisovic Where are you going? Where are you going, colleague Bauk? [[I'll get it. Sir...]] Easy, easy, easy. ... Yeah, I got it. [[You can't hear it.]] So, I've already said that. We are now going to Amendment 98 of the SDP Representatives Club in Art. 3. St. 2. which suggests erasing the word “others”.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84603	Thank you. Amendment number 98 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The promoter considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84604	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84605	Thank you. Speaking of others, we're taking care of others, so I'd only ask the secretary of state to say that everything's okay since he's been standing on his feet for five hours and caring for his health, if there's a need for a break or sitting down. Okay. [[Intruder Milatić: No, don't.]] If you do. No, no, you tell him if you need to. [[Invadica Milatić: There is the President of the Parliament, he takes care of it.]] So, as for others, a large number of citizens have made their contribution to this debate, but since we are not able to reproduce the same, I will also be grateful to them for letting us know who it is. So, as long as you let me, of course. So, Mr. Cedomir Miller, deputy mayor of Krka, then Mr. Damir Franulić, father of 4 children, Mr. Damir Jakovčić, retired from Omis, Mr. Davor Albanez, retired, Mr. Dean Ljubobratović, deputy head of the Čavle municipality, Mr. Dinko Petrov, commander of the public fire department of the city of Krk, Ms. or Miss Doris Kejo, student of the secondary medical school in Rijeka, Mr. Dragan Medarić of the island of Cres, and during the duration of this debate, we will also list all those others who gave us their written permits, so that in their name we say something in the Croatian Parliament that we mention their name, as you see, I go by alphabet, we are now on letter D, then you can imagine how much more to the letter Z.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84606	The next amendment is No. 99 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP in Art. 3. St. 2., which wastes erasing the word “or. ” Here it is, the respected representative Klisovic will respond, but first let's give a word to the government's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84607	Thank you. Amendment number 99 of the SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted. The promoter considered it, and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84608	Here you go, colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84609	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here are the citizens of Croatia who are just saying that this is a situation or-or. So, people who deal with tourism in this part of Croatia say that the government would not cover us with a part of the costs that would be incurred by LNG and a reduced tourist offer. So, we entrepreneurs who deal with tourism in the Kvarner Aquarium will suffer damage. If the Government is to bear or cover the costs of LNG Croatia up to that level to be profitable, here are the people in the region asking that all those who suffer the costs of unwarranted tourism also be compensated for the losses from the state budget. And what the government will now answer to those people who are here, logically think that one business subject should not cover the costs and others should not. That this calls into question the equality of all entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, and they all end up paying taxes to the state budget, and from that state budget should the costs be borne by whom? Losers. At the end-end, we remember where this policy has led us in that former country to cover the costs of losers, not to stimulate those entrepreneurs who work well and work well and manage to maintain themselves on this difficult market. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84610	Amendment No. 100 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP 3. c. 3. in which the word “Built ” is requested to be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84611	Thank you. The amendment of the 100 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP is not accepted because the word is built to remain in this Act, given that everything that has been built and built is not built by the state budget but by the funds of the EU investors and the funds of the loan. So it's not about paying out of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84612	Dear Representative Jovanovic
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84613	So we would like to build a land terminal as soon as possible because this is what the citizens of Omis, Krka, Primorje Mountain County, and it is worrying that you have accepted the method and technology of recrysing, it is the conversion of liquid gas into a gas state, which the Ministry of Environmental Protection has explicitly rejected as harmful. So, what an absurdity it is. The Ministry of Environmental Protection is saying no, and you accept that. Therefore, it is considered that the use of the sea to heat liquid gas in order to translate it into a gaseous state and wash out the ship's heat exchangers with a varicine, which is released into the sea at a capacity of 300 tonnes per year, constitutes a disaster for the sea and the environment. So the Ministry of Environmental Protection rejected such a method. Practically a ban, and you're pushing her again with this law. So you're legalizing something that's illegal again, and why? Let the citizens hear why. The reason is that it is the cheapest integration technology, and in this way it wants to benefit as much as possible from foreign investors' profits. So scandalously again, to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to the harm of the environment, nature, seas which are our greatest wealth and of course tourism without which Croatia cannot survive. That is probably why that young column leaving Croatia will be even bigger, asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84614	The next amendment is No. 101 Club of Representatives of the SDP in Art. 3, paragraph 3, which is required to delete the words of construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84615	Thank you. Amendment No. 101 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84616	Who's going to be there, my colleague Jovanovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84617	So, yes, I must once again express great dissatisfaction that the attitudes and opinions of citizens living in Omislje, in Krk, in the Primorian County, and people have shown absolute interest in something that is vital to them. So, for example. There were 400 citizens, one of our small municipalities with 3,000 inhabitants, who attended the public debate, about the impact study held at the sports hall of OŠ Omislj. So 400 citizens present have come. 850 remarks were made, 160 of them submitted 850 remarks, of which you respected only 4% and they were completely insignificant. Otherwise, no such interest and public opposition has been recorded in the history of the Primorian Mountain County. Therefore, you heard that we had almost 19,000 signatures on the petition asking to give up the floating LNG terminal, there were over 8.5 thousand at the protest, and the protest was led by members of the Omis and Krk Defence Association, headed by the protest, which is aimed at, greater and better, better quality of life in Omislje, Krk, against the floating LNG terminal, and for the mainland. We have to keep saying that, therefore, for landers, who are not more expensive, which can be built as quickly and which would ensure a whole series of economic benefits to the Omisalj municipality, but also to the whole of Croatia, we are looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84618	Now we're going to Amendment 102. SDP representative's club in Art. 3, paragraph 3 requiring the word execution to be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84619	Thank you. Amendment No. 102 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84620	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84621	If the land terminal was planned, then it would be neglected, the construction operation of Croatia would be employed, it is not in this government's interest. You don't care about Croatia's construction operation. They'll lose their jobs, and you'll be buying some foreign ship,... So this decision of yours is completely incomprehensible, it's unreasonable, it's just a monster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where you refuse our workers to work, and they go abroad, because they don't have that job, they go to work outside. And instead of keeping them here, that construction operation, instead of giving them jobs, to build that land terminal, no. No, I don't. What do you care about that? It's important to poison the sea, it's important to poison people, it's important that you make money.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84622	Amendment 103. SDP representative's club in Art. 3 Item 3 requires deleting a word means.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84623	Amendment No. 103 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84624	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84625	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, yes, this project really means a lot to Croatia and we mentioned it several times today during the debate. But you can see how much it means to the MPs. Except for us here from SDP and colleague Pernar, there's no one alive here. So everyone's reconciled to the fact that the government has decided and that this decision cannot be changed, so why the debate in this House, why are these amendments to everyone I bear, if we can't change anything? So the only thing we can do today is inform the public of Croatia, a little deeper and deeper in the arguments, why it should be a land terminal, not floating. And now, if you're hard enough glued to the media if the people start making a louder deal, then maybe the government will reconsider their decisions. And with the foundation of Parliamentarians, their debates, arguments, they simply won't. It all comes down and it all comes down to one context of the political struggle of the black white cheerleading relationship if I'm for Hajduk, I'm not for Dinamo, if I'm for Dinamo, I'm not for Hajduk, I'm always better at Hajduk than Dinam, Dinam of Hajduk, and it ends nowhere, no one listens to anyone, no one wants to hear the measure of the arguments, and we systematically expose them here today and we ask the Government, we ask the Government as representatives, Croatian citizens to reconsider this decision. We also asked that the law not go into emergency procedure, let the time be left for the Croatian public to get better acquainted with this problem and to hear what are really arguments stronger for a floating terminal than those that we bring out for a land terminal. I repeat once again, the SDP and SDP club as a party is not opposed to the LNG terminal, but we are opposed to its floating version. Thank you very much and please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84626	Thank you. Amendment 104, SDP's club representative on Article 3(3) suggests erasing the word "is", which is the measure of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84627	Amendment No 104 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84628	Dear Representative Bauk will surely answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84629	Mr. Vice President, I'm sure with this style begins the largest number of sentences spoken by the people watching this debate. In fact, I'm pretty sure they'll start their sentences with that style when this law is passed, but that's not our problem anymore. So I promised the people who gave us this opportunity to quote their speeches, so we're going to read a little bit further on the alphabet, so Mr. Drago Christmas, introduced himself as a new pensioner. Then Mrs. Dunja Mihelec, economist from Omis, Mrs. Duška Žužić, tourist worker, Ms. Emma Jedalinić, teacher and librarian at Oš Omisalj, Mr. Ernest Marinković, journalist from Rijeka, Mrs. Fatima Doric, housekeeper from Omis, Mr. Daniel Glavasevic, informationist, Mrs. Gloria Fabianić Jelović, lawyer and journalist Radio Rijeka, Mr. Goran Gracan, psychologist from Rijeka, Mr. Goran Gržančić, gynaecologist on the island of Krk and Mrs. Hajdi Babajić, employee of Rijeka Airport and renter of the apartments, this is what I managed to reproduce from the reproduction of these clips we got. Since we've now reached the letter of the hour, I'm going to continue by the alphabet as long as time and possibilities technically allow me, we're asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84630	The following amendment is the number 105 of SDP Representatives Clubs, as referred to in Article 3(3), which requires the erasure of the words 'whom'.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84631	Thank you. Amendment No 105 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84632	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84633	Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary of State, you are insisting in your statement that this law represents the most severe law enforcement of the law, the constitution, the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the will of the citizens of Omis, Krka, PGZ, all of Croatia, who now know thanks to us that this is not the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia in terms of gas supply. This is the strategic interest of some other countries, above all Hungary and the economic failure of this project, will pay Croatian citizens out of their pockets with a more expensive price of gas. And that's what you wanted to hide, but articles 6 and Article 12 deny you. Fortunately, this debate on amendments gives us the opportunity for Croatian citizens to hear the truth and see what kind of government they are dealing with. No wonder almost 80% of Croatian citizens do not support this government's direction. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84634	Amendment 106 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 3(3) shall require the erasure of the word ‘storage’.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84635	Amendment No 106 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84636	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84637	Namely, the word harmony has nothing to ask in this law and therefore we propose to delete it. In this law, it's all inconsistencies. This law is in breach of spatial plans, this law is in breach of the opinion of the profession, this law is in line with the views of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, this law is in breach of the will of the citizens, the island of Krk, this law is in violation of the will of the citizens of Omis, this law is in conflict with common sense, this law is in breach of honesty. That is why we are asking for the word "storage" to be thrown out of the bill. Voting, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84638	The amendment of 107 SDP's Club to Article 3(3) requires that the word "in" be deleted again, I assume you are looking for a vote after the Honored State Secretary says, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84639	Amendment No 107 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84640	And yet, here you go, dear representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84641	All I had to say about the letter in already said, so I won't repeat it, but I'm not asking for a vote, I'm withdrawing this amendment, so let the letter remain in this bill because we know how much your heart has grown.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84642	The following amendment is the 108 Club of Representatives of the SDP-A, in Article 3(3), which requires that the words of the terms of the conditions be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84643	Amendment No. 108 of the SDP's Club of Representatives is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84644	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84645	Thank you very much, Vice President. When it comes to conditions, it should be mentioned that the conditions for the land terminal were ready, so it is already envisaged by the spatial plan of the municipality of Omisalj and the coastal-goran County. There are even a powerful location permit to build a land terminal. We know from the studies that we're being shown that he's more financially profitable than a floating one. The engagement of domestic construction operations that have the resources needed to build it is also foreseen, the colleagues talked about it, and we know that the construction operation in Croatia needs jobs, jobs that can be charged. The employment of domestic labour as well as land operator is also foreseen. All of these are therefore conditions which have been in favour and in favour of building a land terminal. And a land terminal, as I said, can be built as fast as floating, since floating requires additional infrastructure and it is not only that ship that will dock in Omislje, but it is also a ship that will transport that gas to Rijeka's oil port, as well as an adaptation of the port for the acceptance of that cargo, then skip to the car, tanks or tank trains. All together, therefore, it suggests that the conditions for the land terminal were mature, were favourable, but that the government for our unknown reason decided to ignore it and chose to float the terminal. So why the floating terminal? Whose interests are behind this decision when everything speaks in favor of the land terminal? Thank you very much and please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84646	Amendment 109 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 3(3) suggests erasing words to the location.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84647	Amendment 109 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84648	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84649	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we wanted to further indicate absurdity. The environmental impact study refers to the change in land terminal procedures by introducing the first phase of a floating terminal which is not legal, only to avoid the problem of the failure of a floating terminal with spatial plans. The land terminal is in line with the spatial plan and has been issued a location permit. Since floating is not in line with the spatial plan, a local permit cannot be issued for it, the government has thought that the floating terminal is being penetrated as the first phase of the land terminal, although in this way the Law on Spatial Planning and the Construction Act is being violated. In the ruling of the government of the Republic of Croatia, there is no guarantee that the second phase of construction of the land terminal will ever occur, but that the realization of the second phase will approach if economic reasons exist. Smart enough. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84650	Amendment 110 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 3(3) shall require the erasure of words with.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84651	The amendment of 110 SDP Representatives Clubs is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84652	Here's Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84653	Here I will continue, we have also heard from Mr Igor Djekanović, a specialist and road transport engineer, Mrs Ines Boban Sttiglic, a tourist worker from Omis, Mrs Irena Žic Orlic, a fosterer in an island kindergarten with a green flag, and we will release her file on the last amendment when you will take away my word, but what will I do when it is last. Mr. Ivan Šverko magister, engineer of the building from Rijeka, Mr. Ivan Žuvić, low-building technician from Omis, Mr. Ivica Jakominić from Njivica father of five children, Mr. Ivo Mileusnić curator of the maritime and historical museum, Mrs. Jasenka Alić Tadić, librarian, Mrs. Jelena Bigović graduated sociologist, Mr. Josip Đurđević released him before the first warning, presented himself as a member of the HDZ, for which we thank him, Mrs. Katica Jakovčić retired and former director of the tourist community of Omisalj, Mr. Zdenko Kirinčić, head of energy of the island of Krk, head of the lie and deputy head of one of the municipalities in Krk, Mr. Kristian Čapić, lawyer from Rijeka and Mr. Lucano Kirn retired from Omis and former worker of DINA Petrochem. So much for this trip, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84654	Amendment 111 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3(3) requires the removal of the words of the building.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84655	Thank you. Amendment 111 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84656	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84657	The word of the building, so former HDZ and MOST prime minister Oreshkovic called the citizens, he did it to the poor because he did not know Croatian well, so we can forgive him. But you, your government that rules Croatian better than Mr. Oreshkovic, treats citizens, not as people, but as things. What citizens? Citizens whose opinion you intend to bring to that ship's son, the citizens you intend to poison, citizens whose opinion you do not respect, there's buildings, buildings, things, people of... , material, everything, just not human beings, it's your relationship with them and that's why we think this is a key word in this law and we're asking for a vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84658	Amendment 112. SDP representative's club in Art. 3 Paragraph 3 requires deleting the word consistency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84659	Amendment 112. The SDP representative club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and considers it not to be a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84660	Dear Representative Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84661	Thank you, Vice President. We have today emphasized several times, that this law must be consistent with the interests of the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, including the citizens of Primorje Goranj County living on the island of Krk, who live in the vicinity of Omis. He's not in sync with him. He's not even in line with local government decisions. And as we mentioned several times during the day, all the political options, all the political parties, to whom the citizens of Krk gave their vote and who represent them during the local self-government, have unanimously decided that they are against the floating terminal. Therefore, this law does not comply with the will and will of citizens, is not in line with the public interest, is not in line with the strategic interests of Croatia, where it foresees 2 stages, one floating, one land, fixed, thus creating a double cost for HR, and allowing those who will non-profitable to work to settle from the state budget. And while people who have jobs, businesses, who are entrepreneurs, live on tourism, will not have the opportunity, to make up for the loss that will result from floating terminals, on their continents, in their balance sheets of their companies, and that will eventually make them pay less taxes in the state budget. So, there will be 2 losses, one will be a shortage of profits, and the other will be a shortfall for the state budget of their earnings, please vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84662	The next amendment is 113. SDP representative's club in Art. 3 Paragraph 3 which suggests deleting the word changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84663	Thank you. Amendment 113. The SDP representative club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and considers it not to be a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84664	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84665	I think the meaning of the word is to change the general knowledge and not to be explained. This proposal does not change anything, especially nothing better. With this proposal, everything remains the same as it was. The behaviour of the HDZ that does not lead, but absolutely no interest in the opinion of the citizens, this government does not change for... She's been a constant for years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The insistence of the SDP is also constant to protect these citizens as far as they can from us. That's why we stayed here, there's no one from HDZ who's gone, what they care about the citizens of Krk, what they care about the islanders, whether they're going to be poisoned with chlorine, they're gone, it's not their interest. They left the only one of you... Here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We believe that our obligation, our duty, is to change things better, change things better, and that's why we change the word in your bill, there's no room for it, and we're asking it to be thrown out and we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84666	The next amendment is 114. SDP representative's club in Art. 3. Item 3 asking for word deleting is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84667	Amendment No. 114. The SDP representative club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and considers it not to be a better technical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84668	By motto, I understand that Honorable Representative Bauk will.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84669	So, against the construction of a floating LNG terminal in Omislj on the island of Krk, the following citizens, Mr. Luka Mihajlović, graduate engineer from the river Ljubica Lončar, tourist worker, Mrs. Maja Mahulj, graduate economist from Omis, Ms. Marica Trbović master and building engineer, Ms. Marija Kovacevic social worker, Mr. Marijan Cindrić retired from Njivica, Mr. Marin Barać, Mr. Marin Lazarić Director at the Empire on Rab, Mr. Marinko Žic head of Punat municipality, Mr. Marino Kirinčić, insuranceer from Njivica, Mr. Marko Jedrilinić footballer from Omis, Mrs. Melita Zec, president of the Carnival Association Omisalna Balbani, if I read well also Ms. Milica Alajbeg, in the hotel of Madricanjska, the administrative institution of Mirjanja, Mirjanja, Mirjannažnažnažnažnažnažnažnajnajnajnajnajnajnaj. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84670	Amendment 115. SDP representative's club in Art. 3 Item 3 requires deleting words to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84671	Amendment 115 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at better technical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84672	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84673	... I have lived in Krk, or Omislje for 38 years, so I would say a few words about the LNG terminal, which does not bring any good to the community. [[Specially enabled.]] Speaking of which, and as far as I'm concerned, it started in the late '90s. Mr. So, there are people who worked on the study environment might welcome a pension on the project and as much as he listens to the presentation of the study, he realizes that nothing good will come to this aquarium or the Gulf of Rijeka. All you have mentioned before me is the varicina in the sea, the main capacity around this area is tourism, but it has not developed enough yet, but with the appearance of such a terminal it will not do any good. But so also in agriculture and fishing and when we look at all that, then this LNG, this floating and tourism and agriculture don't go together. He considers this gentleman whose opinion you, as we see, do not care at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84674	The next amendment is 116 SDP Representatives Club in Article 3(3), which proposes to delete words to which.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84675	Thank you. Amendment No 116 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84676	Thank you. Dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84677	Thank you very much. So we must once again emphasise how the cat is sold in the bag by speaking about the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia regarding gas. So we need some 2.6 billion cubic gas annually, half of which we produce ourselves, half of which we import and the stress test that was carried out at EU level has shown that we are not at risk, and that we can also read that LNG terminal is not a strategic interest because Croatia will neither buy the capacity nor buy that gas. This also proves that the first gas company signed a 10-year contract with Gazprom to buy one billion cubic gas annually, it is for the biggest consumer of the Kutin petrochemicals. So as far as I know Kutina is still in the hands of the Republic of Croatia, so it is a logical conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia would not allow the conclusion of this contract that the floating LNG is a strategic interest in gas supply. So another lie in order to match some foreign profits. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84678	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. We move to Amendment 117 of the SDP Representatives Club on Article 3(3) of the term of duration shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84679	Thank you. Amendment 117 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84680	Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84681	Thank you very much. So we said several times that both the Omisalj municipality and the coastal-goran County are looking for 4 conditions to support the floating terminal, which are economic, energy, ecological and aesthetic. None of these four conditions are met, while at the land terminal all this is met. Otherwise, the budget of the Republic of Croatia and the municipality of Omisalj is damaged by this lex LNG as it determines the direct award of concession to companies... Croatia at a minimum price, since it must drastically reduce the costs of that loser and avoid competitions for the award of the concession, that is, a higher price offered is possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The amount of concession fee is divided by a third so that the municipality remains some 250,000 kuna per year. The budget of the Municipality of Omisalj can expect 100,000 kuna per year from the municipal fee. What can he do with it? Well, it can make one ten-foot-square-sized sanitary node. At the same time, around 50m euros of tourism overnight income, 800 000 overnight stays, the Omisalj municipality itself, in the budget area, are expected to receive around 8 million kuna per year on the basis of concessions, public land leases, tourist tax. So what are we going to jeopardize with a potentially floating disaster? We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84682	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. We move to Amendment 118 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3(3), in Article 3(3), its word is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84683	Thank you. Amendment number 118 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84684	Here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the truths keep repeating, and one must repeat it again, since the coalition partners also went in that direction today. So why isn't it true when the government says that floating is better and more cost-effective than the land LNG terminal? So the government claims that the floating LNG terminal is cheaper. That's not true. Why isn't it true? Because the government cowardly compares the price of a floating LNG terminal capacity of 2 and a half billion cubic meters to the price of land LNG terminal capacity of 6 billion metres cubic. Well, that and the kid in first grade math knows you can't compare. If the capacity of a floating and land terminal is reduced to the same level, then the land terminal is cheaper for about 100 million erura, 100m euros because it does not require the construction of special bunkers for supplying ships and trucks with liquid gas. So it's the truth that tries to hide itself as a coward's egg in another lex specialis that has been written for some others who will make a profit, and all of this will naturally be paid by the citizens of Croatia. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84686	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his explanation. We shall move to the next amendment number 119 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3(3) in Article 3(3) of the wording shall be deleted. Here you go, colleague Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment No 119 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP is not accepted, an explanation: the applicant has considered the same and considers that it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84688	Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84689	Here is what we try to convince from time to time what the citizens of the area sent to us in their tones. This is Mrs. Sonja... The one from '82. He's been living in Omiseye since '85. He's working at DINI, now he's retired from DINA, otherwise he's an economist, very, very dissatisfied with the current LNG proposal that destroys what's left to be saved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The lady says she only accepts what our chief said and that's a land terminal. Please do not ruin this small part of the Croatian coast, as a land terminal at the former location of DINA can according to all world criteria as DINA was built. And how it treated all the facilities while DINA was in office. But to be out of sight from Njivica. And to be minimized by the sea. Here, says this valuable citizen of ours whose opinion we care about, so we're passing it on to you, which you don't even consider because it's none of your business. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84690	I thank my fellow Stazic, I would ask you in your testimony that we stick to the specific amendments and not the broader ones, but well that's your style of expression. We move on to the next amendment No. 120. The SDP representative’s club, in Article 3, paragraph 3 of the word ‘building’, shall be deleted. Here you go, colleague Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84691	Amendment No. 120 SDP representatives' clubs are not accepted, the applicant has considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84692	Mr. Vice President. Since the beginning of today's session, the presidents have allowed for a slightly wider contextualisation of the amendments but have not allowed tonics, so I suggest we change. We won't talk at all, and that way we won't get off the subject, we'll just play tone records. As for the building, the words "building" I remember a Croatian prime minister who wanted all the best in Croatian buildings, he was not a long prime minister, you replaced him yourself, here you did not vote, I remember that, you were against it, but he was replaced by HDZ himself, against the building of a type of floating LNG terminal in Omislj on the island of Krk the following citizens also came to us. Mr. Miro Čaušević retired from Omis, Mrs. Morana Caušević, history of archeology, Mrs. Natasa Jurlin, Director of the Tourist Office, Tourist Board of the City of Krk, Mr. Nedjeljko Dunato retired from Krk, Mr. Nikola Lazić, teacher from Rijeka, Ms. Nikolina Tadic, kindergarten teacher, Mr. Ognjen Antunac dipl.ing. Shipbuilding, Mr. Ozren Gruičić dip. Inches. Security, Mr. Ricardo Zgardeli student from Rijeka, Mr. Robert Antun Kraljić, head of Malinska-Dubašnica municipality, Ms. Romana Volarić, tourist worker from Omis, Ms. Sandra Bilicki, Accounting Officer from Omishi, Sanja Tamarut she introduced herself as a Rijekan, a submarine and an antifascist and a Mrs. Snježana Brusic, renter from Omis. And we're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84693	I thank my colleague, Bauk. We move on to the next amendment No. 121. The SDP representative club, as referred to in Article 3(3), in Article 3(3), the words ‘requires’ shall be deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment No. 121. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnic expression. Thank you, dear fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84695	Thank you, dear fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84696	The word: "requires" and should be deleted from this bill because you absolutely do not respect citizens' demands. People's demands mean nothing to you. Here we go all day, reading the names of the people who tried to send us the tones, their opposition. We represent them, you should represent them as a political party, but you don't represent them, you don't represent their interests, you always represent the interests of capital and your own interests. Therefore, we are therefore here to talk about this presentation, that we will not be tired of passing on to you citizens of those who have worked hard, have made an effort to fight for their better life, for a cleaner environment, for a safer future, so that they can continue to work in tourism, so that they can develop and all of this you want to take away from them with this terminal, stubbornly, persistently, incomprehensiblely stupid. And incomprehensible to those fellow citizens of ours. And that's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84697	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Before continuing, I welcome students and students. Ivan Kukulević Sakcinski from Ivanec and their professors and professors. Welcome. We move on to the next amendment No. 122. [[Applause]] The SDP representative's club, as referred to in Article 3. In Article 3(3), the words "baseline" are deleted, Mr. Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84698	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment No. 122. A SDP representative club is not accepted. The applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomothtechnician in a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84699	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84700	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's what I'm sorry school students see as a small interest in very burning issues in the Republic of Croatia. What fascinates me, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, is that the promoter gives the same explanation for these amendments that we have brought as some kind of philibuster, what is said in the American political system and those that I have submitted, which have some more meaningful approach, which is to get out of the law by mentioning LNG terminal locations. In fact, it shows the relationship of this authority to the general adoption of laws in this Parliament but then the reasoning, the writing of amendments, and the refusal, or acceptance of them. They're all the same. Whether someone is constructive or not, it doesn't matter if someone wants to attract attention or wants to fix the law, it doesn't matter. It's only important that we reject it because it's proposed by someone, and that someone isn't someone from the ruling coalition, that's the only thing that matters. And if at that rate we are discussing, if we are discussing these values, then what laws can we possibly come to in this House? We have never been afraid to accept what we think is good, but that same majority is systematically afraid to accept something proposed by a minority, only with the intention of improving certain legal proposals. The second reading and the third reading of this law took, so this is a 25-year-old project, and we need to solve it now in two weeks, no. We should at least send it to another reading because of locations and because of a whole series of other implications that are very important. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84701	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. We move to the next amendment number 123 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3. In Article 3(3), the words ‘preservation’ shall be deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment 123 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84703	Thank you. Dear fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84704	The word "preservation" really has nothing to ask in this bill because there is no protection of the environment, no interest of the citizens, no interest of the Republic of Croatia, except for the interest of the government and the interest of the HDZ and some individuals we will be looking for in Medjugorje tomorrow when this thing is over. We've received a large number of proposals here, citizens' opinions. These amendments wouldn't be if you had accepted another law reading, then we might have a solution in an even, constructive debate. So this debate, this explanation of our amendments, is an opportunity for us to take this second reading without you, and finally and better without you, what are you going to do to us? What can I get you? You're not protecting the interests of the citizens anyway. We, when we list this list of people who came to us, and we've already made and repeat the arguments against this LNG terminal floating we're going to end this. It will remain a bitter taste for the citizens of Krk, for the people of Omis, for those who follow this debate, will remain a bitter taste of how the ruling structure does not lead, but not even a little account of their life interests. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84705	Thank you, fellow Stazic. We move on to the next amendment of 124 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3. In Article 3(3), the wording is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84706	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment 124 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted, the applicant considered it and believes it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84707	I thank my colleague Milatić. Dear colleague Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84708	I'll be working on the word, here we are already working on this for almost six hours, we've reached about a third, a little less than a third, and this is the last group of citizens whose names I'm going to read to us, given permission to release their tone records in the Parliament. Mr. Stephen... young entrepreneur from Rijeka, Mr. Tonči Škarpa Renter, Mrs. Tanja Grbac Saftić, hairdresser and renter, Ms. Tea Perinčić presented herself as a Croatian from the PGZ, Mrs. Vedrana Brusić from Punat municipality, Mrs. Vedrana Naglić from Omis, Mrs. Višnja Dorčić Kereković retired and senior professor of secondary vocational school, Mr. Vojko Braut lawyer from Rijeka, Mr. Zdenko Cerović from the Faculty of Attending and Management from Opatija, Mr. Zdenko Petrak a craftsman from Krka, professor of the Homeland War and former president of the Association of Volunteers of Homeland War, Mr. Zoran Skala Engineering Engineer from Njivica, Mrs. Žaklina Ukkar of construction and Mrs. Željka Željićević from Nji. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are also asking for a vote on this amendment. And also the SDP club, you can put me for two minutes, ask for a break of 10 minutes to call the club and agree on a further way to work on this topic. Name No, no, no. [[Upadica Miljan Brkić: I thank my colleague Bauk.]] Yeah, we got two minutes. [[We've got 2 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84709	Yeah, yeah, I'll give it to you, so you're done. Now go ahead and take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84710	So the SDP Representatives Club is looking for a 10-minute break to hold a club session and agreed on a further way of working on this, on this subject, since there are over 200 amendments left. Our goal of this debate was to defacto make a second reading of the LNG Law and in these few hours of debate we succeeded and in a way that we were the only ones who were actually saying, so that the government proposed a second reading we could have another debate. Since the government didn't do it we in this, Rules of Procedure allowed and legitimate way, defacto held a debate on the final draft law in the second reading. Given the large number of citizens who gave us the right to speak on their behalf, to release their and tonne records, which, by one firm interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, was disabled, so we were forced to reproduce their demands, which are largely reduced to not being a floating LNG in Omislje. And given everything that's already been said and that we don't have much more to say, we're looking for this break so that the club can meet and agree on a further way to work on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84711	I thank my colleague, Bauk. I'm setting a break to 15 hours and 35 minutes. Thank you very much. It's 3:25 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.35 HOURS]] We move on to Amendment number 125 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3. In Article 3(3), the wording of the building is deleted. Here you go, colleague Milatić. I'm a colleague of Bauk's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84713	Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84714	Thank you very much. Amendment No 126 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3 In Article 3(3), the wording of the existing word is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84715	.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84716	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84717	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Amendment No 127 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 3. In Article 3(3), the wording is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84718	.../Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84719	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We are looking for a vote for Amendment 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 144, 145, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 158, 158, 159, 160, 162, 163, 164, 165, 168, 168, 168, 170, 171, 172, 174, 175, 176, 178, 178, 178, 178, 178, 180, 182, 183, 184, 184, 185, 186, 187, 188, 189, 188, 190, 190, 191, 192, 194, 195, 196, 196, 196, 197, 199, 199, 199, 199, 202, 202, 204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 208, 210, 210, 212, 212, 214, 214, 215, 215, 216, 216, 218, 218, 221, 221, 221, 221, 221, 222, 222, 222, 222, 222, 222, 222, 224, 224, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 226, 224, 226, 226, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 224, 221, 221, 22, 22, 211, 22, 22, 22, 211, 211, 220, 211, 220, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 220, 211, 211, 220, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 21, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, 211, Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84721	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Let's just see about all these amendments, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84722	.../Speaker disabled./... Excuse me. The government does not accept all the amendments stated by Mr. Honorable Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84723	I thank my colleague Milatić. We are going to the 227th Amendment of Honored counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. In Article 4(1), the words on the island of Krk are deleted, the words on the island of Krk are deleted, the words in the port of Rijeka are deleted, the words on the island of Krk are deleted, the words on the island of Krk are deleted, the words on the island of Krk are deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment since the location of the terminal is defined by the 2008 ruling of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which preceded studies in selecting the location and accommodation of the terminal, one in '94. One in 2008, which defined the location in Omislj in the industrial zone next to the former plant Dina Petrochemy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84725	Thank you, Mr. Milatic. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84726	Yes, the location has been selected for a land LNG terminal, and due to the reasons for the above amendment, I request a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84727	Thank you. We move to Amendment 228 of the SDP Representatives Club on Article 5. In Article 5(1), the words ‘infrastructure’ shall be deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84728	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84729	Thank you. Mr. Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84730	We ask for a vote on this amendment and for amendments 229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 234, 235 and 236 if the government does not accept them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84731	Thank you. Please, Mr. Milatić, show the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government does not accept those amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84733	Thank you. We move to Amendment 237 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists of Independent Lists on Article 5. Article 5(3), which reads as follows: with a view to removing adverse environmental impact, the UPP-infection technology must be closed in a closed cycle without the use of seawater and chlorine. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. Explanation: the environmental protection issue has been resolved in accordance with the Environmental Protection Act and possible technological solutions and limit values through environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84735	Thank you. There is no amendment to the amendment. We move to next amendment number 238 of MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic. In Article 5(1), the words on the island of Krk shall be deleted, the words shall be deleted in paragraph 2 and a designated port of Rijeka which shall constitute a terminal infrastructure for the UPP shall be provided for the place of supply. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84736	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The reasons for this amendment are the same as for the reasons for the amendment under No 227.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84737	Thank you. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84738	For the same reason as before, we want to leave an open location if it's a floating terminal. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84739	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Now we have one group of SDP amendments again. Is it because you want us to read each other or a colleague of our own, Bauk?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84740	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84741	Okay, thanks. So I ask my colleague, Milatić, to take note of amendments to the SDP from Amendment 239 to Amendment 291 to the end of the SDP Representatives' Club. Is that right, Comrade Bauk? Here you go, Mr. Milatic. [[Bauk: That's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government does not accept those amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84743	Thank you. Be my guest, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84744	We're asking for a vote on each of these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84745	Okay. Thank you. We shall move to the next amendment number 292 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists to Article 7 in paragraph 7.99 is replaced by the number 40. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84746	Amendment number 292 of the Most Independent Lists is not accepted by the government. The Law on maritime good and seaports provides for the possibility of awarding concessions for up to 99 years with the consent of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84747	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milatić, since there is no proposer,... The speaker doesn't understand. We'll vote. We move on to the next amendment to 293 respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic, Article 7 is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84748	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84749	Thank you. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84750	For the same reasons as before, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84751	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Now we have a re-group of amendments from 294 and beyond. Because you want a colleague named Bauk individually or together?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84752	We agree that the government's representative is manifested by amendment number 315.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84753	Thank you. So we are moving on to amendments from 294 to final amendment 315. I ask the government's opinion, Mr. Milatić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84754	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Those amendments are not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84755	Thank you. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84756	We ask for a vote on these amendments, of course, individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84757	I see you're tired of me, so don't even get up, thank you very much. We shall move to the next amendment number 316 of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists to Article 8 in paragraph 1 of number 25 is replaced by the number 20 in paragraph 1, indent 1, first, number 2,00 is replaced by the number 2.20. In paragraph 2, number 25 is replaced by 20, and number 50 is replaced by 40, paragraph 2. indent 1 first number 4,00 is replaced by 5.00, paragraph 3 is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84758	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The government does not accept these amendments. The Proposer considers compensation... 4 and 8 kunas suitable and sufficient. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84759	Thank you. We will vote on this amendment. Amendment No 317 of the Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA to Article 8. In Article 8(1), paragraph 1 is amended and reads as follows: Permanent part in the amount of 4.00 kuna per metre of the quadrupled maritime goods. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Permanent part of 8 kuna per metre of the quadrupled maritime goods. In paragraph 13, paragraph 1 is amended and reads: ‘I apologize in paragraph 3. subparagraph 1.’ is amended and reads as follows: Permanent part of 16 kuna per metre of the quadrupled maritime goods. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84760	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government does not accept that amendment because the applicant considers that the fees of 2, 4 and 8 kuna for those periods are appropriate and sufficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84761	We thank you, we will vote on this amendment when it comes to the agenda. Now we have a group of amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives again. Mr. Bauk you want individually or together?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84762	Mr. Vice-President, so until the next amendment to the second proposal, which is, in my record, amendment number 361 of the Live Wall and SNAGA's Club, we agree that the government's representative is being united.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84763	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. So we move to Amendments 318 to 360 final. I ask the government's representative, Mr. Milatić, to manifest himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The government is shown not to accept those amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84765	Thank you. Dear colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84766	We're looking for a vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84767	I thank my colleague, Bauk. We move to Amendment number 361 of the Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA to Article 12. In Article 12, paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 6 are deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84768	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. In particular, the draft bill regulates the security of supply compensation in accordance with Regulation No 2017/1938 laying down the obligations of the Member States to implement, inter alia, preventive measures for security of supply. That fee will not affect the price of gas in the Republic of Croatia towards final customers, but will be determined annually by the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency under existing transport tariffs, i.e. the cost of gas transport services.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84769	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milatić. We'll vote on this amendment when it comes to the agenda. We move on to amendment number 362 of respected colleagues, Domagoj Hajdukovic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84770	An explanation as well as an ex-ante as with the amendment of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84771	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84772	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is therefore this famous article that prescribes compensation, i.e. the compensation of taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, unless the capacities are completed. So my proposal is to completely delete him. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84773	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. We're moving on to the next amendments. Amendment number 363 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 13 of Article 13 shall be deleted. Here you go, colleague Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84774	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That amendment is not accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84775	Thank you. Answer, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84776	Although I have already received one warning, I risk getting others, but I find it unusual to hear the voice of the people of Omis or Krk in this assembly and play the tone record. .../The speaker plays the tone record./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84777	Thank you, fellow Stazic. You said it yourself, you already know it. Based on an article. 240, and related to art. In 201 and 238, I give you a reminder by taking away your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84778	I thank you and receive a warning with joy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84779	Thank you very much. We move on to the next amendment No. 364 Club of Representatives of the SDP in Art. 13. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84780	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government does not accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84781	Thank you. Dear colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84782	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the enormous effort that has been made by the citizens of Omis, Krka and the Primorje-Gorski County to indicate the unconstitutional, illegality, the damage of this Law obliges us to at least a part of them to speak their mind loudly here in the assembly, therefore, risking a warning and I want to release the voice of one of the inhabitants of Omis. .../The speaker plays the tone record./... Here, the lady made a great sum of everything we've been talking about here for hours, and we hope that at least a part of them will still have a chance in this assembly to show dissatisfaction with this proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84783	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Based on an article. 239, and in relation to art. In 201 and 238, I give you a warning. Just tell me because you want to vote? Yes, you do. Thank you very much. And I didn't ask my fellow Stazic for the previous amendment, my apology. Do you want a vote? Yeah. Thank you very much. Moving to Amendment No. 365 Club of Representatives of the SDP in Art. 13. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84786	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84787	The public debate on environmental impact study was attended by 400 citizens of 3000 Omis residents, thus showing great interest in this topic. There were about 8.5 thousand citizens on the seabed who protested against this law, and the petition was signed by 19 thousand. Therefore, by risking another reminder, I believe that we must allow one more of them to speak out loud about what they are thinking, so now Vedrana Brusic will say her position on this law. .../The speaker plays the tone record./... Here, Mrs Brusic said nicely, together we can do a lot for a better, better quality life for the inhabitants of Omis, Krka, Primorje-Gorski County and all of Croatia and ask for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84788	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Based on an article. 240, and related to art. In 201 and 238, I give you a reminder by taking away your words. We move to the next amendment of the 366 Club of Representatives of the SDP to Art. 13. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment No. The government does not accept the SDP's 366 Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84791	Thank you, Mr. Milatich. Here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, out of the protest to interpret the Rules of Procedure and to allow MPs to quote other people in a way that read their thoughts and texts, or to reproduce their words from audio, that they are not allowed to use audio recording and direct thoughts to reproduce, I will also release one such audio recording to the citizens of Croatia to hear what they think about this problem. .../The speaker plays the tone record./... So I believe that in my debate I also included Mrs. Vedrana's words that this is part of my debate and my quote of her thoughts, and I would ask when the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to decide whether this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure or not, that if it claims that it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that all these warnings should be withdrawn from us to the representatives who will receive them or have received them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84793	I thank my colleague Klisovic. Just say, would you like to vote? Yes, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Yes, I'd like a vote.]] As I have already told my colleagues, I give you a notice on the basis of Article 239 in conjunction with Article 201 and Article 238. We move to the next amendment of the 367 Club of Representatives of the SDP to Article 13. In Article 13, the word “legal ” is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment number 367 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84796	Thank you. Dear colleague Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84797	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's what I'd like to quote to Mrs. Vishnja, who in a nice explicit way will explain what I was about to say, only she said it nicely, perhaps even better than I would say. .../The speaker plays the tone record./... The end of Mrs. Vishnja's quote and I demand a vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84798	I thank my esteemed colleague Klisovic. On the basis of Article 240, in conjunction with Articles 201 and 238, I give you a notice on the withdrawal of words. We move to the next amendment of the number 368 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 13 in the word ‘safety’ of Article 13 shall be deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment number 368 of the SDP Representatives Club is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84801	Here you go, Mr. Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84802	Mr. Vice President, we are asking for a vote on this amendment and on the amendments, in conclusion, with 377.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84803	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. I ask the Government's representative to take note of these amendments, as my colleague Bauk said, in conclusion with Amendment 377.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84804	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government does not accept those amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84805	Thank you. We move to Amendment 378 of the SDP Representatives Club on Article 15. In Article 15, the word "marine" is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84806	That amendment is not accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84807	Thank you. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84808	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Even the old Latins said "vox popula", "vox dei", or "people's voice" is the voice of God, and that's why I want to quote Mrs. Tanja Vrbac Saftic. .../The speaker plays the tone record./... Here I think that Mrs. Vrbac Saftić made it very clear, these economical, or tourist implications that this project can have, which is why I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84809	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in conjunction with Article 201, 238, I give you a warning. We move to next amendment number 379 of respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic, Article 15 is deleted. Here you go, Mr. Milatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment number 379, Mr. Assembly Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, is not accepted by the government of the Republic of Croatia. According to the location of the terminal defined by the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 2008, which preceded studies of location selection, terminal accommodation, is one from 1994 and is one from 2008 which defined the location in Omislj in the industrial zone next to the former plant Dina petrochemicals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84812	Thank you. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You may be able to sleep peacefully ignoring the voice of the citizens. I can't explain my amendment for that, too, I'd like to quote Mrs. Teu Perincic. .../The speaker plays the tone record./... Here, Mrs. Perrincic said everything. I will also be happy to receive your notice by taking away the right word and requesting a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84814	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic. Based on an article. 240, and related to art. In 201 and 238, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Moving to Amendment No. 380 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP in Art. 16. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance Here you go, colleague Milatić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Amendment No. 380 SDP Representatives Clubs The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. The word “step” must remain in that proposal for a law to enter into force and make the biggest energy project in the Republic of Croatia of strategic interest to improve the diversification of energy sources, in particular gas and improve the use of the gas system in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84817	I thank Mr. Milatić. Dear colleague Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84818	Since I am the only one who has the right to speak for the club, Mr Milatić did not understand the amendment. We did not propose to delete the word "step" but to add the word "no". So the law does not enter into force As for the warning, of course the captain is the last to leave the ship, so I will be pleased to accept the taking of words on the last amendment. [[Intruder Milatić: I've got it all figured out.]] Mrs. Irena Žic Orlic is a kindergarten teacher, and listening to all these clips, so I've been particularly impressed as something that should be released for the end, so here, colleague Hajdukovic will perform....../The speaker plays the tone record./... Here, there are eight seconds left, Mr. Secretary of State. Congratulations on your endurance. This was a second reading of the law and we look forward to voting and we ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84819	Thank you, dear colleague Bauk. What did you say, Captain? Based on an article. 240th and Art. In 201 and 238, I give you a reminder by taking away your word. We've exhausted all the amendments with this. I thank Mr. Milatić. I hereby conclude the debate on the declaration of amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. We'll vote on the amendments once the conditions are met. I would like to thank the other respected Secretary of State, Ivo Milatic, and the esteemed Secretary of State, Mr Mario Šiljeg, for the reasons for the amendments submitted. Dear colleagues and colleagues, that is, we have exhausted all the agenda points foreseen for today. We continue on Wednesday, 13.06. at 09.30 with the agenda of the Hunting Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 339. Thank you very much, and I wish you the rest of the pleasant day. SESSION Interrupted at 16.03 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84820	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 333 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The SDP representative club proposes to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "On the final proposal of the Law on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas, P.Z. the number 333 of the third reading will be carried out’. I would now like to ask the Proposer to show himself on the proposed conclusion. With us is respected Ivo Milatić State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84821	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable parliamentary deputies and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed conclusion and suggests that the parliament reject it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84822	Okay. Then we put to the vote a proposal to conclude a SDP representative club that the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposed conclusion did not receive the required majority of the vote 44 was for, 77 against. Now we're going over the amendments that we said last week, the amendment has 378, 380 of them have been withdrawn, so I suggest that it be voted by hand. Does anyone have a problem with that? A colleague of Bauk's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84823	Mr. President. We don't mind being voted manually, only after every 30th we'll ask for an electronic quorum, so you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84824	All right. Then let's go vote manually, the assembly services are ready, so we'll start with the amendments. First amendment of SDP's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept, who is in favour? ... It won't last long because we'll figure it out first, we'll see what the situation is, and then we'll move on later. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, then let's go like this, and I'm saying that the amendment didn't get the number of votes needed because that's clear. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I'd like to count it the first time, so after that, we'll see clearly. ... You can tell me how much it was for, 37 it was for, so the amendment didn't get the required number of votes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to Amendment number two of the same club representatives, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number three of the same club representatives, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number four of the same club representatives, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 5 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? ... Just a little co-worker and co-worker, this was a common practice at a time when there was no electronic vote. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I also find that the 5th amendment has not received the required number of votes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to Amendment 6 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment 7 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to Amendment number 8 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 9 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 10 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 12 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 14 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 15 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the number of votes he needed. Amendment number 16 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 17 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 18 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 19 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 20 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 21 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 22 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23 of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. SDP representative club, 24th Amendment, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 25, who's in favour? Same club reps. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 26. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 27. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 28. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 29. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 30. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. And now we're going to check the quorum, so please engage. Please engage. I say we have a quorum, 76 MPs are in the hall. We're going to Amendment 31. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 32. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 33. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 34. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 35. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 36. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. SDP representative's club number 37th Amendment, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 38. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 39. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. SDP representative's club number 40th Amendment, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 41. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 42. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 43. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 44 of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 45. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 46. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment number 47. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment number 48. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 49. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 50. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 51. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 52. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 53. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 54. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 55. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 56. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 57. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 58. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 59. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 60. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. And now we're going to check the quorum again, so please engage. I'm trying to determine that we have a quorum, 77 MPs checked in. Let's move on, the 61st Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 62. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 63. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 64 of the same club representative, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 65 of the same club representative, who's in favour? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 66 of the same club representative, who's in favour? I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 67. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? Neither did this amendment get a sufficient number of votes. Amendment 68. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 69. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment to the 70th of the same club of MPs, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 71. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment number 72. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 73. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 74. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 75. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? Neither did this amendment get a sufficient number of votes. Amendment 76 of the same club representative, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. SDP's amendment number 77, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 78. SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment number 79 has been withdrawn. Amendment 80. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 81. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 82. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. Amendment 83. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough votes. 84th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 85. SDP counseling club. Who's in? Not enough votes. Amendment 86. SDP counseling club. He didn't get enough votes. 87th of the same club of MPs. He didn't get enough votes. 88. SDP counseling club. He didn't get enough votes. 89. SDP counseling club. He didn't get enough number. 90. SDP counseling club. He didn't win. And please let's get on board and check the quorum. I'm determining that 77 MPs have applied, so we have a quorum. Let's move on, the 91st Amendment Club of Representatives of the SDP. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. 92. SDP counseling club. For? He didn't get enough number. 93. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. 94. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. 95. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. 96. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. 97. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. 98. SDP counseling club. He didn't get enough number. 99. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. 100. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. Amendment 101 of the same club representative. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. Amendment 102. SDP counseling club. He didn't get enough number. Amendment 103. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. Amendment 104 of the same club of representatives. Who's in? There's not enough votes. Amendment No. 105. SDP counseling club. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. Amendment No. 106th of the same club of MPs. Who's in? He didn't get enough number. The 107th amendment was withdrawn. The amendment of 108th of the same club of MPs. Who's in? There's not enough votes. Amendment 109 of the same club representative. There's not enough votes. Amendment 110. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough votes. Amendment 111. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough votes. Amendment 112. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough votes. Amendment 113 of the same club representative. There's not enough votes. 114. Same club of MPs. Who's in? There's not enough votes. 115. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough votes. 116. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough votes. 117, same club of MPs. Who's in? There isn't. 118. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. Uh, 119th, same club of MPs. There's not enough votes for that. And 120. Who's for the same club reps. There's not enough votes. Now we're going to check the quorum one more time, so I'm asking you all to engage. 77 again in the hall, or votes, i.e. representatives. We're going to the 121st amendment of the same club of MPs. Who's in? There's not enough number. 122. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 123rd, same club of MPs. Who's in? There's not enough. 124. Same SDP. Who's in? There's not enough. 125. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 126. Who's in favor of the same club of representatives? There's not enough. 127. SDP. Who's in? There's not enough. 128. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 129. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 130th for the SDP. Who's in? There's not enough. 131st, same club of MPs. Who's in? 132. SDP counseling club. There's not enough. 133. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 134. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 135. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 136. SDP, club. For? There isn't. 137. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 138. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 139. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 140. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 141. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 142. Same club reps who's for? There's not enough votes. 143. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 144. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 145. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 146. Same club of MPs. Who's in? There's not enough. 147. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 148. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There's not enough. 149th of the same club of MPs. Who's in? There's not enough. And 150. SDP counseling club. Who's in? There isn't. And now recheck the quorum. Please, let's get on with it. I'm finding 76 MPs have been involved, so we've got a quorum, so we're moving on with this smart business. 151 SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? There isn't. 152 Advocacy Club of the SDP, who's in favour? There isn't. 153 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 154 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 155 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 156 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 157 Advocacy Club of the SDP, who's in favour? There's not enough. 158 SDP Representatives Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 159 Advocacy Club of the SDP, who's in favour? There's not enough. 160 Club of Representatives of the SDP, who's in favour? There's not enough. 161 Advocacy Club of the SDP, who's in favour? There's not enough. 162 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 163 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 164 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 165 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 166 Club of Representatives of the SDP, who's in favour? There's not enough. 167 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough for that. 168 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough for that. 169 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 170 Club of Representatives of the SDP, for? There's not enough. 171 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 172 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 173 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 174 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 175 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 176 SDP MPs' club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 177 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 178 SDP advocates' club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 179 SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? There's not enough. 180 Club of Representatives of the SDP, who's in favour? There's not enough. Please check the quorum again. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84825	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84826	We've got a quorum, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84827	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President. Please allow me to explain within two minutes the reasons why the Club of Representatives of the SDP is looking for a break related to this item of the agenda. Thank you. Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Subject law is particularly controversial for several reasons. On the one hand, all citizens and citizens of Croatia will be forced to pay compensation when this terminal does not operate positively. On the other hand, the Government of the Republic of Croatia allows the Government to privatise the terminal at any time without any appropriate procedure, even though, as I said, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must pay compensation for its failure to operate, all of which, with opposition from the citizens of the area in which the terminal is being built. So with opposition from the citizens of Omis, Krka, Primorje-goranska and Istria County, not to mention all of this and environmental impairment. However, none of the above mentioned by your esteemed colleague and fellow ruling colleagues has forced you to consider at least having a second reading or since the law was in the emergency procedure of third reading. So you don't care so much about the citizens that you're ready to play this game just to get through the law as quickly as possible and ask God who to give a new rough Borg or someone else millions of dollars from the budget on the cost of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is why we are looking for a ten-minute break so that you and your classmates and colleagues from the ruling may consider your views, of course, and that we from the SDP Representatives Club agree on further actions, and I will invite you all to vote, as you have, on your own conscience, against a document aimed at fighting violence against women, so all of you who do not care about the fight against violence against women, that you also vote in your own conscience and something that violates the lives of the people of Omis, Krk, Rijeka and Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84828	Thank you very much. It's till 2:00.45. I'm asking you to be specific. Party at 14.35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.45 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, please, we must move on. Take your seats. We're going to Amendment 181 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 182 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 183 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 184 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 185 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 186 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 187 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 188 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 189 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 190 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 191 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 192 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 193 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 194 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 195 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 196 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 197 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 198 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get enough votes. Amendment 199 of the same Club of Representatives. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment of 200 Clubs of Representatives of the SDP. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 201 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 202 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 203 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 204 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 205 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 206 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 207 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 208 of the SDP Representatives Club. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 209 of the SDP Representatives Club. For? He didn't win. and Amendment 210 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP. For? He didn't win. We need to check the quorum now, please engage. We have a quorum, 76 is on. We're going to the 211 Club of Representatives of the SDP. For? He didn't win. 212 same club reps. For? He didn't win. 213 Advocacy Club of the SDP. For? He didn't win. 214 Advocacy Club of the SDP. For? He didn't win. 215 SDP. For? He didn't win. 216 SDP. For? He didn't win. 217 SDP. For? He didn't win. 218 SDP. For? He didn't win. 219 SDP. For? He didn't win. 220 SDP. For? He didn't win. 221 SDP. For? He didn't win. 222 SDP. For? He didn't win. 223 SDP. For? He didn't win. 224 SDP. For? He didn't win. 225 SDP. For? He didn't win. 226 SDP. For? He didn't win. 227 MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Who's in? He didn't win. 228 SDP. For? He didn't win. 229 SDP. For? He didn't win. 230 SDP. For? He didn't win. 231 SDP. For? He didn't win. 232 SDP. For? He didn't win. 233 SDP. For? He didn't win. 234 SDP. For? He didn't win. 235 SDP. For? He didn't win. 236 SDP. For? He didn't win. 237 Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists. For? He didn't win. 238 MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. For? He didn't win. 239 Advocacy Club of the SDP. For? He didn't win. 240 SDP MPs' club. For? He didn't win. Please quorum. Please engage. Thank you. 76, we have a sufficient number of agents involved. 241 Advocacy Club of the SDP. For? He didn't win. 242 Club of Representatives of the SDP. For? He didn't win. 243 SDP. For? He didn't win. 244 SDP. For? He didn't win. 245 SDP. For? He didn't win. 246 SDP. For? He didn't win. 247 SDP. For? He didn't win. 248 SDP. For? He didn't win. 249 SDP. For? He didn't win. 250 SDP. For? He didn't win. 251 SDP. For? He didn't win. 252 SDP. For? He didn't win. 253 SDP. For? He didn't win. 254 SDP. For? He didn't win. 255 SDP. For? He didn't win. 256, SDP, for? He didn't win. 257, SDP, for? He didn't win. 258, SDP, for? He didn't win. 259th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 260, SDP, for? He didn't win. 261, SDP, for? He didn't win. 262, SDP, for? He didn't win. 263rd, SDP, for? He didn't win. 264, SDP, for? He didn't win. 265, SDP, for? He didn't win. 266, SDP, for? He didn't win. 267, SDP, for? He didn't win. 268, SDP, for? He didn't win. 269, SDP, for? He didn't win. 270, SDP, for? He didn't win. Please quorum again. I'm confirming that 76 MPs have re-applyed, so let's move on. 271, SDP, for? He didn't win. 272, SDP, for? He didn't win. 273rd, SDP, for? He didn't win. 274, SDP, for? He didn't win. 275, SDP, for? He didn't win. 276, SDP, for? He didn't win. 277, SDP, for? He didn't win. 278, SDP, for? He didn't win. 279, SDP, for? He didn't win. 280, SDP, for? He didn't win. 281st, SDP, for? He didn't win. 282, SDP, for? He didn't win. 283, SDP, for? He didn't win. 284, SDP, for? He didn't win. 285, SDP, for? He didn't win. 286, SDP, for? He didn't win. 287, SDP, for? He didn't win. 288, SDP, for? He didn't win. 289, SDP, for? He didn't win. 290, SDP, for? He didn't win. 291, SDP, for? He didn't win. 292., Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, for? He didn't win. 293, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, for? He didn't win. 294, SDP's Advocacy Club, for? He didn't win. 295, SDP, for? He didn't win. 296, SDP, for? He didn't win. 297, SDP, for? He didn't win. 298th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 299, SDP, for? He didn't win. And 300. SDP, for? He didn't win. Please quorum again. I'm finding 76 re-enlisted. Let's go to 301, SDP, for? He didn't win. 302, SDP, for? He didn't win. 303rd, SDP, for? He didn't win. 304, SDP, for? He didn't win. 305, SDP, for? He didn't win. 306, SDP, for? He didn't win. 307, SDP, for? He didn't win. 308, SDP, for? He didn't win. 309th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 310th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 311, SDP, for? He didn't win. 312, SDP, for? He didn't win. 313, SDP, for? He didn't win. 314, SDP, for? He didn't win. 315th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 316, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, who's in favour? He didn't win. 317. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, who's in favor? He didn't win. 318th, SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? He didn't win. 319, SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? He didn't win. 320th, SDP counseling club, for? He didn't win. 321, SDP Representatives' Club, who's in favour? He didn't win. 322nd, SDP, for? He didn't win. 323rd, SDP, for? He didn't win. 324, SDP, for? He didn't win. 325th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 326, SDP, for? He didn't win. 327, SDP, for? He didn't win. 328th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 329th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 330th, SDP, for? He didn't win. I'm asking you again, quorum. I'm confirming we have a quorum, 76 reported. 331, SDP, for? He didn't win. 332, SDP, for? He didn't win. 333rd, SDP, for? He didn't win. 334, SDP, for? He didn't win. 335, SDP, for? He didn't win. 336, SDP, for? He didn't win. 337, SDP, for? He didn't win. 338, SDP, for? He didn't win. 339, SDP, for? He didn't win. 340, SDP, for? He didn't win. 341, SDP, for? He didn't win. 342, SDP, for? He didn't win. 343, SDP, for? He didn't win. 344, SDP, for? He didn't win. 345th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 346, SDP, for? He didn't win. 347, SDP, for? He didn't win. 348th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 349th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 350, SDP, for? He didn't win. 351, SDP, for? He didn't win. 352, SDP, for? He didn't win. 353rd, SDP, for? He didn't win. 354, SDP, for? He didn't win. 355, SDP, for? He didn't win. 356, SDP, for? He didn't win. 357, SDP, for? He didn't win. 358th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 359th, SDP, for? He didn't win. 360, SDP, for? He didn't win. And please again, check the quorum. We've also got 76 reported this time, so we're moving on, 361st, the Live Wall and SNAGA Club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough number. 362, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes. 363, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 364, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 365th, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 366, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 367, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 368th, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 369, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 370, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 371, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 372, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 373rd, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 374, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 375th, SDP, for? He didn't get enough votes. 376, SDP, for? He didn't get enough number. 377, SDP, who's in? He didn't get enough number. In 378, the SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough number. In 379, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, who's in favour? He didn't get enough number. And in 380, the SDP counseling club, who's in favour? He didn't get enough votes so we came to the end of the amendment, so now we're going to join the vote on the law itself. I am voting on the final proposal of the Act on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas, please let us vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 votes in favour, 25 votes against, have been passed the Terminal Act for Intended Natural Gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84830	Let's head for Mr. Bucarica. That's the last item on the agenda? No, it's not, okay. - Final proposal of the Law on Hydrocarbon Research and Exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 258. The proposal is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. And now really Mr Ivo Milatić will have his word to explain to us what this final bill is all about. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84831	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives. You are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which passed the first reading before this House on 26 January 2018, which includes all observations by parliamentary representatives as well as parliamentary committees and ministries. The final draft of the law further incorporates detailed provisions relating to the harmonisation of research and exploitation with spatial plans and laws governing maritime good. The final draft law combines the energy resources of the Republic of Croatia in terms of hydrocarbon research and exploitation, geothermal waters, gas storage and permanent carbon dioxide disposal resulting in an increase in the efficiency of the energy system through reduction of administrative barriers. The law transposes Directive 9422 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on conditions for the granting and use of authorisation for the search, research and production of hydrocarbons, Directive 2009/31 EC and Directive 2013/30 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of offshore oil gas activities. In changes to the law currently in force, it is because the existing legal framework does not meet the requirements and specificities of each of the above mentioned energy segments and potentials. The current legal framework governing the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia constitutes the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Carbons, the Law on Safety in Coastal Research and Carbon Exploitation and the Mining Act. The hydrocarbon research and exploitation law regulates the management of hydrocarbons, research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, the issue of a permit for exploration and the conclusion of contracts for exploitation, compensation and other issues. However, on the issues of reserve identification, the identification of the field of exploitation, the Register of Research Areas and the Exploitation Fields, the construction and verification of mining projects, the construction and use of mining facilities and facilities, the production of mining plans and the implementation of mining measures, the recovery of space, compensation, security measures and the protection of technical equipment for the operation of certain mining operations and other issues not covered by that law shall be subject to the provisions of the Mining Act and Regulations adopted under the Mining Act. This Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, which we propose, allows for a unique process from public competition through discovery and evaluation phases, to determine the field of exploitation, the development of fields, the production of hydrocarbons and ultimately the recovery, all in accordance with industrial and international practices. As for the situation in the sector since 941, since the data on the exploitation of hydrocarbons on the mainland of the Republic of Croatia totalled 707 million barrels of oil and nearly half a billion natural gas barrels have been obtained. About 360 wells were made and 56 exploitation fields were discovered. In the early 1980s, the oil industry had the biggest momentum in Croatia, with the largest amount of oil obtained at 23 million barrels recorded in 1981. Today we have a completely different picture. In 2017 5 million barrels of oil were acquired. From 2006 to 2016, in the Republic of Croatia we can follow a constant decline in gas reserves from cca 40 billion cubic gases to 11 billion cubic 2017. The fall is most obvious in the exploitation fields of gas in the northern Adriatic. With a significant decrease in production during the same period, we can monitor a slight increase in oil reserves due to improvements in the production technology, while the condensation reserves record an almost constant decline. The situation facing the Republic of Croatia today, in terms of a constant decline in oil and gas production, has been caused by the absence of investment, the discovery of new exploitation fields for the past 20 years. It is a time that we have lost irrevocably, which we have the opportunity to regain by passing this law that will certainly trigger the dormant sector and the Republic of Croatia will bring new, long-awaited investments, i.e. the revitalisation of the industry that in the past was a driver of economy and development. Unless we act today, and taking into account the current production and reserve conditions without additional investment, we can expect the closure of all existing exploitation fields in 2030, or we can simply expect that in the near future we will become gradually dependent on imports. In addition to new competitions to explore hydrocarbon exploitation, competitions for research and exploitation of geothermal water for energy purposes are also planned. For the first time in one place, the Republic of Croatia's energy resources have been pooled, which is the basis for creating a positive investment climate in a country that rationally manages its resources. In this respect, a special emphasis was placed on the high potential of geothermal water geothermia and the exploitation of geothermal water for energy purposes. Since the Pannonian swimming pool of the Republic of Croatia has as much as 60% higher regional thermal gradient than the European average, we believe that by intensifying and valorising this huge, natural potential, hundreds of megawatts of new, clean, renewable and non-cyclical energy could be achieved, and this is the common goal of all EU countries. By passing this law, the Republic of Croatia is opening the door to new investments and will be ready for new competitions within a very short time, to explore the exploitation of hydrocarbons on land, as well as competitions to explore the exploitation of geothermal water. The mainland part of Croatia in terms of research and exploitation has long been known, Slavonia was the main gas and oil dump, the Pannonian swimming pool is a significant geological structure that many world oil and gas companies know very well. Preliminary analyses of available geological data indicated significant geological potential not fully used. It's time for that potential to be exploited. We are witnessing an increase in oil prices on the world market, which is the moment that the Republic of Croatia must take advantage of. 5 research spaces for which the government of the Republic of Croatia signed a contract in 2016, provided new investments in the survey of exploitation, but also economic development of the Republic of Croatia, especially local communities in Eastern Slavonia. That's how it is, for example. only from the fees for hydrocarbon research in two years since the signing of the contract, only the Vukovar-Srijem County has incometed about 2 and a half million kuna in its budget at the expense of the fee for the area of investigation. Already at this initial stage, when activities are not intensive, the local community has been activated, either through the recruitment of investigative activities, or through service activities to companies involved in the project. With the new 11 fields of investigation to be the subject of a new competition, far greater investments will be provided, a take-off in researching exploits that can be a wider driver of the economy. The law allows the government of the Republic of Croatia to achieve its objectives, paves the way for new investment and maintenance of domestic production that has strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia in terms of ensuring energy independence, as well as preserving national interests. We therefore propose to the Republic of Croatia to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84832	Thank you, too. Replica, you have a Mr. Secretary of State and it's from Mr. Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84833	Thank you very much. Secretary, you said this was for the sake of national security, that it is the national interest of this law, but the fact is that the national interest is to declare it exclusively an economic belt, and according to the United Nations Convention and according to, and this is also being advised by the European Council, the Council of Europe. So I see no reason why we should not declare, first of all, the economic belt, and not as in 2015, that by drilling the Adriatic, they must be in the sauce of the association, i.e. protesting to prevent the ecological disaster of our Adriatic Sea, i.e. Bringing into a position to ruin our entire tourism. I believe that the exclusive economic belt that protects national interests and what MOST has given in the procedure is more than a year and a half, I don't see any reason why we don't do it and why we don't declare it, and certainly one of the reasons why MOST didn't enter the government is this exclusive economic belt, because a partner has found himself to push harmful projects for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84834	Time, Mr. Bull. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84835	I thank you for the question of the honourable representative, but this law deals with another problem, so I really have nothing to say to you on that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84836	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to take a word for the board? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, Mr. Stjepan Curaj is first in front of the HNS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84837	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, assistant. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, today's Final Proposal for a Law on hydrocarbon exploitation, we continue on to the energy story of this morning, of course the HNS Club will support this law in the second reading. We think, in addition to the regulation of research into hydrocarbon exploitation, the research of exploitation and geothermal water for energy purposes, the storage of natural gas and the permanent disposal of carbon dioxide is arranged, so that we get a broad picture through which the whole story is actually solved and is aligned with the Croatian legal order, with the European Parliament and Council directives in terms of terms and conditions and giving us the use of approval, search and exploration of hydrocarbon production. We know that in the past term that took part in the government and the HNS, that was the current topic, I would remind, that of these efforts, we did exactly 2016, almost 2 years ago, 5 exploitation fields, where we talked all the time and what we were saying earlier today, that our obligation is to provide citizens with safe and cheap energy. It puts Croatia on the map as energy as more independent countries, I don't know if there is an energy independent country when all the energy is taken, but surely we have to use our potential. Of course, both this earlier and this and now, in accordance with all the maximum achievements, environmental protection and everything that leads to it. In 2016, we signed 5 investigative spaces, only by the way, according to the 2014 regulation, for the total area to be allocated, a fee of 400 kn per km square, and for the part exploiting 4000 kn. This resulted from what the secretary of state said to both our incomes and our units of local self-government. At my place in Osijek, Baranja County, we have an eclectic example of a local benefit. When we talk first and foremost here in hydrocarbons, we need to know, everyone remembers the investigation drills I took to the Adriatic. It doesn't matter what 30th, 40th platforms and oil and gas are now on the Italian side 10km from ours, and the lines of demarcation in the far line from our land. Since then, we're talking about land here. The site in Benicanci, the municipality of Magadenovac, brings direct benefits for citizens and residents, as well as municipalities, in the form of concession fees. And this secondly, as for employment and everything, and in exploitation and research, we leave it on the side. So these municipalities have original incomes that everyone can envy. And of course there are minor kindergartens free of charge, that all students have scholarships, transportation is co-financed, anything that can be done to improve life in a Slavonian village, or villages, because there are more. It's the Magadenovac, the Benicans, the Lactacles, etc. So it's that direct benefit that our residents feel right away. The indirect one is much more important. By introducing and adopting this law, the possibility will be opened as we have heard, another 11 fields for exploitation which again bring direct and inflow funds into the budget and the possibility to discover the site primarily of gas and further exploit it. And become, what to do in that position, as much energy independence as possible. Because if this assessment, then 2016, was about half a billion kuna, I believe when we sign those contracts, total investment, as far as research is concerned, then these 11 will probably be on that track, probably more. Investments again, that's smart thinking, but I repeat, there's been a lot of talk. When this was in effect, when it came to exploiting the Adriatic. It was accused then of Vrdoljak's minister, that at the expense of renewable energy sources, which reduced because he reduced fees and what the state needed to subsidise, I don't know about a billion megawatts, to 400 million, and finally 700, and as a favored research. So today, two, three, five years of talking about how he's there, again, even though he's reduced especially to renewable energy sources. So, you're one guy who's obviously just being used for day-to-day political purposes. And the main thing is, with this law, we use every god-given potential this country has. And that's what we all swore and said, a beautiful country, a rich country of poor people. Why? Why? Well, here we have today, we had LNG law on Krk, and here's the problem. We find a problem everywhere, not a solution. And then we wonder why we're so weak in investment, why people bypass us, etc. I think this is going in the right direction, that this will enable us, not just an additional 11 fields, which are already parceled and in that mandate and everything, but pre-productions have been made and brought and that this, let's say, is really one final legal framework, that will allow it to go as fast as possible and that in 5 years, our people are actually working there, we have direct and cheap energy, gas, maybe oil somewhere, and then we can say all of this through the ingested and through our sites, we really are as independent as possible and as we have a secure supply for both citizens and our economy. And then we can say that we are thinking wisely about the future of this country because everything else comes down to the good wishes that we're all full of mouths and looking through cheap political pulsism, points, ways to do something and I think that's enough. Therefore, the HNS Club, of course, will once again repeat, support, this law allows, of course, what we say all the time, to achieve the objectives of this government, so I believe all governments, it was never at all controversial, we all know what we want, but to bring a stable supply of energy and achieve the greatest energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, it is a great task and it is not easy to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84838	Thank you. No replicas, yes, no replicas at the club. Mr. Mladen Madyer, the House of Representatives Club of the HSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84839	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Here's since the final proposal of the Law on Carbon Research and Exploitation is, I would refer to maybe two things. The first thing is the compensation for the exploitation of hydrocarbons and would not fully agree with his colleague Curaj when he mentioned that in Slavonia these municipalities have a fee but I am now speaking from the position in Podravina where we know that it was one of the largest gas sites, that it was not exactly what you mentioned because it remembered in 2009 when the fee was 3.10% and when the total fee went to local self-government units. We're not going to go to the entire compensation unit of local self-government, but it's going to regional self-government. Let me remind you of the chronology. This was the 2009th, 2010 cash compensation 3.10% for the first time started in 0.16% of the county and 0.18% of the state, the units of local self-government belong to 2.76, so it's shrinking. Next Regulation 25. 3. In 2011, the total fee goes to 5%. The new redistribution goes up to 2.5%, county 1%, state 1.5%. There's a fee cut again. The 2014 regulation, the current fee, increased to 10% where it should be immediately mentioned, yes, it should be mentioned that the reduction in gas prices by 50 lipes taken by HEP and three by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's three decisions is the most significant decision to reduce gas prices from 2.20 lipa to 1.70 lipa, and this is not about a 10% fee, but about a fee of 7.77% of which the amount of cash compensation is distributed in a way that 30% achieves municipalities, 20% of the county and 50% goes to the state budget. So for this regulation, 30% get municipalities and the 2009 regulation was 2.10%. It means that in this difference we must also mention to Electra that she generates income annually from 300 million kunas that are not accounted for by rent. I am sorry that the proposal of the HSS Club was not accepted to increase the mining rent from 10% to 12%, although we received an answer from the Committee on Economy and from the ruling that it was primarily due to arbitration and the Washington Agreement, which runs until 2024, that there was no increase in the mining rent until 2024. But it is interesting that rent when viewed in other EU countries, for example. in Austria, it is 17.6., in Hungary it is 25.3, in Germany 19.6. So someone who's really well signed this Washington deal is a 25.3 mining rental in Hungary and we've signed it at 10%. It means he directly damaged the primary units of local, regional self-government, but also the state budget. I also noted about the arbitration dispute, I think it's 23. The 12th refusal to request the annulment of the INA-Mol arbitration and the Swiss federal court ordered Croatia to pay 450 000 francs of court costs. So Croatia lost one arbitration dispute and according to certain signs, according to the media, it seems that the second dispute Croatia will lose and means these 450 000 Swiss francs, cca somewhere around 3 million kunas we have to pay the costs practically to the court and if we gave it to the units of local and regional self-government, they would certainly use these funds. It was also said on the board that this new bill on the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons would otherwise redistribute the mining rent and was convinced that units of local and regional self-government would get more. I, according to this law that I read, have not noticed anywhere that income increases, greater income to units of local and regional self-government, means that this was again a public deception, which was primarily a colleague of Horvat Darko, meaning future minister is and I said that he would advocate even that colleague I think that Dragica Roscic was discussing that there would be a second division which she said to this new law, which I am not saying, noting, and I am very sorry that it was proposed that the opposition we agreed that within these 10% would be a different distribution, means that this division is not 5% of the state, 3% of the local self-government units, and 2% of the regional self-government. I must remind you that the proceeds from the sea use go all the way to the state. And I think that's where we've been damaged and we've written on several occasions Koprivnica-križevska, Virovitica-podravska and Bjelovar-Bilogorska County have also asked for a conversation with the competent ministry and that the government's regulation is being amended. Here, I am sorry that this Law is not covered and will not fill the budgets of the units of local and regional self-government. In addition, the observations refer to the procedure for establishing an exploitation field, more specifically to the Article. 44. Proposal for a Law laying down the obligation to amend and supplement it with a spatial plan. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Second, the holder of the spatial plan shall initiate the process of harmonising the area for exploitation with the spatial plan no later than 8 days from the receipt of the applicant's request, in accordance with the regulation laying down the spatial arrangements and regardless of the other requirements. So these two items are questionable on a higher level. The spatial plans are practically reduced to a picture book in which, if necessary, following the issued solution for the exploitation field, the boundaries of the new field are drawn at speed. It does not take into account at all the restrictions laid down by spatial plans, as well as the specificities and requirements of counties, cities and municipalities in whose space the exploitation field is located and in whose jurisdiction the adoption of spatial plans is. Secondly, this Law imposes an obligation on the counties, cities and municipalities to start without speaking with changes and additions to the spatial plan at the moment when the investor makes a decision on the new exploitation field. In doing so, all other requirements should be ignored and a decision should be taken within 8 days to amend the spatial plan on its council or at its assembly. Despite the item stating that the investor will finance such an amendment, such a regulation is entirely questionable. Since these items are in contrast, first and foremost with the Law on Spatial Planning, and then with the Law on Regional Self-Government, we suggest that, before the adoption of this Act, they agree with the relevant ministries because they do, some laws are cut and we appeal to comply with certain ministries, and yet note that the compensation for hydrocarbons is not resolved by this law and that no units of local self-government will receive any increase in these final draft laws in their budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84840	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the word will be taken by a respected representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84841	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, many colleagues and colleagues. To be honest, when a man looks at this Law that we are now discussing and when he looks at the previous Law, with full respect for the people and colleagues and colleagues from Kvarner, but this Law is, when you look at all for the Republic of Croatia, far more important. It would be expected that there would be a lot of debate about this law, a lot of reluctance. Well, here's a fellow Hungarian who may have put a few issues to be discussed, and I can't help but recall a colleague from the HSS. He was the head of a municipality where INA was very active. We called it the Croatian Sheik, which used every opportunity to highlight the benefits of the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the area of its municipality. So it's something simple, this law that's alive and I think it's supposed to be debated here today by at least 20 MPs and, let's say, I'm surprised that no one from Istria has a colleague because at this point, the gas platform for gas exploitation is a few dozen miles from the coast of Istria, and it's very important. But I'm saying, I'm talking about how very often we politically impose some topics, and the topics that are very life-threatening, which are very important because later on I'm going to say why, they just go unnoticed. And perhaps practically one technical and one debate to highlight field problems, and I will try to highlight a few things on behalf of the HDZ Club. First of all, when we talk about this Law and this area, then the mind always hunts me and I have to remember the INA of Naftaplin, a Croatian energy giant who practically simply raised Croatia to a pedestal of good and quality research around the world, but what is very important, therefore, Croatia has not only exploited its natural resources, it has in the last years there from 2007 to 2010, and has certainly built infrastructure to be able to, when this research takes place and when the exploitation of natural resources begins, so that they can be transported to the final consumers. Let's not forget that practically there until 2008 in the winter months when it was, so to speak, the crowd in the transport of gas, Croatia couldn't use its gas from the northern Adriatic because, due to the lack of infrastructure, it went to Italy and Slovenia and came to Croatia, and then, when it was in Slovenia, the Slovenians normally used that transport for themselves, and Croatia could use it very little. The second thing, let's not forget that we didn't even have an interconnection with Hungary which was a prerequisite, but unfortunately this didn't happen to practically take the Kutin Petrochem to direct gas sources and thus be competitive. And not to say how many JANAFs he's done with building how they're colloquial they say cans, and these are the big tanks in Sisak that he can practically cook that oil and for those who are interested he's still transporting where they need it. So the construction of the Fažana-Karlovac pipeline and all the way to Split has created strong preconditions for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia. And what's very important is when tomorrow's gas pipeline is made which is spoken of by Azerbaijan via Albania, Greece and Montenegro, then this pipeline will be very much used because at this point it is now capacitated to be able to receive that whole gas. And this is the pipeline today, and we can say that at some point Croatia will position on Europe's energy map, and that should simply be said today when it comes to this law. Because if you can't get energy to the consumer, you haven't done anything in principle. And the other thing when we're talking about this law then we need to highlight some things, and that's a legal framework so that we can explore wealth in the Republic of Croatia, all those that are numbered. Very important, and if you look at the correspondence with the interested public, with the resolute ministers and with others, then you will see that the legislator and the rest of the interested parties were very interested in bringing this law into line with the existing laws. And here I point out two things in particular, which is to be harmonised and is in line with the Law on Mining and the Law on concessions because, at the end of the day, my colleague Hungarian was talking about rents, and I'm going to talk about it a little later, and what's very important is compliance with the spatial plan, or if there's any knowledge of who deals with grades and estimates that in a particular area there are research supplies, that the units of local self-government for this reason or that reason, and we saw today in the debate of what happens when a local self-government unit firmly resists its back legs and can't do anything but as I have arranged, so that the unit of local self-government changes the spatial plan and to enable research. And I think that's what the legislator predicted. What's very important is why I expected there to be more and more heated discussions here today, which is rent. It's logical if someone investigates in your area that this unit of local self-government is benefiting from it for a million and one reason. Some things have been denied by that local self-government unit compared to other local self-government units. And the other thing, if it doesn't draw something under you, no matter what's practically all 80 cm or how far below the surface of the ground is owned by the state, the logical thing is that these units of local self-government are benefiting from it. And you know well that the 10% rent regulation that entered in 2014 was for a while. and what's very important, which is moving primarily the price of crude oil barrels on the market. You know well that in some years there from 2000 to 2007, the eighth year practically many wells around Ivanić City and elsewhere the INAs were not profitable because the price of barrels of crude oil was so low that it was not worth drawing. But when the price of barrels of crude oil jumped to some level then it's a normal thing that some processes and drawbacks are paid and a logical thing to benefit from that unit of local self-government. But what is very important is to say that this law in a certain way creates a positive investment climate in the Republic of Croatia. With these laws, we send certain messages to potential foreign investors who want to go to Croatia, that Croatia is a country that accepts real investors, that Croatia is an open country, not that we are very often glad that we are closed to foreign investments etc. Well, at the end of the day, a colleague and colleagues need to say something loud and clear here, so INA didn't go there in the 1990s with ENI in research and drilling of the North Adriatic because people were in love with doing it with ENI but simply had no financial means for such a thing, someone who had financial resources practically did a joint job and the deal was that what ENI was going to invest in the money that INA would bring back to him in the gas, and so I think that story is already easy and finished except for that gas distribution today. Whether INA can invest at this time, I would be happy and ultimately it would mean strengthening our oil company in the future, but if someone who does not have money to invest, but above all that benefits both the Croatian state and the local community. Because if everyone doesn't have to use it vertically, then that whole story isn't good. But I think that's exactly the way the law is supposed to be. And I say when you look at a little communication with the interested public, I think this bill is well done, that I'm not repeating any technical problems here, that it opens up space to open up some new areas for research, that is. to call a tender, to open up space for local self-government units to benefit from it, so one law that is positive, which is good and which should take a step forward. And as for rent, we can always change it by law in accordance with interests, needs, and agreements. But I'm also saying that I'm going to end this debate in my opinion was expected to have a bile and hot debate today because it simply had to answer some questions. However, when you look at the previous law of some 15 articles, 200 amendments came out, this clearly speaks about the character of the debate, that unfortunately it is politics, and not the real need to point out possibly not the good things of this bill, and you will see this law that is very important for many areas of the Republic of Croatia, you will not have any amendments, as they did not have any participation, except the HSS Club and the HNS Club and, of course, the HDZ Club in this debate, therefore, Mr Secretary of State, the HDZ Club will support this bill. The Republic of Croatia has made the infrastructure to boost exploitation in its area, that all that is practically removed from the country, from the underworld to the Republic of Croatia that it will be able to exploit the final customers because if it hadn't been done, then you would have had a situation in winter to have your gas from the North Adriatic, but don't bring it to the manufacturer because you simply didn't have what you had and I repeat, interrectification to the Hungarian border was the same thing that was very important, but some events have unfortunately led to the fact that the Petrochemy story didn't develop as it should have been, but the situation today was as it is. But no matter what solution Petrochemy will be, the infrastructure condition that the key thing that is needed for the work of Petrochemy, which is gas, can practically reach Petrochemy without a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84842	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, an important state secretary at the Ministry of Protection, Environment and Energy, Mr Ivo Milatic, will say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. I thank you for the debate, and I would only briefly refer to the discussion of colleagues from the HSS who have discussed the issue again on the level of compensation. The Ministry fully understands the intensities of your law, which unfortunately we had to refuse because we could not accept it in such a way, we understand your intensity that the amount of funds that will be given to the local self-government is increasing and we are absolutely on that line and I will try to explain to you now. So we need to figure out two things, existing contracts that exist in the Republic of Croatia, which we inherited from the time INA was state-owned and when contracts were contracted by the so-called system. Royality tax, so they're fixed, they're limited so that by 2024 we used that 10% maximum, just so you know the EU average is 9.6%, so we're above the EU average, so at 10% and in that distribution you're not satisfied with 2% that get municipalities, 3% of the county, 5% of the state budget. So this law certainly goes in the direction of repairing that situation. In Article 51, paragraph 11 of the compensation and the distribution ratio of revenue is subsequently determined by the Government Regulation, on a proposal from the Ministry. This ministry will surely propose in its proposal a larger share of local self-government and we will try to keep that same share, but I must tell you that this law provides for something we haven't had so far, which is that with that fixed fee, we have so-called. product share agreement, so we have a production division when production is brought in, we talk about new exploitation fields and also in paragraph 3 of the same article we have a whole series of these fees of which local self-government will also have benefits. So when we speak in the spirit of this law, meaning in the new, in all new exploits and new potential and acquisitions, local self-government will definitely have much, much greater income, all so that this percentage remains who it is now, but here we are aware of the fact that in the creation of this regulation we will try to do everything to make sure that the percentage of the share of local self-government increase, because we understand your intensity and we are aware that in Croatia there is still a lot of income in the central state and that they should be slowly decentralisedd and in that part this ministry will support. As far as everything else is concerned, we think, once again, that this law will allow new research fields, new investments and new reserves that are important for the country's energy independence, because it is simply unacceptable that our reserves are practically extinct. And in that sense, I thank everyone and look forward to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84844	Thank you. We have two replicas for your exposure. First of all, he's a respected representative of Mader's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84845	Thank you, Vice President. However, I welcome what the secretary of state has said will be advocating the ministry to change this percentage and that there will be greater income to the units of local self-government, but I must correct you that we have received a table from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, where it says that in Austria it represents a mining rent of 17.6, in Hungary 25.3, in Germany 19.6. And we got that from the government of the Republic of Croatia, and you said it was smaller, so it's far more than in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84846	Here's a response from the esteemed secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84847	Thank you, Your Honor, Agent Mader. I said the EU average is 9.6. That means that what you're saying is true, you're clear, since you're taking on the ones that are the largest, and you know there's some Norway and some other countries that obviously have a lot less averages and that's at 9.6. So Croatia is above the European average and I ask that it be noted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84848	The next replica is the respected representative of Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84849	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I once again warn you that MOL is co-owner of the INA and in Hungary the rent is more than 25%, depending on the region, depending on the energy, and we have 10%. So when you propose to the Government a proposal to increase this mining rent, follow that example of Hungary. And secondly, why I volunteered for the replica, most of the research on the continent has long worked INA while it was still state-owned, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, and these studies have stalled for their reasons, which is not good and what is now proving to be bad for Slavonia, because the poorest region is also being emigrated. INA when she was investigating it and doing it she had... And I don't know if you put those potential wells into ownership shares, or if she mapped them and ran them as her co-ownership. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it would be most logical that the INA continue to do so, but we must buy a share of the MOL that the government has announced and ask if we will return INA to Croatian property.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84850	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84851	Thank you for the research INA is doing, clearly that all the existing wells it has, it's in line with the current law, and then logically, it's going to be consistent with this. I can only inform you, but when we talk about the INA, that part of the research, which it has undertaken by means of a 2016 contract, achieves very good results, although excellent ones, which we still have informally, so that here, I can't communicate them now. So, that's an additional argument, that this law has to go in this direction, and that means all possible research is more productive for local self-government, and what we inherited, I think to the solution just fighting for a larger percentage of local self-government, because we simply can't change that total percentage until 2024.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84852	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point, we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84853	Final proposal of the Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 258, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on the Research and Exploitation of Hydrocarbons, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 112 for, 8 abstentions and 4 votes against, passed the Law on hydrocarbon research and exploitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84854	We are now going to the following point: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 336 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia based on Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which relate to the first reading of the law, shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, Your Honor, State Secretary at the Department of Justice Mr. Juro Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84855	Honorable MPs and MPs. Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. The law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, in the text of the law, provides for the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between EU Member States, and the law in the domestic legal order is transposed by EU legislation in this legal area. The law adopted by the Croatian Parliament at its meeting on 9 July 2010 and entered into force on the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU on 1 July 2013. This law regulates the forms of judicial cooperation prescribed by EU legislation, the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedure, the guarantee of property or evidence, the European order for obtaining evidence, the recognition and enforcement of orders to withdraw property or items, the recognition and enforcement of decisions on fines, the recognition and enforcement of judgments which have been carried out in prison or the measures involving the withdrawal of freedom, recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions which have been handed down trial measures and alternative sanctions, the recognition and enforcement of decisions on precautionary measures and a European protection order. This draft law proposes 5th amendments and additions to the law, and the reason for the re-amending and supplementing is primarily the installation and implementation provisions of the EU Council Framework Decision, as of 13 June 2002 and the Council Framework Decision of 30 November 2009 on the prevention and resolution of disputes on enforcement of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. Thus far, decisions under consideration have been implemented, framework decisions have been implemented in the Croatian legislative framework, but in the law on the State's attorney's office, therefore, the Law on State's Attorney's Office is an organisational law governing the State's attorney's system and, according to its scope, it would not be necessary to contain procedural provisions on judicial cooperation within the EU. For these reasons, it has been concluded that the provisions on the implementation of framework decisions on joint investigative teams and on the prevention and resolution of disputes on the exercise of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings should be incorporated into the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters of EU Member States, which, in accordance with the scope and structure of the law, regulates matters of judicial cooperation. As planned, the Law on State Attorney's Office, which provides for the erasure of those implementing provisions, should enter into force on 1 September of this year, should also enter into force with the same date of entry into force of this Act amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation with the Member States of the European Union and in order not to create a legal gap in the application of European standards in this legal area, and for the purpose of more meaningful regulation and interpretation of the provisions on judicial cooperation. The opportunity has been used to improve existing provisions and technical and substantively in order to achieve greater clarity and consistency with other applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, provisions on a European arrest warrant in the part relating to the conduct of the documents received concerning a European arrest warrant and provisions on a European investigation warrant, which provide more specifically for the conduct of judicial authorities when informing the Member State, in which the surveillance entity is located and whose technical assistance is not required. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 September 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84856	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, the first SDP representative club, the respected representative Orsat Milenić, is gone, losing his right to debate. The next is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative, Marija Jelkovac, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84857	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, before the end of today, we have before us a proposal of this law, whose change is more technical, so here, and the Secretary of State will not explain much. So far, we have had 4 amendments to this law in order to comply with EU legislation, this is, in fact, proposed 5 amendments and additions to the law, which is why the installation of implementing provisions of the EU Council Framework Decision of 13 June 2002 on joint investigative teams and Council Framework Decision of 30 November 2009 on the prevention and resolution of disputes on enforcement of jurisdiction in criminal proceedings. Until now, these provisions of the framework decisions have been implemented in the Law on State Attorneyship, however, as this is an organisational law governing the system of state's attorneyship, it should not, in its scope, contain procedural provisions on judicial cooperation. The draft Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the provisions are, in fact, envisaged and deleted with effect from 1.9.2018. That is why it is also necessary to implement these provisions in this law by means of this proposal, so that there would be no legal gap after 1.9.2018. Also with these amendments and additions to the laws, the technical and content of certain existing provisions for clarity, the provisions on the European arrest warrant in the work relating to the conduct of the documents received, have been less regulated. This law lays down, in fact, minimum standards that strengthen mutual trust and facilitate judicial cooperation based on the principle of mutual recognition, which is very positive and leads to greater legal certainty and will therefore support this proposal for amending and supplementing the law, and I note that it does not require additional funding in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84858	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point. And we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84859	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, P.Z.E. No. 336, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union and secondly, all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 121 for and 1 against, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84860	The next item is - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 295. Proposing representative Miranda Mrsic is based on Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204 of the emergency procedure, the first and second readings shall be combined, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84861	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I see there are a lot of people interested in this bill. This is a bill that goes towards reducing the number of contracts in Croatia to a certain amount of time, allowing workers to arrange their working hours with the employer and to reconcile their professional and family life and to sign off on those of our fellow citizens who are leaving, so that they have full-time work experience and which happens to be restructured by the company and that they can get severances as well as their younger colleagues who will receive stimulating severance in the restructuring process, and they will only get the severance that is under the law, which is significantly smaller. In recent years, the Republic of Croatia has seen a significant increase in labour migration to other countries, especially young workers and workers at the most productive age. The most important causes when you ask young people why they left Croatia is the instability of working relationships, inadequate working conditions, as well as the organisation of working time that requires workers to work too long and makes it impossible for workers to organise their working hours more flexible, in order to better reconcile business and family life. On the world day of social justice that, with our 26 colleagues from SDP, GLAS and SNAGA, counterpart Marina Kasunić Peris and I, we have referred to the procedure of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, which aims to ensure a stable working relationship for workers and workers, to provide them with flexible working time to bring their private and business obligations into line and to ensure that workers who meet the conditions for retirement ensure equal status in the care of excess workers and at the end of their working relationship. I thank all those who have supported this good initiative that solves the problems that workers and workers in Croatia face daily. Working for a certain time in Croatia has become a rule, although according to the Labour Act should be an exception, and this claim is also witnessed by data from the Croatian Employment Service, according to which as many as 96% of unemployed workers are employed for a certain time, while in such a form of employment young workers are particularly exposed. According to the latest EUROSTAT results in Croatia, in the age group 15 to 24, 61% of the contract is for a certain time and we are back at the top of Europe. The average Europe for this age group, so for young people who are just entering the labour market, is somewhere between 30% and 40%. This is also referred to by data from the European Commission, the 2017 Working Document states that employment is particularly present among young people in 2015 in the age group of 15 to 29, 47% of contracts at a specified time, while in Europe there was 32.2%, as I noted last data show that the situation is worse. In that document, the European Commission points out that the share of such contracts among the total employees increased from 15.6% in the first quarter of 2013 to 24.2% in the third quarter of 2016 and that this trend is also recorded in all economic branches and can therefore easily be concluded that unstable labour relations have become a very problem in the labour market in Croatia and that it is necessary to adopt appropriate measures to prevent and detimise employers from hiring workers at a certain time and thus ensure working relationship stability for workers. The employer has neither the need nor the desire to invest in the additional education of workers who are only employed by him temporarily and if Croatia wants to invest in our workers and their skills, we must primarily provide them with a stable working relationship. "Key advantage" as to why employers employ for a certain period of time when you ask them, concerns the fact that the employer is not obliged to pay the employee’s severance fee for a specified period of time if the employment relationship has ceased during that period. Although under the provisions of the Labour Act, there is the possibility of the termination of a work contract concluded at a certain time by the termination of such contract, but only if such possibility is provided for by this contract, the fact is that contracts concluded for a certain period of time generally cease and, as a rule, the deadlines that have been concluded are not mandatory for employers to pay compensation to those workers. The fact of a very slow judiciary which is not yet able to provide legal protection for workers within a reasonable period of time is additionally favourable to the fact that it is not yet able to provide legal protection for workers within a reasonable period of time, and therefore workers do not resort to judicial protection of their rights. According to one analysis that has been done, on average in the first-degree procedure, the process is when we talk about labour law, it takes 2 years, which is extremely long for workers and employers, and obviously is one of the reasons why we have such a situation regarding the contract at a certain time because a lot of them have been concluded in an illegal manner but because of the litigation of the judiciary does not dare and do not want to enter a legal battle for their status. In order to prevent the use of atypical forms of work, many EU Member States such as the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Poland and Hungary have implemented in the past few years a reform of labour legislation aimed at reducing the number of contracts to a certain time and limiting the number and possibility of using flexible forms of employment, in particular for a specific period of time. Therefore, as one of the measures which should prevent employers from concluding a work contract for a certain period of time in circumstances where there is no need for such a form of employment, it proposes to prescribe the right of the worker who has concluded the contract for a specified time to pay him compensation if the employment relationship is completed by the end of the contract for a specified period of time. In this way, employers will have to pay the severance fee to the worker for a certain period of time if they enter into a contract. I would not like it to be considered as a pension of employers or a cost to employers, but it is one system of deterring employers from making a contract for a certain time because they can always conclude a contract for an indefinite period of time and there will be no additional cost. Along with this law, unfortunately the parliamentary majority rejected this law where the proposed Law on Contribution where we also said as a deterrent measure to the employer if the worker gives the contract for a specified time, pays a double contribution to employment. All this would lead to the number of contracts for a certain time in Croatia, that Croatia should not be in one of the first places by the number of contracts at a certain time and by flexible forms of bargaining unfortunately, Croatia in this area if this law is rejected and I am sure that HDZ will do so because the government did not support this law, which I am extremely sorry. As one of the problems that workers point out as a problem is the possibility of a flexible working-time organisation that will enable workers on their working-time schedule and thus better align their business obligations with private ones. This is also one of the measures of demographic policy that the government has only declared to regret and that is what I am sorry that the government did not recognise that this measure will have a good effect on family life, on the organisation of family life, and on organisation and work, and that it will allow women who carry the most burden of the family to be able to reconcile their professional and family life. One of the institutes that directly influences how workers' health and so on, and the better coordination of professional and family life is an organisation of working time, is something that should be promoted more in Croatia, we have examples from practices where in certain companies this flexible working time has been introduced, it has led to productivity being higher and workers are more satisfied because they can organize their working time in the way they are comfortable without the work process suffering from it and that the work process is going on as it should be. The harmonisation of private and business life is one of the priorities of the European Union, which is given special attention within the framework of the European pillar of social rights, and therefore the EU believes that employees of parents and guardians should be encouraged to remain on the labour market, not as is happening to us to remove them from the labour market in a way that enables Member States to adapt their work schedules to personal needs and desires. According to Eurofond, workers in Croatia are on average working 41.5 hours a week, which is the longest working time compared to other EU countries. It just clearly underlines that it would be good to allow working hours to be arranged in a different way. Too long working hours and insufficient flexible organisation of working hours, which would be a function of ensuring flexible working hours from the perspective of workers, certainly affect the inability to trust business and family life, and this is being warned by the Advocate for Gender Equality and the Advocate General. The law provides for the introduction of an employer’s obligation not only to consider the request of workers to work part-time, but also to respond to the worker’s request, and in the event of the refusal of such a worker’s request to explain his reply in writing. The law provides for the introduction of a flexible schedule of working hours consisting of a basic and variable part of a working time schedule whose duration would be prescribed by the schedule of working hours. During the basic working time period, the worker shall not be able to choose the start and end of that part of the schedule and shall be obliged to carry out his duties at the specified time of the basic schedule of working hours. Within the given variable of a part of flexible working time, the worker self-initiatively chooses the time, start and end of work, and the length of the day. However, in such a schedule of working hours, the worker shall not work for more than 12 hours over a 24-hour period, and the average weekly fund of hours must correspond to the worker full or part-time. The experience of individual employers in Croatia so far confirms that this is possible and that this is possible and that the flexible organisation of working time, as I said earlier, provides workers with more productivity, motivation and satisfaction, as well as the overall health of workers, and also promotes a positive corporate culture. And the third thing that we want to solve with this Law is the question of our fellow citizens who have done their full-time work, and they are in a situation where the company is restructured, or the provision of extra workers. Under the current law, workers who meet the conditions for retirement, when the company is restructured, leave with severances required under the Labour Act. While their younger colleagues, well be, well have a job internship for a few months and less than full-time will then receive stimulating severance because they do not meet the conditions for retirement. We therefore believe that it is necessary to equate these two groups of workers in the event of a notice, when the company is restructured and to enable those workers who have the conditions for retirement and who have the right to retire, instead of the severances guaranteed by the Labour Act to receive the same stimulative severance as their younger colleagues. Such arrangements will result in the fact that these workers can stop working under the same conditions as all other workers regardless of the age of life and the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement. By this Law, colleague Marina Kasunić-Peris, who worked actively on these laws, and I, above all, want to say that the policy we advocate in working relationships is ensuring stable working relations and thus retaining workers in Croatia. Another important message of this Law is for young workers to support the introduction into the Republic of Croatia of a more flexible organisation of working time, which will primarily help young workers, young families, and all workers who care for their older family members to comply with their business and private obligations. Workers leave the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia imports foreign labour, and therefore we believe that the time has come to open the labour law issue and that certain provisions of the Labour Act are seriously reviewed. The amendments to the Labour Act that we are proposing today are primarily short-term measures that we can take right now because we no longer have time to wait for the government and the ministry that is constantly justified in the media that the change will happen then, that it will move into some working groups, but there are no results. We think it should work now. And while statistics are on all sides that Croatia is the worst in the EU in terms of a fixed-term contract, the explanation that we received from the government, in which the government rejects this bill, shows that the government lives in some parallel universe that is miles away from the daily workmen and their reality. According to the government, the government's argument is that working for a certain time for the government is not a problem that needs to be addressed even though the European Commission claims in its report that the Republic of Croatia with a 22% stake is far above the EU average. In addition, while all experts agree that flexible working time is a prerequisite for democratic renewal, the Government proposed measures in the laws in its opinion characterizes such measures as administrative costs. It is embarrassing that the government rejects a law aimed at penalizing work for a certain period of time and allowing workers a better balance between private and business life. This government has told all young people and workers that administrative costs are for the government, not human potential. The government obviously has no solution to work for a certain time, Minister Pavić has no solutions either for the pension system or for labour relations in Croatia, and this will be what this government will characterise as a government that is incompetent, indecisive, and we see what happens to messages on social networks because it is obvious that it is more important at this time to save the image and the work of the prime minister than to work on the well-being of Croatian citizens. Looking at the number of laws in this House, most of the laws come from the opposition benches until the important laws come from the government, and these are the laws of reform, structural laws, they promise us but very soon there will come a pre-election time so that this government has obviously lost time when it could do something, and even when it is being consulted and proposed that it will allow citizens in Croatia to get better and to live better then the government refuses it. The charge will come very soon, the citizens will know very quickly what and how this government has done and will know that there is a lot of what the government is doing when we talk about working relationships rather than the pension system and that in Croatia we do not have the opportunity for young people to stay, for young people to start a family, that in Croatia we do not allow young people to be treated in the way they are treated in EU countries, so they go to Ireland, so they go to Germany. You have the last piece of information that's 100,000 less HZZO insurance if that's not your alarm, then I don't know what your alarm is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84862	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84863	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Mrsic. Of course, the position of workers and their rights to each of us are important to us, but we can't solve some deviation in this way. In fact, the legal nature of a work contract for a certain period of time is conditioned by the reasons for which such contract is concluded, that is, that is, the reason for a particular nature, means that a particular business is of a certain duration, so a working contract is concluded on a specific or, for example, the replacement of a particular official who is on sick leave or the like. So we can't identify it with a work contract indefinitely and I think it's very well settled in our Labour Act, the reasons are very clear, everything is very clear. The fact that there are certain deviations in society does not mean that we can now level the contract for a certain period of time with an indefinite working contract. And also the payment of the severance payment to arrange for contracts to work at a certain time would be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84864	Thank you very much. The answer of the respected representative Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84865	So if you read the bill well, then the law makes it very clear that the reason to pay off the severance fee to the worker who receives the contract for a certain period of time does not apply to contracts for a specific period of time to replace workers on sick leave, maternity leave or to contracts for seasonal employment. And on the other hand, how are you going to explain to me the fact that there are cases that the cashier in one store had 36 contracts for three years of work, contracts for a month, so that's something we want to stop by this law. We also want to prevent that working contract from making use of workers if they know that they will run out of contracts for a certain period of time, not being paid overtime, working more. It's all the things that we do with this law because it's known that it's not a big corporate problem but it's a problem in small employers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84866	Thank you very much. Would the government official like to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour and Pension System Majda Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84867	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law submitted by Prof. Dr.sc to the President of the Croatian Parliament. Miranda Mrsić, 16 February 2018. As regards the written response mentioned here, it should only be noted that this represents an additional administrative discharge and on the other hand would not contribute to any protection of the interests of workers. As far as flexible working hours are concerned, I stress that, based on the current employers, they often make it possible for workers to do so. Slid working hours, and in practice there are numerous cases of employers who, for objective reasons and nature of work, would not even be able to meet such a requirement. I'll only mention one example, and these are schools that are related to a predetermined schedule of hours. As regards how the work contract ends, it is proposed to delete the provision by which the working relationship ends at the end of 65 years of life and at least 15 years of employment unless the employer and the worker agree otherwise. So this part needs to be underlined again, unless they agree otherwise. Therefore, the current provision of the law allows for the agreement between the employer and the worker on the continuation of this working relationship and after the worker is 65 years of age and 15 years of employment, the provisions of the Labour Act do not prescribe the upper age limit for the employment of older workers. And that is why we consider a valid solution legally to those that are better. With respect to the severance, in the applicable law of workers' right to the severance of workers working for a certain period of time, it is only possible to achieve this contract if that contract is terminated before the specified time, and this proposal would, in fact, have the right of all contract workers to do so. Here, however, should be kept in mind the legal nature of the shipping institute. It is, in fact, always linked to the cancellation of the employment contract as a substitute or to the assistance of workers who have found themselves in an unpredictable life situation, rather than to the expiry of the employment contract that has been agreed by the two parties in agreement on a period of time that has been clearly established and known to them since the beginning. As regards contracts for a certain time, the proposer is talking about a large and growing number of contracts for a certain time, but if we look at the structure of the contract, a completely different picture is being taken. According to the DG Employment's report on pre-work in the EU, it is evident that at the very top of the EU Member State's scale, according to the share of the contract on indefinite and full-time and that percentage is around 70%, and this is confirmed by the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute data, according to which we have 75% of the contract on indefinite and 25% of the contract on a certain basis. In this regard, the position of young people should also be mentioned. It should therefore be noted that there are two fiscal reliefs in terms of the release of payment of contributions on the basis. The first is the exemption from the payment of contributions based on up to a year for newly employed persons who do not have a registered job in insurance, and the second is the release from payment of contributions based on up to 5 years for young persons who have concluded an indefinite employment contract. Young people up to 30 years of age who worked on a specific contract in 2015 and then entered into an undefined contract with the employer were 11 900 years old and that number grew from year to year, in 2016 of such young people who changed from contract to fixed contract, there were already 22 000, in 2017 33,000, and in the first four months of 2018 there were 41 600 young people who had crossed and contracted for a certain period of time. This was also contributed by measures of an active employment policy of 2.6 billion kuna, which is never again in the Republic of Croatia. So, in the wake of all this, I repeat once again that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to accept this draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act with the final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84868	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84869	Dear Secretary of State, what, what solutions do you have? What's your solution? You have the latest data, 62% of contracts at a certain time of all contracts that were concluded for young people from 15 to 24, but even more frantic 11% of all contracts made for our older citizens from 55 years of age are contracts for a certain time. How can you live who are over 55 years old, you have a contract for a month? So give the secretary of state one more time answer what do you think you're gonna do? You feel that this is wrong, that this is not good and that it is wrong, what do you think to do, the European Commission warns, you are growing the number of contracts for a certain time, what are you going to do? Don't just tell me he's going to get rid of this new labour law that knows when you're going to bring But what are you going to do? [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Say it specifically, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84870	Thank you. The answer to a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84871	Dear Mr. Mrs. Gristle, the solution in any case is not what you're proposing, and that's a flat-rate and hasty solution. That's not the answer anyway. The solution is one that is very, very well analysed and very well-founded and serious and responsible approach, it is a solution. I stress that the general approach to work in the Republic of Croatia is extremely economical and should be complemented and changed only after a comprehensive analysis of the debate, cooperation, or dialogue with the social partners, and not at all as casual and hasty as your proposal, and we know ourselves that because of this proposal everything has happened, I will not repeat it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84872	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84873	Mr. Vice President, since I've received privileged information that we're going to break up now with the debate, I'm using this business institute to say that the SDP Representatives' Club will support this legislative proposal, despite what the Secretary of State said, because I said it would assume that it will say so, and in that sense here so much of me, that you can erase me from this debate on behalf of the club tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84874	Thank you very much. Now I'd like to open up the debate. The first came from a respected representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84875	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the honorable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Labour Act with the final bill proposed by our colleague Miranda Mrsic, former Minister of Labour and Pension System, so we do not need to doubt his knowledge and competences of this system. Now we're obviously discussing what we're doing, for nothing, because the government has rejected this bill, but it doesn't have to distract us from saying what we think about this whole situation. The percentage situation when we look at them realistically, when we look at the total number of employees, the number of contracts at a certain time is not so catastrophic, but it is a disastrous situation which is 350-370 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are citizens of the second row, who in continuity work under contracts for a certain time, which work for over 20 years with a contract of work for a certain time, cannot plan their family. A contract for a certain time, at the same time, means a lower salary, at the same time, means a lower salary, you can't make a sound, because I'm going to cancel your contract. Check it out, you'll see it's a little less pay. So it's a phenomenon that we have to fight. This is one of the initiatives, legitimate, no problem at all, the opposition is there to provoke, but I would like to see in front of the ministry something and a comprehensive analysis, because the ministry certainly has a more favourable situation for the analysis of the whole situation and to present here a truly factual state of affairs of us individual representatives. We also have eyes and see what's happening around us. If you haven't noticed and you were supposed to be in telecommunications companies, people work through student service. If you haven't noticed, and lately, in the malls, you should have written up, name and last name, and below, a student writes. What kind of work is that? We got out of a work contract for a while, we're working through a student service. What do we expect with our health contributions? What do we expect with contributions to retirement, from work, which is for a certain time, with minimum wages, because it is its characteristic. Or from work, which every day is more extensive in Croatian society through student service. I think we testify and keep silent about being in Croatia, regardless of being a poor country, living by standard better than we deserve. To create one layer of very rich people, who earn profits on unpaid work. That's what the unions are responsible for, and they keep quiet about it. Insufficient to fight for collective agreements, for defining, different definitions of severance. Because we're not the smartest people in the world, it's not our best law in the world. Our colleagues in Italy fought hard in another system to reach certain levels of labour rights. And there's a provision in their law that no employment contract can be cancelled without an explanation, not one. Neither indefinitely, nor on a specific, nor on any kind of flexible work, can be cancelled without a reasonable explanation. This is the basis for seeking legal protection, to prove whether the contract stopped because of the termination of the job, or because of the inadequate characteristics of the worker, or if someone had looked at someone wrongly. And also in ours, let's go, across the sea to the neighbouring republic, because we're not bordering them, but across the sea, is the rule that you get severance, whether you get fired or you quit. So there's a fund, so-called. The fund... the end of the relationship, in which a certain amount is guaranteed that is not so great, that people, until they find a new job to cope with. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I think it's a far more humane approach than we have here today. In the experiences of others, I had this privilege, that one major part of life, by doing trade union work, had an open door to Europe and I know both systems and France and England and Germany and Italy and Austria, I think there are many more humane solutions that Croatian workers would deserve, not that we have this number of terrible numbers, of 350-370 thousand young people first, but also what counterpart Miranda and older workers who work for a certain time. They are definitely citizens of the second row, they need their fathers or even grandfathers as garnets to get a loan in the bank, then you can imagine what their chances are to plan a family, to work on what is desirable in the Republic of Croatia, to work on the demographic restoration of the country. I will not be longer, just say welcome every initiative in this Croatian Parliament, to open our eyes and look around us, what the world of work in the Republic is like today. He's different from 25 or 27 years ago when there was a job or 30 years of work when it was for everyone. When all the work contracts were for a certain time. So, it's a completely different world, and I don't think we're active enough to recognize the dangers that exist in the world of work today, and the dangers are directly reflected in our most important social systems, health systems and pension systems, because if there's no work, how it's a working anthem, trouble is government, but not just for the workers, but for the powerless and the sick and for the pensioners. And quality work is just the one with a good salary, because only a good salary works and a good pension, a small salary won't give a high pension, not from the first pillar, not from two pillars, not from three pillars, no way. No way. Therefore, I pray to my own, no matter what the result is known here, regardless of what I personally and GLAS Club and HSU will support this law, the result is known but I warmly ask you all to open your eyes together and to see that this is not the world of once, that it is a world of risk, especially unfavourable for our young people, for our young citizens, and that we all concentrate together and find solutions, if this is not a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84876	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić will now speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, honoring State Secretary with an associate, a respected proposing, co-workers and colleagues. Well, we've heard a lot about these little changes and additions proposed by our colleague Miranda Mrsic. The State Secretary explained in detail the reasons why this proposal could not be accepted. I am sure that the promoter had the best intentions, as he himself explained, that as few workers as possible work for a certain time and I can even agree with some sentences that Mr. Hrelja said when he spoke on behalf of the club, but I think that the Labour Law should be modernised and probably the time has come to think about a new law, I would say even a new law, and I see that the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System is already doing everything to see what it takes to bring about the new Labour Act or its amendments and additions. So as far as severance is concerned, here's what I'm going to mention is severance, whether or not I'm not going to say normal, but if a worker who knew, who signed a contract of work for a certain time and knew when he stood out, whether or not he should get the severance money, are all the things that need to be discussed with the social partners. Now if, under the current law, this contract of work is cancelled for a certain period of time by the worker before the expiry of the contract, then he has the right to severance. All other variants should indeed be agreed in detail with the social partners and I am sure that the ministry will do so and indeed, as counterpart Hrelja said, deliver a quality proposal to us here. So as far as we're talking about the termination of a labour contract that is proposed to be deleted, as the proposer suggested, so when a worker turns 65 years of life and a minimum of 15 years of retirement, as the State Secretary herself said, there is always the possibility that the worker and employer agree. So there is a possibility and I really know a few people who, with their employers, took advantage of that possibility. If employers have a need and a worker is willing to work, there is a possibility of doing so. Furthermore, the flexible working time proposed by this law is equally necessary, I am sure it is necessary, but we already have the possibility today that the worker, that the employer determines his workers a slippery working time, so everything else should be negotiated equally, given the social partners, since not all employers are really able to organise flexible working hours. I have no doubt, as I said, that these amendments and additions are proposed in the best interest, but we at the Croatian Democratic Community club believe that one complete solution of the Labour Act is needed and, as I said, I have the knowledge that the ministry is already making every effort to see what is necessary and when it is changed, so the HDZ Club will not support these amendments and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84878	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will speak the esteemed representative of Bozica Makar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84879	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the most respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In principle, as regards this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, we think that the proposal is given in good faith with a lot of good intentions and there are a lot of things that we need to think about and that we agree with, there is a need to enable the flexibility of working time, there is also a certain security for workers, and all of this stands. At this point, however, we have solutions that are agreed between the social partners, and as we know in the establishment of a working relationship, a two-sided contractual relationship is signed. I know that not all workers are in an equal position, and I also know that there are areas where there really are extra labour forces, but there are also areas where there is a great lack of labour. So the situation is different. As regards the concrete proposal of this law by Mrsic, a respected colleague of ours, it is proposed to introduce the employer's obligation to explain in writing to the worker, unless he accepts his request for a change of working time, the introduction of the possibility of a working time schedule in a way that consists of a basic and variable work. In the basic part, the worker would be obliged to carry out tasks within the prescribed time period, while in the variable part he could choose the start and end of working time on his own. As I have already said, it is intentional and it is good to run it, however there is a part of the activity, part of the company, part of the profession where it is possible and employers will definitely negotiate, as it has already been said, there is a sliding working time, meaning that employers are going to meet, but objectively it is impossible to force the employer to now give written explanations to the worker, even though it is already in the conclusion of a contract on working with him on terms, so we consider it not acceptable. I've already said work for a certain time. There we heard the data and we really checked the stand, how much especially with young contracts from work for a certain time passed into work indefinitely. And there's these stimulations, this non-payment of salary contributions made a lot of money because it's a significant reduction in the cost of employers because we all need to be aware of what we're stimulating the employer, he'll be, he'll get more and he'll be able to give more workers because that's the only way because every one of our employers is working to make a living, not only do we now prescribe to him what he has to give everything to the worker, but he needs to give the worker to keep a quality worker, to get him to stay with him, although I've already mentioned that we have different situations. Currently, according to the Croatian Employment Service, we have 150 000 unemployed persons. It is precisely this statistic that requires a detailed analysis of the working inactive population and the need to include them in the labour market through requalifications, courses, etc., because we know that a part of them is unemployable and that it is simply waiting for conditions for retirement and that they will not be able to, but certainly a large majority of these people, with retraining they will be able to get a job. In this way, we will also create competition among these employees and we will not allow so much imports of labour from third countries that are destroying the labour price of our workers and will certainly contribute to the development of our economy. This is a significant problem, this lack of qualified staff needed by the market, and that is where the HNS stands through educational reform for education tailored to labour market needs. So, first of all, we need to address the imbalance between the needs of the market and the qualifications offered, i.e. the workforce we currently have. Once again, this would be ideal if we were to solve it now, because we all want the workers to be satisfied, we all want to stay here and work, we are all in favour of not going out to work, but to be in Croatia, stay and there is also a connection with the most intelligent policy and everything else. However, it is, again, a contractual relationship, that we cannot pass the law for one side only. These are social partners who need to negotiate their terms. I note, the intentions are good, but this requires really one whole debate, not so selectively that we are now passing this law, although I say there are a lot of good intentions to protect the workers mentioned here. I don't know if there's any of us here who would be against the greater protection of workers, certainly not. We are certainly all in favour of making it better for the workers, for it to be better for all of us, but not by passing the law this way, but by, once again, by agreeing between the social partners and one complete and comprehensive solution. And that's why we at the HNS Club won't support this law, even though I'm saying in principle, against these good things that are mentioned here we are, and we're in favour, but for one whole solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84880	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. A colleague named Saja Djujic called. He's gone. He's losing his right to speak. The next is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84881	I said I'd be brief and I'll be brief, but I'm asking everyone here in this room. All of you, please, are you aware that there are companies that have been operating for 4, 5 years with 50 employees and have 5 employees indefinitely? [[Intruder Reiner: All of us 8.]] So don't tell me it's temporary and occasional business. So we're working against ourselves and against society and against health care and pensions and everything because we tolerate it. So we're working, we're wrong about the inaction. We see or we don't want to see what exists and where the situation goes. I'm telling you again, the working relationship at a certain time is about lower wages, we all lose, and as a society, and as a person, and who gains? That employer who's building profits on unpaid work. I beg you, there are such, not all, honor the exceptions, all honors to the DM, not advertising it, nothing to do with them, pay it neatly, with solid wages, all your employees. Why can't others do the same? I'm just asking the same question and finishing my discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84882	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, he will speak, honourable representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84883	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here, for the end, once again you would point out some things, although we are not here, I think it is a shame, which, if nothing else, we have exchanged opinions on this problem which is growing and greater in Croatia. According to the latest data, at the age of 15-24, 61% of the contract is for a certain time. At the age of 25-54 is 22%, and what fracked me was over 55%, more than 11%, 5 years ago. So come on, think about it, how someone who is 55 and works for a certain time, how he can even have job security, is simply something that we should absolutely fight in this House. And when we talk about this mantra, this law that social partners should agree on, so trade unions and employers. Well, for this law, unions have given unreserved support. And they say, that's what we represent. And I believe that even employers, now that this is the situation in Croatia, when we have open jobs, and we don't have the workforce, would be very much this solution, because this solution is going to, that employers are simply forced to think about what kind of society we expect in Croatia and to make it very clear that they have a choice. I object that this is an employer's punishment. They have a choice, a contract for a certain time, which will cost more or an indefinite contract, which will have no additional cost. And it's okay, it's a contract between two workers and an employer, but the frameworks of that contract impose the law. Well, it's not for you to expect the employer, if the law doesn't tell him to give the severance fee to the worker for a certain time, he won't remember to put it in his own labor contract. Therefore, there is no claim that it is just a contract between workers and employers and that the state has nothing to interfere with. The state should certainly interfere with those relations that we want to create on the labour market. And what should be said very clearly, that in a speech on work for a certain time, is the transfer of the risk of employers' business to workers. And that's it. And that's what employers say themselves. Well, that may have been at the time, when there was a crisis, but now it's not a crisis. And therefore, the ministry's excuse, that this will be resolved comprehensively, after a comprehensive analysis, so we don't need an analysis, so we see what the labour market in Croatia looks like, that you have more and more contracts for a certain time, that you lack labour force, that Minister Pavić is walking around Ukraine or I don't know, looking for labour which is completely wrong. Instead of improving labour relations in Croatia, paying workers in Croatia more, and then those who went to Ireland and Germany will return if they have more salaries than they are, so it is not easy to go to a foreign country. And that is, you don't need a comprehensive analysis and you can see very clearly, what and how to do. And the Labour Act is a law that concerns everyone, it's the law that causes the most tension and conversation, but I think at this point it's a time when employers and trade unions can talk and sit at the table and support this law. Notingly, the unions have already supported him, employers have said they will consider it. But let's face it, in this way, that contracts become standard and not exception, we will drive even more young people out of Croatia. And another thing the government also wouldn't accept, that flexible working time. And the secretary of state, he doesn't know where you got the example of school. Well, it's clear that you can't have flexible hours at school, but at school, make the schedule of working hours the way it is, the way it suits you and how you can make arrangements with your colleagues. But, flexible working time, is something that in some companies led to the fact that the working atmosphere is much better and efficiency is much better, because workers are more satisfied, mothers can be more with working children. And not that it happens, that the mother works in the morning, and the child is at school this afternoon, doesn't see the child until evening, and with flexible working hours, she could do it. And that's the intensity of this law, and I absolutely don't admit what the secretary of state is saying, we're going to solve it with some comprehensive thinking and everything. Well, that's the healthy peasant thing, it's very clear, let's get to the deal for a while. If we could settle this legally, we could handle it through the labour inspectorate, through the judiciary, and we could handle it. But obviously it's not going, and the only way to get rid of this, and it's not the invention of my colleague Marine and me, it's what the countries around us have done and reduced. You're not going to root it out, but it's going to cut the number of contracts to a certain time, and that's this message, so get a move on and don't read the answers from the paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84884	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. I'll see you again tomorrow at 9.30. The first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on protection of labour, first reading, P.Z. No. 338. Have a nice evening. Session interrupted at 1900 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-05-24-0.u84885	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 295, Proposer is Agent Miranda Mrsic, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act which is not accepted by the Government or by parliamentary working bodies, please vote. I find that the law was not passed because it did not receive the required number of votes, 46 were for and 77 was against it. Yeah, but I think we should all check the metals then, who knows what the results would be in the end. So now I have to give a 10-minute break to the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Curaj, come in.
