ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101849	Thank you, time. Mr. Marko Vučetić on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101850	Dear colleagues and colleagues, from the debates we can certainly conclude that we are in a post-modern world. The postmodern world is a world where there is no one unique truth but there are many truths and everything is dispersed, everything is in a fragment. In order to explain how the fragment works and how we live in the story we carry and which we create in a fragment, I will try to adapt and tell two stories from the level of some kind of politics. Let's imagine the first story, imagine a country and call it the Republic of Croatia. It is a state in which the Constitution, in which the laws apply, is a state in which the laws and the Constitution are established in institutions, institutions serve as citizens, they protect their freedoms and protect their dignity because politics in the story of this fragment or in this narrative is the real power that ensures just the freedom and dignity of citizens and the functioning of the right. In this story, in this Republic there are institutions, there are functions that the administrations are all subordinated to this starting point. We also have a president of the Republic of Croatia who cares for the regular, orderly functioning of the state government. On the other hand, we have another story and let's imagine now a state, which we can call a pair of Croatians. It's a country where the president is not the one who cares and keeps the state order. This is not a state where there are institutions, but there are many affairs. These affairs, we can title here with one code name. Let's imagine calling these affairs a SMS affair. This affair is an affair that constructs innocence and constructs guilt. There is no institution, there is no law and there is no Constitution that will take care of real truth, real rights and real citizens. But there is a constructed reality, which corresponds to a constructed guilt and which corresponds to a constructed innocence. There are no citizens like those who are visible, but there is only a trace of the affair. If we now introduce a new syntagma, which is the syntagma of criminal proof of innocence, it is quite clear that in that first imaginary country, the state we call the Republic of Croatia, that the precedent of innocence refers exclusively to the citizens. The President-in-Office of Independence cannot, for example, refer to a president who cares and maintains the regular functioning of the state government, because if the president is in the context of this, it is necessary to activate the precedent of innocence, then it is clear that the affairs have also been affected by this important segment of what should safeguard the existence of this imagined world. So, the post modern world is a world of stories. Every story has a certain age, but every story has its own certain life, the life of the first world already told by the Republic of Croatia, is the life in which there is the safety of citizens, in which there is the reality of political power, in which there is protection. The insecurity of the second world, the imagined pair of Croatians, is the security in which there is no sign of an affair, but there is the legality of an affair and of an affair there is that horizon that peels the world of this story and which chokes the nausea of the development of civil society. But as I said at first, citizens have the ability to create their own stories, every 4 years they can choose the story that they will live but regardless of the chosen story, they can choose a fragment of their own life from which they will realize that the precedent of innocence applies to everyone except those who guarantee the orderly functioning of the state government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101851	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101852	Representative Tomislav Zhagar also reported for a position on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101853	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. At this address I was encouraged by a news story that appeared in the media the last days which was actually when I first saw her very encouraging, I was glad, the news read: “The great giant in the production of the car Hyundai not only cars, but it will open its own plant in Varazdin” and not only in the production of auto parts but in the production of complete cars. Very good news, I was happy. Yesterday, Minister Horvat made a statement to the public that the news is actually not known how it got into the media, the truth that some, according to his, some letters of intent were sent to him, he listed 5 gigants in the automotive industry and did not deny or confirm that contracts were being conducted with Hyundai. But why am I saying that? I'd like to point that out from another aspect. Namely, I come from Virovitica-Podravska County, if we take the centre, but not the administrative center of Virovitica, but the geometric center of my county then to the nearest highway we have 100 kilometers. In an amendment that MPs, the ruling representatives handed over to the government, it accepted the truth something is speeding up the construction of so-called. Subravan ipsilon, i.e. fast roads from Vrbovac II. According to Bjelovar and further towards Virovitica, the part to Ferkashevac was made. What I want to tell you to the Croatian public, the speed to which that road is built will not be enough. Namely, the pace that the population leaves the Virovitica-Podravska County is far higher than the pace that the road will be built. And that is why it is important to warn the Government of the Republic of Croatia that for this county, of course, I believe that many other counties have a problem doing everything to do. We in three cities, only three cities in three cities in our county, Virovitica, Slatini and Orahovici invested considerable resources to create industrial zones. And it occurred to me who will come to Slatina to invest if she has a chance in Varazdin, not diminishing the value that she should invest in Varazdin, and any such news is welcome. For the illustration, I will tell you this, in 2017 from Slatina moved abroad 260 citizens, 260, from Virovitica 265 and it speaks little of how the east of the county, how we go east more and more people are moving because Slatina by the number of inhabitants is almost twice as small as Virovitica. And do you know how many residents have gone? 70 of them, more than 10% of the population of a municipality. These are the serious things that we will have to face and, of course, the state must do everything by discharging entrepreneurship through attracting investment and then by the competent ministry, in this case the Ministry of Transport and the Croatian Roads, so that projects like this can be speeded up so that tomorrow this news will be for Slatin, to make me, the people happy and to keep our people here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101854	Mr Tomislav Žagar represents the position of the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101855	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So in this country everyone needs to do their jobs, workers should do their jobs, trade unions, their governments, and we MPs can do their jobs again, warn about what's wrong, and in this case we must warn ourselves to get back to those first, that workers and when they want to get their job back can't do it, not by their own fault, but by the guilt of those who led it and who are responsible for it. On this break I was invited yesterday's inscription on one portal, the title is the following, unheard of, the leaders of Brodosplit, were secretly involved in the fate of the Oily Group. As the Voice of Istria exclusively learns, the Shipyard of Brodosplit Tomislav Devljak, the internal affairs of the Oil Group were directly involved, thus jeopardising the business interests of the pulse company. Namely, the proposal for two excerpts of 3 May from the Group's Oil Group, which was reportedly composed by workers from Rijeka, was fully designed on Brodosplit. What we can almost safely conclude at this point, Croatian shipbuilding not that it sank, it seems to have hit the bottom. But I'm saying this from this fact, if you see n in this portal, it says one word here, yesterday said the president of the Parliament in the Croatian version, the word advent or arrival. In fact, at this point, 3,000 shipbuilding workers in the Oily Group work 12 months. without any guarantee, without any reason to get it paid. In 9, 10, and 11 months. they received minimum salaries there guaranteeing them, however, for the 12th month. There's no more. I won't go back much now, there was an opportunity and I won't interfere with the Minister's work and what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has to do with whether there's a strategic partner, so there's no strategic partner, so how did Uljanik Grupa help 3. May, so she sucked it in, so the internal loans were going from 500 to 600 million kn, let the other institutions deal with it. I just want to find out that the condition in which the shipbuilding workers are located is not good. Or break it up by the Minister, maybe a bankruptcy from a condition like this where they don't even know what's going to happen tomorrow. What are the facts? Let's go back to that loan, and we can find the data in the media, a 600 million-dollar loan, it's not back to 3. Maya. All the repromatter that could have been pulled out of the shipyard was dragged to the Ulnik, speaking from the shipyard from 3rd. The Maya of Rijeka. Only personnel work, workers leave daily, and be careful that they are qualified workers, workers who will not be on the Croatian market soon. The shipyard was rescheduled with state money, the new one was transferred to the Uljannik, and now it's a rescheduled shipyard. Ships, paints 733 514 in excess are almost 60% but have been standing for months, all the burden will fall on the back of the state and, of course, the advances will be paid to the boaters. What is most important is that of the 1.12 workers are coming to work, they are currently on strike, but there are no minimum wage payments for them anymore. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must do everything it can or indeed have the restructuring programme launched, to enable workers to continue working or to end this agony in which they are currently working without any guarantee, that they will get paid for it. Here I am now mentioning at this point only shipbuilding workers, of course it is a multitude of related companies, cooperatives, who have also not received their claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101856	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101857	We move on to the next presentation of the position, dear colleague Marko Vučetić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independents.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101858	Dear colleagues and colleagues, this year we repeated the same data, which means that we have not implemented public policies or planned, which is that 20% of Croatian citizens remain at risk of poverty. This information should be the data that should be at the level of our other self, the one that constantly warns us and warns us that all the decisions we make and all the strategies we are considering and the laws we are discussing should be in the function of reducing and reducing this percentage and this number and the real number of citizens who are exposed to poverty. Let's not think that this is one piece of information that can be in the area of our insolence, this is a data that needs to be strongly involved in all of our forces that are capable of solidarity and root out the problem. Because the problem of poverty isn't just the problem of the economy, it's not just the problem of every particular person of our citizen in the social exclusion situation, it's the information in which this country, this country, is being taken away from democracy. The poor citizens and citizens who are exposed to an increased risk of poverty are those who are directly kidnapped by democracy because they are unable to participate in the processes because of poverty and social exclusion. What is called hope in the literature, mostly literature that belongs to the philosophical and theological fields of scientific discourse, is closely related to this population with these citizens. For what? Because the poor are poor because they have been made poor, what brings people out of poverty through solidarity is effective laws, they are strong social policies, strong social measures in which we will make sure that people have knowledge and environments that will enable them to overcome their poverty and thus lead to a stronger and stronger growth of democratic processes in the Republic. What we saw in today’s example when we discussed the Law on textbooks. The Law on textbooks, if observed from the level of poverty, we have seen a good initiative, and this initiative is that Croatian students and students in the Republic of Croatia are those who will follow the trends of the modern world, which are trends in digitisation. The reality of Croatia is that at least 20% of poverty went to schools, in structures, we have schools that do not meet the conditions of the 21st century, we have laws that want to meet the 21st century but also have one mental blockade and the inability to face what our policies are doing. In Croatia we have 555 municipalities and cities, we have 555 mayors and mayors and mayors and the mayors will have no problem saying they have poor schools, schools that do not meet standards, but will not question their own status. Here we now have the mental poverty of the mayors and mayors, we have mental poverty policies that are unable to understand that poor schools in Croatia and poor citizens are the direct consequences of poor mental intellectual Croatian policies that are unable to understand that what we are bringing today and what we are thinking about today and we are discussing will directly affect the quality of life of our citizens. And the quality of our decisions is that today 20% of our citizens live at risk of poverty, we produce them, we take democracy, we take democracy, and out of the total number of older populations, 28% is at risk of poverty. That's what the attorney general says, but we don't listen to it, which is why we live in intellectual and political poverty produced by real structural poverty in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u101859	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110928	Good morning, honourable MPs and MPs. We'll start working. Based on Article 247. Rules of Procedure, the Legislative Committee has proposed to the Croatian Parliament that 33 points held today be held in the debate, because they are all related to the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Inspectorate, which is in the second reading, as you know, P.Z. No. 459. All of these remaining points are, in fact, only in a way, related to the minimal changes in other laws so that these other laws comply with the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Inspectorate. Of course, I have to ask if you're okay with it. Here you go, the first man to raise his hand was a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We disagree with this proposal because this is about order of the Croatian Parliament to one party, one person. Today we should discuss lex chair, lex Mikulić, lex earlobe, meaning one function and the Croatian Assembly should be 33 points, 33 laws to unite to create a single function for its member, Andrija Mikulić So it is not something that is of interest to the Croatian Parliament and we invite you to discuss each point in person and invite you, if there is no time, unless there is time individually, ok, the lapus happened, it is a really big tragedy, means each point individually, if you do not have time today, I invite you not to take a break 15.12. and a month we go but to continue to discuss these points as well. [[Thank you very much, we understand.]] So I'm asking you, not the Parliament, the highest institution in this country to submit to HDZ, And I told Andri Mikulic, and I told the lex chair, the lex ear. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110930	Thank you, we understand, thank you very much. Honorable representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We at MOST also disagree with a united debate because we believe that here one man is given Pharaoh's power, that the law is made only for one man and that this trade coalition in the Zagreb Assembly is therefore humane and that the citizens of the city of Zagreb must not be hostages, that the Parliament has become the vote of law only because of one man and we ask that individual debates be held.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110932	Thank you very much. Since there is, of course, no single position on this, then we must vote on this proposal. I ask you then to approach the vote on this proposal, so who is for the proposal to unite 33 points that I repeat all related to the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Inspectorate and it is literally minimal changes, almost in some just one word to comply with this law. Please, who's in favour, we'll vote manually, who's in favour of a united debate? Please, please... [[Intruder Bull: Not manually, you have no quorum.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please, please, please, please, let's not yell. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Please nice, please nice, don't yell from the bench. [[I'm looking for a quorum check.]] We can talk normally without yelling, without yelling at each other, etc., right. So, for a situation like this, the need for quorum is not foreseen... Let me read you Article 247. Part 3 applies to this situation. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] ‘On the proposal of the Chair of the Working Body of the Legislative Committee, in particular here or club representatives, on two or more points of the established agenda, a joint debate may be held if the majority of the representatives present agree on this.’ You know that I strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, therefore, colleague Maras, if you really think that the Rules of Procedure is injured, I will, of course, approve it but don't abuse it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110933	Let them warn you, there's nothing at all controversial. This is scandalous. You can't gather in the assembly most of the MPs...... An article that defines the decision-making process has been injured, most MPs are required to make decisions at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] It's hurt, so it's a matter of voting logic and the functioning of the parliament, so you can't vote with two MPs on the issues that you want. So the majority should be present at the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110934	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Comrade Maras, you are, I have read you the Rules of Procedure, I have read the provision of the Rules of Procedure which speaks exactly about this situation, you have nevertheless raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I have to give you a warning because I do not know, either you have not understood or you are not up to it to understand, I do not know, if I read you something and you speak yours. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the article you quoted was injured because it does not say anywhere here that most of the votes of the representatives present decide, says what you quoted, so on the proposal of the chairman of the home working body, the Committee on Legislatives or Clubs of Representatives of two or more points of the established agenda can be held a united debate, a point, the end of the quote and the end of the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110936	Read next, read next I'm sorry, I don't know which Rules of Procedure you're reading, but I've read you the current Rules of Procedure. [[So, I don't see it.]] Uh, maybe you old Rules of Procedure are reading, I don't know. Comrade Bulj, you will remain in breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110937	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So here we see what kind of Rules of Procedure has been passed that it doesn't really take most of the Parliament to be a majority. So, this Rules of Procedure has been passed exactly adapted to do whatever you want, however you want, for parliamentary deputies to vote. 247. The Rules of Procedure are not democratic, you have brought not democraticly this Rules of Procedure, You have brought no need for most.../ Intruder: colleague Bulj, I am giving you a warning/...in Parliament, and that you can do whatever you want [[Aggression: A colleague]] Well, you've brought it in. [[Intruder: because you cannot interpret the Rules of Procedure whether he is democratic or not]] Nicely done by the Parliament. [[Intruder: So you will begin for every law etc., not this plaque, this is HS nevertheless]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110938	.../Intruder: I'm giving you a warning and this, please, we're going to vote... Well, we can do it electronically. We can electronically, come on, organize, please, that electronically, if it makes you happy, we'll electronic. Who's in, please? Okay. Who's against it? So, uh, it's unanimous with one vote, excuse me, one vote against, you get a second warning from your colleague Maras, and I forbid you to speak any further today, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110940	Dear Vice-President, I agree with you on this, about the way the vote was determined, means, on the agenda, most of the representatives present, but in order for the vote to be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we need to know how many people voted, so I ask you that the professional services of the Assembly determine how many people voted, meaning, for this proposal on a united debate, how many were present and how many people voted in favour of a united debate. No, not all of them, not all of them present, and I'm present, I didn't vote, no, I didn't sign up. It's my right. [[Intruder: Please]] I agree. [[Intruder: Please nice, let's not yell first]] Please, dear colleagues, please calm down the tensions, determine the number of people who voted, so for a united debate and continue the debate. [[/Intruder: That's how we start.]] There's no need for tension [[/Intruder: That's right, I agree.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110941	We have the number, please, as long as it was Z and one was against it, here you go. So, please, can we please, please, calm down now, we've done everything right, right, colleague Grumoja, don't you agree with me that we've done as correctly as we should be, therefore, please, now we're going to have a debate, uh, and, here you go, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110942	On behalf of the SDP Club, I'm asking for a break to consult whether we're going to take part in a debate on these points in view of the unseen, undemocratic, and let's calm down a little, what is it, what are you nervous about? Give everyone a warning, what you're nervous about, you'll vote, you can do anything [[Intruder: Come on, please, let's calm down, let's let colleague Jovanovic normally say what he wants to say]] you can do anything in the interest of HDZ, you don't care about the interest of the Parliament, the integrity of the Parliament, the interest of the citizens, it's important that Lex Mikulić votes, that a man sits in a chair and does what he wants. [[Agreement: Here is my colleague Jovanovic]] Shame on you. Every day you tear down Parliament's dignity, this vote, so that's, that's a cartoon of democracy, so why didn't you at least raise 76 votes to vote, so embarrass yourself and this Parliament. I'm looking for a recess so we can consult on the follow-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110943	Is that what you want? We're not on you, and we'll never be with those guys. I'll never be on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110944	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, on behalf of the Living Wall and Power Club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes to consult within the club on a situation where we have to discuss 32 points today, which is precisely scandalous because it's known that only a proposing person has to talk for 30 minutes, and only then the MPs should come in line. So, you're cutting down some debate that would only take 16 hours to explain, and all to give a position to a man who is deeply involved in potential illegalities, which points to the 2016 State Audit report, which clearly indicates that mining concessions in the Republic of Croatia have been awarded in a non-transparent way, guessing a company and guessing a circle of friends around Mr. Andrija Mikulić. You have this State Audit report, too, but no matter what, you want to give this man the authority of the Deputy Prime Minister and even in some way the Deputy Prime Minister, who will assign jobs to those who are party-like in Croatia, and all those who are professional and who want to do their job fairly will be persecuted and destroyed like those poor people you charge 10 thousand fines for several kuna extras in the register. According to this, we believe that, because of the interest of the Croatian public, this debate must be conducted gradually and therefore the reasons why we are looking for consultations in the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110945	Thank you, dear representative of Nikola Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110946	Dear Vice President, I have deliberately asked for votes to be counted and to show all the hypocrisy of HDZ and the ruling, so I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult. Namely, when it suits you, you refer to the Rules of Procedure, although it is obvious that most of the opposition and most of the parties are against what you have proposed in the Croatian Parliament here to discuss these numerous points unitedly, and when you have another situation when you have on the Committee on Foreign Policy violated the Rules of Procedure to impose a certain conclusion on you, for example. At that time, you do not want to invite dear colleagues to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. I'm up to a number of complaints, waiting for the delegation to go to Marrakesh, and you don't want the Rules of Procedure Committee to meet. Your hypocrisy is revealed today, so stick to the Rules of Procedure when it answers you, and when it does not suit you then don't stick to the Rules of Procedure, so that this man here who is tense as a rifle is just waiting to fly into the chair means the chief state inspector and this store of yours, the trade of HDZ, Milan Bandić, the image of the situation in Zagreb here to the National Assembly or to the Croatian Parliament is absolutely unacceptable to us. So now we're going to think very carefully about whether we're going to participate in this debate, and I ask you as vice president of the assembly, to take up my complaints about where the Rules of Procedure has been broken, which is an urgent debate between the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, don't do that, don't call on the Rules of Procedure when it suits you, and when it doesn't suit you then break it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110947	Thank you very much, this I, of course, will meet and discuss, there is no doubt about it, the board has to discuss it. Uh, the esteemed representative of Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110948	Thank you very much, Vice-President, I request a break on behalf of the HDZ in order to point out once again to the club members how the legislator proposed this by the legislator, in accordance with the current Rules of Procedure, and I would like to point out once again that this conclusion was reached unanimously by the Committee on Law, which means that they participated in the vote and representatives, members of the opposition representatives. So, precisely because such a proposal is justified because in these 32 draft laws, changes are of a technical nature and there is no need for each to be discussed individually because the changes are practically identical in each of them. That is why we have proposed that a joint debate be discussed in order to discuss all of this at the same time, because we have had such examples in the past when the government of the SDP, or their coalitions, was also uniting over 30 laws, it is in accordance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure and there is nothing that should require such sketches in the assembly. These sketches are purely for political reasons, and in the end those who propose and disagree with this proposal do not want to take part in the vote. That's ridiculous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110949	Thank you very much, of course, given the request for a break, I'll take a break by 10 and 3 minutes. It's 9:00 P.M. CONTINUED AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:05 P.M. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here is our break time, so please take your seats. But before we go to the debate, let me welcome the galleries of students and students of the Petra Preradovic elementary school from Pitomaca. Here. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to let you know one thing, so the SDP Representatives' Club will not participate in this political soap opera created by Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, where one man was affected by the chair of the chief state inspector and where you personally subordinated the Croatian Parliament to this ambition,...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110952	Thank you very much, uh...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110953	... where 33 laws we're discussing this one,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110954	Thank you very much, but you can't talk to a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110955	... all of a sudden, where you made an amnesty from the Croatian Parliament, 46 MPs were present and here on that side I would just like to inform you about that, that the Club of Representatives in this
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110956	We'll, uh, start with a point and first I'll ask you to let you know that the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172, 204 and 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that these legislative proposals be discussed in accordance with Rule 204 of the Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure shall combine the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The Government has submitted amendments to all those acts, except for the Final Proposal of the State Inspectorate Act, II. reading, PZ No 459, and they become an integral part of the Final Proposals of the Law. Please. Would the proposing representatives like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Minister of Economy Darko Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110957	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, appreciation and respected parliamentary representatives and MPs. After a parliamentary debate in the first reading in October of this year, today we have a final proposal for the State Inspectorate Act. The adoption is the State Inspectorate Act, the Government is an obligation stemming from the National Reform Programme for 2018. The National Reform Programme has identified measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, including the pooling of inspection services. As you have previously learned, this Law unites inspection affairs from the jurisdiction of 17 inspections currently formed within 8 ministries. We are talking about the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, work and pension systems, tourism, environmental and energy protection, agriculture, except for the fisheries inspection, health, construction and spatial planning, except for the supervision of state-owned buildings and part of the customs administration of the Ministry of Finance, which were in the area of the State Inspectorate before it was abolished. The text of the Final Proposal of the Law has been completed by respecting the observations made by the parliamentary working bodies, then making observations and proposals through the parliamentary debate, and by respecting the opinions of the resolutions from which those inspection tasks are taken over. In particular, one of the remarks made during the first reading parliamentary debate concerned the division of inspection operations in the area of construction. The point of reference is accepted and the final proposal of the Law defines the part of the construction inspection in a way that the State Inspectorate takes over the complete inspection tasks of the inspection building. Furthermore, through the parliamentary debate, it was also proposed to define the issue of cooperation between the Chief State Inspector and the Minister of Defence, i.e. the Minister of the Interior. In this context, additions have been introduced regarding the performance of operations in the department of State Inspectorate for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Interior. These are provisions contained in certain applicable laws governing inspection operations undertaken by the State Inspectorate. An objection on the possibility of legal protection of inspectors, i.e. the Chief Inspectorate, will be accepted in the event of the conduct of criminal proceedings against an inspector who is initiated by a private prosecutor in relation to the conduct of regular affairs and tasks in the area of the State Inspectorate. However, the same costs will subsequently be charged by persons who are obliged to pay them in accordance with specific regulations. As regards the conditions for a forest inspector, it was also accepted in a way that a certified expert examination for a forest inspector, a senior forest inspector and a senior forest inspector was required. An additional part of the energy inspection has been arranged, and specific provisions on joint inspections in the field of energy have been added. A part-round inspection of the protection of nature has also been carried out and a new provision has been added concerning the handling of the request for search warrants by the competent criminal court. A new date for entry into force of this law is also proposed, i.e. on 1 April 2019. It is necessary, in parallel with the adoption of a new law, to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration to establish a State Inspectorate. It is necessary to implement, in particular, legislative activities already under way which will comply with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, in particular in the part of the provisions on jurisdiction to carry out inspection controls. It is also necessary to take preparatory action to start the work of the State Inspectorate. For this reason, at the meeting held on 22 November 2018, the Government decided to set up a working group to prepare the work of the State Inspectorate to coordinate and prepare all necessary activities. The Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and craft has so far received proposals from members of the working group from almost all the competent authorities and the working group will start working next week. We will try to plan for the first meeting of the same task force to be held at the beginning of next week in order to make all the necessary proposals for the sublegal acts necessary for the start of the work of the State Inspectorate in due time. In addition to legislative activities, it is necessary to carry out a number of technical preparations for the start of the work of the State Inspectorate, in particular taking into account the number of inspections to be combined. And that is one of the main reasons why we suggested that the law enter into force not from 1.1. but from 1.4 next year. During the parliamentary debate, an objection was made to a provision authorising the building inspector to collect personal and other data in a person’s home without prior consent if the home is also a construction site. We have considered the objection and decided not to accept it for reasons that the exception applies only to the case where inspection supervision is carried out on a building which is also home to the party. Therefore, the purpose of this exception is to enable the exercise of inspection supervision, the building inspector in the situations in question. With regard to the internal structure of the State Inspectorate, we continue to believe that this law does not require the establishment of the headquarters of the district offices and facilities, as these issues will be regulated by the Internal Design Regulation of the State Inspectorate. On the basis of the data collected on the capacity of individual inspections, their structure, economic needs and other specificities, it is precisely the regulation that will finally define the number of district offices and facilities that are optimal and functional for the future functioning of the State Inspectorate. I would also refer to the debate in part of the coordination of work and the uniform conduct of inspections throughout the Republic of Croatia and the conditions of work of inspectors. It is in the future State Inspectorate to ensure, through internal procedures, such a way of working to ensure effective coordination of controls between inspections in the inspectorate system and uniform treatment of inspectors and proper application of the principle in the conduct of inspectors in carrying out all necessary inspection tasks. By reducing the degree to which I say repression, i.e. pressure on supervised economic operators, it will allow for the creation of a proactive relationship with economic operators in cases where irregularities have been identified to remove already during the supervision or within the time limit for the elimination of the irregularities in question. I do not agree here with the view of individual parliamentary representatives that such a possibility is not possible in the way it was proposed by the Final Proposal of the Law. It is the provisions of the applicable law on economic inspections that have regulated the application of the principle of opportunity under the Criminal Law in the manner proposed by this final proposal of the law. The application of these provisions in practice shows that supervised economic operators act upon request by the inspector and remove identified irregularities already during or within the time limit given by the inspectors for the removal of detected irregularities. Of course, such a possibility of not processing cannot be applied if the supervised economic operator is in the return of the infringement and if serious infringements are involved. Finally, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this law that will regulate inspection operations in a more functional manner, because they will be carried out within one single body, which means better coordination between inspections, adequate planning and enforcement of controls in the application of the rules, uniform treatment of economic operators, other words more effective in carrying out inspection tasks, which will allow for better protection of citizens and a greater level of legal certainty for all economic operators. From all of this, we propose that the Croatian Parliament adopt the in question, the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110958	Thank you very much. We have a pretty long list of replicas, so we need to start right from the beginning. The first one was, the fastest one was Honored Representative Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Minister. Definitely this is a law called Lex Mikulić and there is no doubt at all we will be surprised if there is someone else at the head of that institution, but also, it is a law that is pre-election, because then the inspectorate of those whose HDZ grudges will touch them a little more than those whose HDZ does not mind. And at a time when HDZ swears to unload the economy, when the HUP scor is one of the lowest in the EU, a new inspectorate is created, with new people, where you will hire your new HDZ, 100 or 200 new people, 1800 chairs, computers and everything else, smells like corruption, which was very much present at the state inspectorate during HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110960	Thank you, Minister Horvat's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110961	Thank you, honourable parliamentary representative on this replica, in which I must confess, a lot of flat and incorrect data has been presented, and I must admit, that at least I am not, perhaps somewhere in the center of town it is mentioned, but the number of 1800 has been said today for the first time, and I'm afraid that the number of 1800 has been deplaced the figure we're talking about today. And to call the Law on State Inspectorate lex and something, I can actually only determine the material, for all of us here who are present, therefore, by introducing or uniting 17 inspections, suddenly the central state body, aims to coordinate between inspections, adequate planning and enforcement of controls for the application of regulations, uniform treatment of control entities, in other words, more effective conduct of all inspection tasks. And through every line, I'm going to read this sentence, because that's my final conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110962	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Liposčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110963	I thank the Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, for several questions from the field and interpretations regarding the powers of the Inspectorate himself and regarding the forest inspection and amendments to the Law on Forests, he would take advantage of the opportunity and would like to highlight a few of the things that were inconceivable. The forest law continues to divide the supervision of administrative, inspection and expert supervision, with clear definitions and individual competences, i.e. individual controls. The State Inspectorate takes over after this inspection inspection, which has been under Ministry's supervision so far, while that expert surveillance, and there were the most enquiries, i.e., the misunderstanding from the field remains on the chamber of engineers, forestry and wood technology. So she's called the professional section, stays under the authority of the chamber and authorized engineers, while the state's inspectorate conducts an insight into acts, supervised persons, the legality of business and others. And that's why I'm going to repeat again, because of the question from the field, professional surveillance is doing the profession, inspection is staying on the inspectorate, and there shouldn't be overlapping on the ground... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110964	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110965	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, my support and my support will be given if this means going to relieve the repression, to go more warnings, and less punishments, that we do not have a situation here where we now have 17 inspections, let's say six-thirds of them, come out to me in Osijek, in Slavonia, Baranja, an unfavourable ratio, we have, or perhaps for inspection a favourable ratio, given the economic operator and the number of inspectors and they have to write something, they have their quota. And then we get all those six to write something. If this means that, instead of those 6, one inspection will go on alerts, not preventative and reduce repression, and we know what one crafter must do from noise, from protective measures, out of danger, stickers of all kinds, bases below the counter, if that means he'll go in that direction, then he has absolute support because I think enough repression is enough for our economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110966	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvot.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110967	Thank you, honourable parliamentary representative, for the series of articles that begin with the article. The 70s end with an article. The 75th within which we made it clear, which is a violation and which will not be treated by a violation. Therefore, all of those easier or easier violations, which will be relievable, in the inspection process itself, or will be removed until within the resolved term or until the power of that solution is deemed to have been neither committed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110968	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110969	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, a few years ago, we started rebuilding the parish church, I advised the parishioner not to remove the skeleton from that church, because you know, while the skeleton, while the works are, I guess there will be charity, because the bishop would rather hold his hand like this. Why am I telling you this? Go through Slavonia, take a ride on the state road, take a ride on the county roads, you'll see that it's very much unprovoked, very many houses unfinished, with us in Slavonia building houses is not... It's not the end of time, it's the end of time, so it's just that it's happening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so once again, please remove yourself from the article. In accordance with the constitutional provisions of Article 56(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 34th home is non-injurious, not a single inspector can, so he was also a construction worker entering a home without a court order or without the police's authority as defined by the Constitution with Article. 34. It's not really clear to me why it insists on staying in this bill, it's just not a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110970	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110971	So, after a respected, parliamentary representative, after the first reading, after being seen, I would dare say the same Polish provisions, the profession, the Parliament's Legislative Committee, which proposed the final draft of the law, had no objections, no new suggestions, no knowledge that the provision in question was either constitutional or in any way disrupts the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. It is one legitimacy that the inspector will have in order to perform more functional, faster, more transparent and effective inspections in case the home is actually a construction site.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110972	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mladen Madero.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110973	I thank the vice president of HS. Dear Ministers, we agree in part by uniting inspections at the State Inspectorate, but you have noted in your presentation, which I am particularly interested in, that veterinary, agricultural, hunting, forestry, and emergency sanitary inspection has taken over from the Ministry of Agriculture. So I'm specifically asking you why it didn't take over the fishing inspection, why no fishing inspection was taken over, and I'm asking you, is there going to be hunting in the murky in the Republic of Croatia again?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110974	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110975	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. So, the polemics of this type, who will be working on supervision, and who will have professional verification when they are adopted or transposed into Croatian legislation acts constructed by the EU, according to existing regulations and EU directives and in all members, full members, as well as in the Republic of Croatia, and in the Republic of Croatia will have a fishing inspection within or within the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110976	The next replica, the esteemed MPs of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110977	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, my question is exclusively, I would say, of a technical nature. In the media lately, they've been reading how many inspectors they're going to be in that big inspectorate. You've certainly done all the tests and you know how many will be, so it would be good to say how many people you'll be. And there's one more thing, since the inspection starts with work under this proposal on April 1st, so, in order for them to start working on April 1st, all of them have to get a certain precondition, I guess there's going to be a budget rebalas that a special inspection item is set up to work at all, but where that inspection will work, at which location, if you've already set up a location, if you've rented the premises, if you've got a country-run area, so it would be good if all of that were to be expected, if April 1st starts, to tell us that in the Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110978	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110979	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. You've never heard of me that before all the sublegal acts that the government has formed a commission that will ultimately bring them in very quickly, I have the numbers that the media have. And some policyholders, first they order their own media here at half past ten, and then in one hour they comment on themselves as if the media had said it. We see and watch such games, but at some point, and that will be very soon, we will also know the exact location of the centre or central office of the State Inspectorate, and that is the exact number of the regulation in the internal structure of the systematiced posts in the State Inspectorate. The controversy about whether there will be 800 or there will be 1400 or there will be 1800 maybe someone from the MPs predict and 2500, we'll know that when it's over. [[Intruder: Thank you]] The Internal Design Regulation and then everything will be transparent in public. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110980	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110981	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. We know that the State Inspectorate will unite the inspection tasks currently carried out in 8 ministries. It is clear that the establishment of the State Inspectorate will make business more transparent. I am interested in your opinion, or was the abolition of the State Inspectorate by the SDP government a politically wise decision or deliberate manipulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110982	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110983	Thank you for this question, Your Honor, MP. Well, here, I'll make my personal point. If this political decision had not been wise for me, then it had not been made, we would have had a much, much more effective inspectorate in these past five or six years, and whether she was wise or not, I must admit, I have given myself a little effort, so I have read a few articles of the profession from various resolutions which she said, and don't hold me by the word, not one expert who, or at that time, was a part of these professional services of Inspectorates or the Ministry or the public, did not quite positively reflect the abolition of the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110984	The next replica of the respected representative, Zeljko Glasnovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110985	Dear sir, you should think carefully about what kind of people you're going to put to work in that new inspectorate. Why? So far we have tax data, we have 50 billion kunas from 2012 that individuals and companies owe to the state, so far, I'm not interested in the left, right, shooting the party, but an efficient system, I'm in favour of an efficient system. What about retroactive laws? The people who will work there, they will... to have all the checks up to the seventh knee and what training these people will be. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So far, it's been a total disaster on the ground. Let's say, the IRS, where billions of kunas were washed, what about retroactive laws, how it would work if people weren't paid well. You have a correlation between low wages and corruption in every country. We ask you to think well of it because it is the most responsible job in the country. We again as a mantra here, we have good laws and there is no mechanism for Hare Krishna to repeat it here for 20 years and listen to the same story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110986	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110987	Thank you, Honorable Parliamentary Representative, for this matter. I'm sure I won't be SOA, the police, the state's attorney, or the state's attorney's office when those people are transferred to a new institution that is now part of the inspection services and that with one long experience, they're doing the job. I will not doubt their expertise and qualifications, but what is a fact if we fail to correct the new internal organisation regulation and coefficients all those professional people who have potentially wished or will be able to be these state inspectors against the defined and conditions of employment in this law and the number of years of employment I am sure they will not accept a new engagement. So, with the new internal structure, we need to reconcile two things and the coefficients and the number of people that are going to be shares of the new State Inspectorate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110988	The next is a replica, respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, for accepting the first reading in the section relating to the unification of the building inspection, I think that is a very good proposal. I'm normally under a grotesque charge, the objections from the opposition that are directed towards this law. According to them, when sanitary inspector Petar Petrovic, who comes in front of the health ministry in some kind of control, then he's independent, then he's responsible, then he works by law. And when this same sanitary inspector, Petar Petrovic, now comes in front of the State Inspector, then he's corrupt, then he's politically colored, then he's selective. So, they're trying to unargumentedly political that goes exclusively towards uniting inspection operations in one place and thereby reducing the number of controls, to better perform this same inspection surveillance and thus speak more about themselves, and less about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110990	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110991	Well, here's a respected parliamentary representative, not only that remark, we have through a very systematic and regular procedure in two readings of this law given both to the Croatian public and to the profession and to the politicians and to the ministers in 8 resolutions whose business inspection is being united in the central state office, so here's twice as many of you as the MPs, the opportunity to comment, to propose better solutions, the vast majority of these suggestions we adopted, and I'm sure there's a better concept in front of us than it was in that first reading, and the fact that through the implementation of this law can be made changes and complemented, I'm sure both the profession and the interested public and in the segment of the application of this law in this same way to include in possibly its changes and additions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110992	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110993	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, I commend first and foremost the establishment of the State Inspector something that was shut down 5 or 6 years ago and proved to be very bad on the ground. A number of reasons have already been presented, and I would not repeat it only would the voice of the people, meaning craftsmen, small entrepreneurs who visit and hope that it will now be much more coherent, much more functional, that five different inspectors will not come to them in one week because they do not know what the other is doing, but they will now unite in one place and will know when they are going to whom they are in the inspection. One thing to ask or say is that the State Inspector is being established by the central office in Zagreb and the district offices of the branch offices, I hope that this will be done on one correct principle that there will be no majorisation of individual counties over others and that the transactions will be evenly deployed and that in the entire area of the Republic will be carried out in a unique manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110994	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110995	Thank you, Your Honor, for your very correct remarks, I can only repeat your words. So, at the moment we created this legislative framework, not only did we contact the profession, we contacted the real business sector and, with their suggestions, we adapted the articles in question from 71 and 75 to them and for the purposes of them. Therefore, it is without prejudice to punish an entrepreneur for any injury that he may remove on his own or at the time interval of carrying out inspection or in a solution issued by the inspector may be defined within which that deficiency may be removed. All those repetitions will be considered intentional, and all those serious violations will be sanctioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110996	Next replica, the esteemed representative of Angel Strike.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110997	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers with associates, and I absolutely agree and support the adoption of this law, I believe that if something works well, let alone change, the inspectorate should never have abolished it. In your debate, you stated that the objective of adopting this law is to better protect citizens and economic operators, which will be achieved through uniform treatment, more effective work, etc. However, I absolutely agree that perhaps even greater importance should be given to preventive action. More effective work may be that there will be more supervision but I believe that exactly the intensity of this law is what you have stated on several occasions is that it does not always have to end with punishment, that it is possible to warn, to give the possibility to remove irregularity, especially if it is small, petty violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110998	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Krizanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u110999	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. Also due to questions from the field, one clarification please, regarding the establishment of the State Inspectorate, will be amended by the Veterinary Act and the Food Act. So I'm curious, a question for you, or perhaps for the secretary of state, if she's more prepared to answer, in the area of food safety, how is it regulated to adopt implementing rules on the one hand and to implement the same rules on the ground on the other hand, so I'm wondering which jobs will remain in the Ministry of Agriculture and what jobs will the Inspectorate do and what is the competent food authority? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111000	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111001	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. Already in the disagreements within the first reading, we have made it clear that food surveillance will continue to remain in the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111002	The next is a replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111003	Thank you, Vice President. Honored Ministers with Associates. We all hope that the joint inspections within the State Inspectorate will change the practice and the way the inspections are currently being done and the letters and thinking of the craftsmen within the Chamber of Commerce and the members of the OPG are currently talking about it, because it was inadmissible that in one month individual entities have 15 and 17 different inspections, one employee would have to only have to respond to the demands of the inspector and you said that there would be one quality approach and selective approach, so far the opinion of the craftsman is that it was not a selective approach, that it was acted on anonymous reports and that this was simply an unacceptable approach and that it culminated now at the fair in Istria, at the olive oil fair where the strictness of the small is being trained. Well, here's to the Advent in Zagreb yesterday. I don't think the State Inspectorate should work like that, so we should make sure that those who don't work and not small craftsmen are punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111004	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111005	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. So, the draft of the law as proposed and at the very beginning of the session at the very beginning of the point, the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament made one statement saying that the text of the law in question, in order to make it even better and more fully adapted to the pragmaticity and ability to act on it, has several amendments to the Government itself, and one of these is just an adjudication of the possibility that anonymous applications will in this way already require each application to have the name, last name of the applicant and the reason why such application is submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111006	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111007	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm really glad you fixed some things up from the first reading until the second reading. I think this kind of formation of the State Inspectorate is a much better solution than the existing one. First of all, I think it's good for our citizens because in the existing system it's not possible to file a complaint as a regular legal remedy on the inspection report, for this reason we don't have two-stage resolution, so we have to go to the lawsuit immediately. In the new system, therefore, complaints will be able to be made and in this way the parties in the proceedings will be able to use the Institute of Appeal against the Ministry before the administrative court, and I think it is certainly in favour of our citizens. I'm just asking you to tell me if it's possible that in those intense summer months they come to help, say, the sea, some services because we know that the inspector is an insufficient number in such summer months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111008	The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111009	Here's to this second part of respected parliamentary deputies, the answer, so this first finding is both credible and thank you for it and the law provides that people who will be systematised in the central state office, can, without any specific instructions or provisions or consent, be engaged in the activity of the state inspector throughout the Republic and those inspectors who will be systematised to their jobs within the premises and regional offices, based on instructions issued by their main authorities, will be adequately required, deployed to a number of days and in other areas of Croatia, in order to carry out inspection surveillance on the whole of Croatia, depending on the needs uniformly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111010	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111011	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary, do you really think this play was a coincidence this morning? It's not. Because when the State Inspectorate was abolished, then the ministers made their own empires and at the head of those inspections, appointed their own people. And what they're attributing to this government today, they did it about five years ago, and they're just afraid for those people, and that's why they made this play today that they did, and I'm going to talk more about it in an individual debate. However, something I would like to share with you, Mr. Minister, is a body for a secondary procedure. This may be one of the most important construction units in the State Inspectorate, and I think that perhaps in law it should have been pointed out that he is the head of that unit's assistant chief state inspector, because it is one body that is operationally looking at perhaps the most important. It brings together all complaints from all the inspectorates and they are the ones who, before the administrative court, give the last word and the word... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111012	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111013	Thank you for this suggestion. I'm not even saying that at this point we accepted it or we didn't accept it, so that moment of vote of intervention in the law is possible. If this is a political play or something, I wouldn't talk about it right now. Therefore, my task was both technical and legal and pragmatic and physical in order to say a legal proposal, and I will take advantage of the opportunity to read you a sentence that I will never give up with the intention of better coordination between inspections, adequate planning and supervision in the application of the rules, uniform treatment of economic operators, other words more effective in carrying out inspection tasks.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111014	Are the committee's reporters now going to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first will be the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club in the name of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak. But before that, let's all welcome to the gallery of students and students of the O.S. Petra Preradovic from Pitomaca, another group.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111015	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with all co-workers and state secretaries from other ministries. We have before us a second reading of the State Inspectorate Act. We from the GLAS and HSU club as well as all colleagues who will be here soon do and formally one Amsterdam coalition that is announced and will be formally signed these days and we have decided to stay in this debate, we have decided to say what we think about it, we have decided through the debate and to list certain and dilemmas and problems and everything else that we think will come through this State Inspectorate because it seems to us that the topic is extremely important and extremely important and that it should not be... and go and say that I will not participate in this, that it is much more useful to participate in the debate and make it clear what problems can be created here and what we appreciate that can be good and what we appreciate can be bad. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's how we're going to work in this assembly because they chose us to talk about problems and not talk about them. I'd like to talk about this subject through a few groups of problems. The first group of problems is organisational, so it's decided and it's reforms that I think don't fit here and there's nothing about reform, but it's something that the government has decided and it's equally consistent and has quite enough hands to vote on, and no one should doubt that what they've decided and the intention they intend to carry out. I have one at the club when we talked and together when I consulted other colleagues, so it's enough, no matter how big the minister said he couldn't say at this point how many people there would be, it's pretty important to know how big a body would be. Is that a body that can be managed at all? So I really don't want to go back and I won't go back and tell you how many people there will be, but if it's really true that it's going to be about 1400, 1500 people it's going to be hard to manage and it's going to be another state inspector who's going to be another couple of coordinators who can coordinate it all together. Similarly, let's say technically, I'm thinking now purely technically that something might work on April 1st and on April 1st, tomorrow, in order for the inspection to be able to do its job you already need to know about what resources you need, you need to know how many people it is, you need to know how much I'm talking about these boards all the time, you have to change at the local level, because more will be, so the State Inspectorate, otherwise it's going to be called, how much it is, no one has said what it means to the budget, what the additional funds mean for it all together, where these people are going to sit, which means for some material things, how many cars it's going to take. So there's this series, a series of things, that means colleagues who coordinate it, and the coordinator is the Ministry of Economy, they have to tear their legs apart until they put it all together, until they get all the data and all the groups in one place. So that's one organisational problem for you. Because what's experienced is that when something like that starts, then the first six months no one does anything until it's seen, until in those six months the debate starts, who's going to sit and who's going to sit, what's going to be called, and we certainly can't afford it. The second topic I want to talk about is the subject of the role of inspection. Being an inspector, let's be honest and say, being an inspector isn't easy and it's not easy. Getting a quality inspector, too, no matter what group of jobs we're talking about, it's just not as simple. Why am I telling you this? So someone who is an inspector must have knowledge that is absolutely related to administrative procedures and making a solution because solutions to the inspection really shouldn't fall for formal reasons. It must have expertise, so it must have expertise for certain problems and a certain group of problems. And thirdly, therefore, he must be absolutely consistent in his decisions for a simple reason because already just entering an inspector anywhere causes impatience, attention because every time the inspector comes, everyone has a feeling he'll definitely punish me and I must have done something wrong. The role of the inspection should also be at that, so I no longer doubt that there will be no such great inspectorate, so the decision has been made, we go to another reading and that great inspectorate will be. The role should be educational and advisory. Educational and advisory for the simple reason why what you really should do should work, whether it's counselling, whether it's round tables, whenever some regulation changes, but even when you have existing regulations that people can come and ask, that people have, that you have some instructions about work for a simple reason, so, and it's always the first time, someone can make a mistake, the second time he made a mistake, he didn't make a mistake by accident but he made a mistake on purpose. So if we really want to bring the inspection to the level that I'm absolutely sure it should be, so they should have one advisory role, one instruction to say so, with some kind of a palette of all things that they've seen in a year and they've said they've been repeating this and that problem, don't do it anymore, and then the role of inspector should be absolutely clear. So, that one fear of inspection, when the inspection comes, I'm certainly going to be punished for something, I must have done something wrong, would, the role of being a state inspectorate and an inspection to make it all less, to a lesser extent, somehow reduced to the least possible measure. When we talk about the work of the inspection, so I have to admit, in my working life, the most important thing I've ever met with the work of a construction inspection, and then I can do more about it, but I'm going to do it in this third part of the inspection, but there's another thing that's extremely important, extremely important, it's very gently defined here in Article 55, it's preparedness and work behind working hours. What bothers our citizens absolutely is this, when I set an example here on the weekend, and I will set an example here, you know I was also in this assembly when I was on the other side and defending another law, then I was told by a parliamentary representative who no longer sits, that there is traditional self-building in Croatia. Then when I asked for a little explanation of what traditional self-building means, then it turned out that traditional self-building in Croatia, when you have, when friends come, you buy construction material and on weekends you work, because the weekends don't do inspection, then it was an explanation that it was traditional self-building, Friday afternoon, Saturday, Sunday, nice weather, the floor is there if there's enough that are ready, then the next weekend, the next, you come under the roof and talk the end. So it's extremely important that the inspections work and be available beyond working hours, so behind formal working hours and weekends, for the simple reason that the citizens really call the inspection, call the inspection because it has to, because it's happened, the reason why they call and then of course they call, the inspector doesn't call, they can't win anybody, and then they call someone else, and then someone says but we don't do, if it's already one big inspectorate, if it's already one, one bulky system, then it would be extremely important that you have a special head, so that you have a special head and that you take care about the work behind that formal working time, so in the afternoon, it's important for both catering and for a number of other things, and the work on weekends, that other words I want to say, the inspection must be available 24 hours of work, because when the word stops, some of 8-16, but some things are actually happening in the evening, and in the late, and should be organised and in time, and in time, and in time, and in time. Also, I'm going back to that first topic that I started, and that's the way and the structure and the organisation. We at the GLS and HSU Club, we appreciate that it is not a good model for the chief state inspector to be directly responsible to the prime minister, that it seems to us that he would be much better if he were responsible to the vice president who is in charge of the economy, because it is an inspection for that part and it is not a good way and in that sense we are willing to give a few amendments. And I'm going to go back to an inspection that I really know a lot about, which is a construction inspection and the role of a construction inspection, and there's a relationship between that of my favorite topic, the communal directors. There somewhere in 2013, when they were doing a set of laws, then in that set of the Law, among other things, we sat down with the Association of Cities, and a little talked to them to see how that, therefore, inspections were always a problem. If they work and then punish, they're a problem. If they don't, they're an even bigger problem. So that's where I should find some measure, and that's why I was stressing this, this need for a so-called instruction, and then when I get back to this topic, and when I talked to the City Association, then the mayor's principal said, but we have a problem, really, when the centralized inspections, and I'm really talking about construction, we should still have some possibility of spotting, we know a lot more, and then the law was passed, and then decided to increase the power of the communal directors. Why? Because the communal directors for their work respond, so, that is, they are employees of certain municipalities, certain cities, indeed, are on the ground, they can come much simpler in some situations, and then some, some of the jobs that communal monks can do, have increased significantly. So, unfortunately for those communal directors, as someone changed the rules, then it was a rescue solution -- let the communal director oversee it. So the regulations of the waste area, send them to the communal director, and when they were the subject of animal protection, the communal directors. I made a joke, and from this pay phone, I said something that I'm going to say, and now I'm going to repeat, the communal directors today have so much authority that only as I know they don't break up marriages and stuff like that, they do this all the other things. What do I want to tell you? If a really building inspection, such as the proposal now, is part of this great state inspectorate, what will have to be changed urgently, is the Law on Construction Inspectors, the jurisdiction of the communal directors, the attitude towards them, and you will have to define it from the definition that we would be operational in that part at all. In the debate I had in my first reading, I debated when it comes to building inspection the following way, I said if the building inspection must be in that great State Inspectorate, then make the following that the whole building inspection is because it won't be good to keep part of it at the Department of Construction, and part goes to the State Inspectorate because it's just not good. It would be incomparable to me if you had listened to a colleague, Branko Bačić, who said in the debate the construction inspection must remain in the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. And I kind of thought, Mr. Bacic is the club president, you're gonna have to discuss it a little bit more at the club and the construction inspection will stay at the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning and I'd rather you listened to him than me, but what's done is done. When you look at some of these other inspections, then you have to look at what's the point and what's the goal. If the purpose and purpose of all the inspections relating to a particular topic are to be in one place and they are to go out together, then I can say that this sense and this ultimate goal related to food, related to agriculture, related to these other sectors, have been achieved. With regard to the area of construction not being achieved because you will now have, I suppose you will not give up, regardless of what I am saying from this pay phone, regardless of the amendment that will be given, if the purpose of the Construction Inspectorate being in this great Inspectorate and having this one great inspectorate, then it is with construction, and I will repeat what I have been saying to the Committees and what I am saying now, then there should be everything that is related to construction, and I stress two inspections. One inspection is with the responsibility of protecting cultural monuments, and another inspection is an inspection that has the authority to work on marine goods. What am I trying to tell you? Someone who works construction works on a building that is protected from the aspect of cultural heritage protection, calls on the inspector who will continue to be in the Ministry of Culture, he will establish by his decision that he is doing works on the monument of culture, but he cannot continue to act. He will again now in the State Inspectorate call a building inspector who will come out again and determine something. If you wanted to have the whole story in one place, then in one place it should have been. So, these inspectors from the cultural heritage protection aspect, I'm sure they're gone more than 10. There's not more than 10 of them, there's relatively few of them. Why did you leave them to the Ministry of Culture, you know it's hard for me to figure out. Equally from the aspect of building on the marine good. With us at this point, I'm sure, the most illegal construction on maritime goods for reasons, all of them praying, all of those kind of upgrades, all of those kind of spillages are basically illegal construction because they couldn't be granted approval, you had to have concessions and everything else. And there you have again, this double-action now, not just double-action inspection, but double-action two bodies. So, inspectors, we're not talking about concessions on maritime good, but I'm talking about the work on marine good, and so, next topic, I might be in an individual debate, when the inspectors who are on the side of road work are, but now I'm just going to, because it's relatively little time, on the maritime good. So someone on the maritime good goes to build a mall, he first goes to an inspector who's in charge of maritime well-being and finds out that they really are, it's called the port captainship, so everything else and he finds that on the maritime good someone does the mall. But then he calls a building inspector who has to come up with a solution because it's the theme of construction. And then, of course, it's organized, when this one, in principle, is very difficult to determine who was working on the maritime good, because no one will admit that he was doing it. So you can't catch anyone... When someone is working on their cathartic particle, then you can very easily determine, look, you're an investor, you're on a maritime good no one will admit for the simple reason that breaking down on the sea's good is extremely expensive, complicated, you have to organize jars, boats, special machines and everything else. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, if it's already a decision to do a great State Inspectorate, I have to admit that in one of our own, therefore, we are at the Glada Club and HSU, and we have talked more widely with our colleagues, it's acceptable that some of the processes from some group would really make sense to be all inspectors in one place. But then if you decide to do it, then you have to do it consistently and it has to be meaningful. If the reason to be faster, more expedient, for inspections to do their job, to reduce the reason why you have the inspection, then you have to have it in one place when there's a topic of construction at all, and you have to admit that when the Inspection's work related to the building, these are hot pictures because they're always some kind of collapse, there's always some story about all this, this Law has not been achieved. Otherwise, to end, we're getting more and more regulations in this House where when you ask the question then the answer is we didn't define it by law, we're going to define it by sublegal acts. Basic things must be defined by law. The basic elements and conditions must be in the law, and the Sublaws are exactly them, they elaborate the basic conditions defined in the Law. In other words, we at the Voice Club if there's a solution like this, we'll have a series of amendments, if these amendments don't get accepted, and it's hard, I have to admit... You give the Amendments then you just say you don't accept, we can't and we won't vote for this law for the simple reason that there's one part that's not done properly and that isn't done in a way that will result in something better. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Likewise, if a large inspectorate had already been decided, why did we take the situation to decide in the last two weeks of the assembly, and there was plenty of time for this law to come before and in the first and second readings and maybe more opportunities and time to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111016	Thank you, too. On behalf of the promoter, he will now take the word of Minister Darko Horvat, Minister of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111017	Thank you, Vice President, once again nice greetings to all MPs and MPs, you don't mind me saying this, but I'm always happy to pole with you, constructively polarize, always until now the debate has been depoliticized, and the law's bodies are not understood, and then I can't even discuss it. Just two short, two short technical details about the clarification. So, your concern about whether at some point the inspectors who will find themselves no more in the ministries but in the State Inspectorate will provide the salaries and all material receipts in due time, all material needs to effectively carry out their tasks, is my answer that, already now, and a few days ago when you had the opportunity to vote on the state budget, I'm sure you noticed that there is a special division called the State Inspectorate and within that state inspector we have provided for all the material rights to bring that state inspectorate back to life. Likewise, at the same session where the law referred to another reading, the Government has formed one expert commission which I hope to share with the Joint Forces, or I am sure, because I will coordinate this committee to approach the creation of a regulation on the internal structure of the State Inspectorate in question and all those resolutions which I shall dare at this moment to tell the village inspectors from the supervision of the Ministry to the State Inspectorate will participate in the work of that committee. I also fully agree with you and, unlike some, I welcome your conclusion that, in addition to the need to amend and supplement other laws in order to bring the legislative framework into line with this law, we need to have a united debate in order to adopt the State Inspectorate Act at the same time and all those laws in which certain amendments are introduced and complemented in order to work with the Inspectorate in question. What we have conflicting doubts, so I don't doubt whether in the draft of the law we have clearly explained to us what or what technical equipment the senior building inspector – specialist, senior building inspector, building inspector, I have the other doubt that we have introduced into the law very specific and strict provisions of what in formal education but also the practice of such people must have in order to at one point or move from the ministry's intelligence into the authority of the state inspector, but I am afraid that at one point, given the need for such people precisely because of these very strict criteria that we have introduced, a lot of problems with filling all these systematic jobs with adequate professional training and adequate work experience. So, better coordination, united inspection supervision, inspectorate in the function of creating a competitive economy. You know why else? Not only is it possible for entrepreneurs to come and punish, not only to come and strike fear into the bones, but also to create for all of us to create the same conditions for business and for those who knowingly and knowingly respect the legislative framework and those we need to, I will not say, but also to certain first preventive ones, and then perhaps by repressive actions to make them respect that same legislative framework. So we want to make the same rules for everyone in Croatia, and then we want these individual economic operators to agree to show their ability to be good or better or best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111018	Thank you, too. You have five replicas. First, you will be replicated by Mrs. Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111019	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. If you're in opposition, the only way he can hear you is a pay phone. Therefore, we who are here form the Amsterdam coalition and which we will soon and formally sign think we must use the Assembly to hear us because it is our obligation to those who have chosen us. Ignore the problem, the problem won't go away if you ignore it. Therefore, we need to make our views clear and make it clear what is bothering you, and that is this pay phone. And I'm stressing all the time, and I'm going to stress further education, education, education. Morte has a quality inspector, inspector, when he comes to the field he must have one piece, so he must manage all the administrative procedures well, but he must manage the expertise. And it will be the task of the State Inspectorate, as you will see for yourself, there will be the most problems and here I am sure that the key problem is to get a quality fit.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111020	Thank you. Mr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111021	Mr. Minister, you just said what I said and in my replica earlier that you would hire new people because it is seen from the law, it is also evident that you have now announced that just those who are now in the inspectorates will not be able to come to the front post and everything else, but what I would like to point out was that the state inspectorate was a litter of corruption and it was seen that when we separated the inspections then we carried out security checks for those inspectors and we saw that some inspectors were violating the laws of the Republic, smuggling cigarettes, we were punished, etc., and we were still inspectors. In this law of yours, you avoided it and you removed it and I think it's one of the big mistakes that you didn't introduce security checks for state inspectors, so you made it possible to continue to be corruption in the inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111022	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111023	I will repeat the sentence that I have already said today, nor am I a security intelligence agency, nor am I a DORH, nor am I anyone who will make decisions and sanction in the manner that you had the opportunity when you recklessly abolished and docked a state inspectorate, so you took over almost 250 items based on which you could sanction at least one of those inspectors you wanted to sanction today. But the Honorable Parliamentarian, when you had the chance of 250 cases, you didn't give a single sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111024	Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111025	Well, it's very interesting when we adopt some sort of act in a very short time so we don't know what act we're adopting. Among other things, the budget clearly states that the State Inspectorate has received its division and that the funds from that division can be used as 1.4. It's just facts. However, the reason for my replica is when you mentioned the inspector problem, etc. So first of all, it has to be highly educated professional people with experience, but now the question is raised given the salary everything that in particular in some occupations we'll get people to do this job, and another thing if we don't technically equip them, if we won't allow them at least 3, 4 years of major job-implementation, unfortunately they won't be able to do their job quality. Because those who are contrary to the other side are also educated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111026	Okay, Mrs. Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111027	Dear Vice President, respected ministers with associates, therefore, the apriori is here to say that all those people who are going to work in the state inspectorate, that they are corrupt, that they are unquality, etc., and they are not actually saying that this achieves the unification and efficiency of the entire system because what you said entrepreneurs must know who is controlling them, how to know what they are doing and that they do not have a new inspector every day and that instead of focusing on their work, they have to prepare all the documents that are related to the verification. So we're about to check, to make it simple, quick and efficient.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111028	Thank you very much. Good and last replica, Mr. Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111029	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Minister Horvat with his associates, I'm glad to hear you say it will be the same rules for everyone. Of course, to this day, I can freely say that they were not the same rules. Usually inspectorates, inspectors saw if it was a good working time, whether it was signed somewhere in the toilet or not, whether 10 kuna was more or less, whether there were small things and nonsense, but millions and hundreds of millions of unpaid liabilities and taxes. And what was going on, it was going away, the companies went bankrupt, of course it was written off to no one. I think it's time and order for these same people to answer for what they haven't paid to the state of taxes and obligations and that's the question. And that's what Linic crossed over and allowed it to be destroyed and then, of course, certain businessmen and craftsmen who have been blocked or worked fairly, and have failed, of course, sneezed, and these other parallel companies have opened and, of course, enjoyed these millions. which they didn't pay the state. [[Intruder: Time, Mr. Misic.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111030	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111031	Thank you, Honorable Parliamentarian, but the same time as the entrepreneur. So all this effort that, unlike some who think we've been working on this law for the last two weeks, has been happening and happening all this year. The effort carried out in a very systematic and regular parliamentary procedure in two readings, without any force, struggles, where the comments of both the public and the professions and parliamentary representatives are heard but also listens to suggestions from entrepreneurs. So, yes, no more candy can be closed because of 5 kuna, no more 5.000 kuna fines will be paid because there is no fire extinguisher sticker, but also to all those who are your competitors and work unfairly and unfairly we will let them know that they must comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia as you who work fair and correctly. That means the same rules for us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111032	Thank you very much, now we will welcome the students and students of IX. The Zagreb High Schools that are here with us today are a round of applause. - Give it up. - Give it up. Thank you for being with us. And move on to the next club. HDS, HSLS and HDSSB representatives club, Mr Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates and associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the first reading, the HDS Club, HSLS and HDSSB, in which I speak, supported the Bill's proposal, with this proposal having experienced some improvements in the second reading that we have also shown, and this part being supported by inspections in the inspectorate, so that they could function together, so that it could all be much better, more effectively and so that this inspectorial repression against entrepreneurs and those entrepreneurs who are registered, and here is the minister in the opening part of the opening part on several occasions, and the article, it seems to me 73th, that it is also defined, that the model is abolished that the inspector enters some hairdressing salon, some shop, some shop, and that Malta is not due to some petty violation, because of some stick or something, is going to print out the places and to destroy them. It is a great improvement, I hope that it will be applied as well, and that it will succeed in good education and preparation of inspectors, when the state inspectorate is formed again, which I hope will no longer, again before it comes to life in practice, will be abolished, how these inspectors will be well educated, how all necessary training will go through to make simple understanding that they are not entrepreneurs, craftsmen of their enemies, that they should not attack them as predators, but simply have to be there to indicate the irregularities that people are doing, surely they are doing, and we are partly guilty of what they are doing because by adopting hundreds of legislative acts, regulations, regulations, I don't know what, we simply prevent a small entrepreneur or craftsman from following all these laws and that we can respect all these laws at all. It is therefore good to introduce this article and in some ways the inspection service in that part appears as a particular advisory body that indicates irregularities, indicates illegalities, allows an entrepreneur or craftsman to change it, to adapt, therefore, to repair and to operate according to the Law afterwards. The other part, which is very important and important, is that whoever is registered, whoever acts as an activity and does some business with a registered activity, should be seen immediately as someone who is a taxpayer, someone who is full of budgets, who pays taxes, who allows children to be educated, that people can be treated, that the whole system can be run. And those who work on black, who are not registered, should be those who are more closely supervised, who must be focused on special attention, because now I repeat it again, I said it in the first reading, we have a situation where a man who is registered, in principle being immediately targeted by inspections, is immediately attacked by inspections and is immediately destroyed the will to continue the work, continuing work and employment of people. That it is necessary to create a state inspectorate, that it is necessary to unite inspection services, I will try to prove to you by one example, a recent example of which I have been warned as a parliamentary representative, another electoral unit, and the example refers to forest work, to the cutting of the forest, somewhere around Gareshnica. Says the man like this, I've been cut down three morning woods and driven away. He reported all of this to a competent forest inspection in the area. The forest inspection didn't go out in the field, it sent a memo to the police. The police contacted the forest owner around that forest, he took them into the woods, showed them logs that were there by the woods, along the road, pulled out. The police said that, how does he know they're his logs? Afterwards, they told him that he had to make an assessment of the deforestation and that he had to submit a request for theft afterwards. The man did not apply for theft in general, but submitted a request for devastation of the forest, on which the forest inspection according to the man who went to investigate all of this, should have gone out in the field, therefore make that assessment or make a record and ask for an assessment of the damage to keep it all going together. If we add now, that this is about nature devastation, so that's where environmental protection is involved, if it's a forest tree, it means forest inspection, if it's about obvious and illegal forest cutting, it means illegal wood traffic, tax inspection, commercial inspection, so all this together on this one small example shows how dysfunctional we are and what's happening to us on the ground. And that's one of the great reasons why a grouping like this has to be done in a state inspectorate so that all these inspections on any such case, above any such example, can be coordinated and at the same time respond and sanction in such cases. And sanction in cases like this. Of course, it is also very important here to connect and cooperate with the Ministry of the Interior or the police. This is the example I had planned to talk about earlier in the Croatian Parliament, I pointed to it, I talked about it on the Committee on Agriculture, I was also preparing a thematic session on the subject, to stop and prevent the reselling of wood, deforestation and the avoidance of the likely payment of taxes. Perhaps on such an example, when the State Inspectorate is formed and started to work, it is on one example to do a good exercise, to do a good exercise to see if something can be done, how well it can be done. What I'd like to point out here is the inspector's actions, let's just say I've always found it fascinating, how certain safety inspectors are doing at work. When an inspector comes in to protect the construction site, then basically he doesn't protect so many workers anymore, he cancels, in a way, the worker's workplace. Because what they do, how they act, how they act, what they come up with, what kind of approach they have to the employer, it just doesn't make any sense. Inspectors aren't the ones who need to play some to say that to the bullyes on the ground, I don't mean physical abusers, I mean thugs who attack practically employers. An inspector can do his job peacefully, politely by law. And don't act like some self-invited man came by to say so to the sheriff who's not the real sheriff, and now he's running the law right now, and they're accusing you, condemning you and the minors, and shooting you right now. That's what we have in Croatia today. I look forward to what the minister says, that for the stickers and not having the stickers will no longer be punished, because these penalties that we have prescribed here again, and I used to say that we prescribe too many penalties, that it is not good and that it will use inspection services on the ground, often cause the maltene closure of a particular small place, some small store, some hair salon, some small one, to say such craftsmanship and simply people lose their will and stop working. There's been a lot of shouting and a lot of talking about the need to ease that story, that doesn't mean that it's time to power up and encourage lawlessness. It just means that, according to the businessmen, I'm specifically talking about craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, we have to have a very different view, I repeat, these people simply don't have time, study all those laws and regulations that we, which we, which bring forward, don't have. The inspections are here to point that out. And those institutions, and officially, at the local level, that are forming, various entrepreneurship centres, development agencies, I don't know who they are, and they should be at the service of these people and helping them have at all been able to track everything we bring together. The big one who has, the big company that has its lawyers, who has its economists' services, they know well what to do and they will simply manage to prepare it and solve it. That little craftsman, who does his job, so let's not expect him to really study all these laws, which we don't generally understand and bring ourselves. This tax, that inspection must play an advisory role. I hope that these words, which the minister said, will liven up, that inspection services will begin to act in a completely different way, that there will be order, that there will be righteousness, that there will be no squirm of small ones, and that it will leave the large ones to follow some punishments, which are not great to them at all, even if the little one destroys, and that they will not look at each other with the same look. You can't do that. We need to create a more positive atmosphere in the country, a more positive climate, encourage people to be entrepreneurs, to be craftsmen, not climates to kill them, I say, of course, kill their will for any entrepreneurial activity. With these messages, I stress once again, we will support the law, but we will follow what is happening on the ground and unless that way of the inspection service changes, if that climate does not start to change, we will point to the same thing here in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111034	Thank you, too. Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr. Schuker will take the word first, then Mr. Celic and then Mr. Križanić later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. I'm sorry that the assembly is empty, but you have something that has become a common practice for our colleagues on the left, when they come to power, they have suspended the financial police twice, they have abolished the state's inspectorate and for one reason only, that they can arrest their people and put their people at the head of these institutions and that they can control them. So it happened with the assistant ministers, it happened with the directors of the administration. When the state administration tries to depolitize and professionalize, it's facts. And then when you get into a situation, that someone asks you, well, what are the results of what you've done, I can say it here with full responsibility why, because you can take out my debate from 2013 and 2012, when the State Inspectorate was abolished, which I was saying, what are the results of that and today is whiteden that they have totally missed, their only goal was to replace the leaders of the State Inspectorate, put their people, the State Inspectorate put under the hat of the ministry because then ministers are more powerful because colleagues and colleagues, what is the primary task of the inspector? So on the ground, he controls the law that we bring here and controls how all the stakeholders in the process of implementing some law are acting. It's their job. And nothing else. And isn't it logical that you have in one place all the inspections united, that in one place you plan and education and everything else and material resources and all that you need to be successful or it's better to split up on them 10, 20 etc. And then everyone does it their way, and then what happens to you comes one, and then he controls something, so he can't do it, and then the other comes, and then we have a situation that we have. And what's key, let's not ask ourselves today are we politicians asking ourselves whether this is good or not, but let's ask those who are working and whether they are satisfied with the model and the way the inspections work. They're the only ones who are relevant. I'm the one who sees it. If they're not satisfied, then it means we missed the law. And from what each of us had the opportunity to hear, it will be more said by colleagues Celic and Križanić because they will talk about the formation of ministries, in fact certain inspections we have had the opportunity to notice that citizens, entrepreneurs and they are very pleased. But let's get going, I think this law is good, but what I want to say here on behalf of the HDZ Club, and that's what the minister already said, with the preparation of all these acts of regulations, structure, regulations, etc. It must start immediately because on 31.3. will arrive in no time, 1.4. we must not be in the vacuum, 1.4. there must be a clear situation as to how who works. I said, the government proposed in the budget, provided the funds, clearly indicated that this was going from 1.4, the Law on the Implementation of State Actually, the Budget Act defined how it would be done by then. So the management of the State Inspectorate is defined by the Chief State Inspector, I am merely here not clear why the Deputy Chief State Inspector is elected for 4 years and the Chief State Inspector for 5 years, because if we say in the next paragraph that the Deputy Chief State Inspector is changing the Chief State Inspector in absentia, then I do not understand why there is a time difference but well, the Proposer probably has that difference. What I said in the replica and I want to say it on behalf of the club, I think that this administrative department actually needs to get to the point and that the head man of that, by regulation you can solve or something else, must be in the status of assistant minister and other thing, that body... rather than the Chief State Inspector, and this whole body must have one special independent status in the State Inspectorate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because they decide on complaints from those complaining of solutions, so to the administrative acts of ministers on the ground. That's what they decide. and therefore they must have independence, they must have speciality because if there is any kind of contact there, unfortunately it may happen that those concerned are damaged and we must, let us now, as such, have a similar situation in the Ministry of Finance, you have a tax administration, you have a variety of inspectorates and you have a second-degree body and an assistant minister who led that second-degree body has always had a special status and that body as well and the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering has one special status. I would ask Mr. Minister if you agree and I think even all the ministers will agree because look, it is important for them to bring this second-degree body the right word how the law they have passed by an individual inspector would apply on the ground. It's very important, the minister himself is important because sometimes the inspector can do something wrong, it can be wrong and the whole law that's good and the whole ministry puts it on a pillar of shame, because the individual did something wrong, but if second-degree acts the way it is, then that whole story is corrected. So, I'm asking you to keep that in mind. Also, another article, which is Article 60, a request for a search of the apartment. I think that first of all there will be at least I have interpreted it so, satisfied our fellow citizens who are engaged in legal renting on the Adriatic because here it is said that inspectors can learn into space without seeing whether an activity has been reported or reported, until now it has been an excuse to enter because no activity has been reported. And believe me, it's going to my liver and all of you that different characters who are outside of Croatia, who bought apartments, keys change somewhere else, don't pay rent, our inspectors can't get into it all together. I am also pleased if this provision of Article 60 goes in this direction that if there is any indication that someone who is not registered in any space is staying or that if someone is renting and is not authorised to come, the inspectors may establish facts and, moreover, in the conduct of an inspector in which the subject is further forwarded to the proceedings. And it may be a good quality of this law which is not only left in the conduct of the inspector but also in certain provisions it speaks of which body is further handled and co-operated and that is very important, this cooperation between the MUP, the DORH, the Tax Administration, the Financial Inspectorate dealing with foreign exchanges and the team and these all inspectors who are here, it is very important and this law, if you carefully read it in certain articles, clearly defines and that is the quality of the provisions in this law. And given that I would not like to take a lot of time for my colleagues, I would like to say something else, and given the specificity of Croatia, and since I say that the continental part of Croatia is economically in the summer months and that the Adriatic part builds up economically, it is good that the law has laid down a provision that inspectors, by 30 days on the orders of their superiors, can leave without any special transfer or anything, and yet it is good that the law indicates that everything that belongs to him under the law, working legal relations and collective agreements will be paid. So that's what the law says, and that's good. Because if we're not going to put it in the law, then somebody could be smart tomorrow one way or the other. It may seem to someone that these provisions are too high, but I'm just trying to switch to summer months, so the reports from this town or that town off the coast are missing this, and I think this law is just ahead of it, and it just needs to be built into acts. And now more, yes, I'll leave it to my colleagues, Cellic and Križanić. So we believe on behalf of the HDZ Club that the law is good with the application to be with, from the regulation on organisation because it will have to be amended and the regulation on the formation of individual ministries and with all the rules begins immediately and that practically and the choice of the Chief State Inspector takes place as soon as possible so that he can practically coordinate some things because it says here that the State Inspector is bringing some acts. And if we're gonna wait for the appointment of a state inspector with... 4. and until he adopts those acts, if all of this is prepared together, it would be good, therefore, that those acts that he will bring to be prepared, and he will later coordinate if he wants to change something, but if the act is finished then it is easy to bring. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111036	Here you go, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111037	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Honorable Secretary of State with Associates. The National Reform Programme 2018 provides for more functional and efficient inspection operations, inter alia, to be carried out in the area of the Ministry of Health, as defined in Article 6. Final proposal of the State Inspectorate Act. Sanitary, i.e. border inspection, carry out inspection tasks or official controls in the field of the protection of human health, food safety, GMOs, water for human consumption, general use, tobacco and related products, noises, chemicals and biocidal products and non-ionising radiation. These tasks include carrying out inspection or official controls in order to protect public health interests in order to implement the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the EU. Article 35 defines sanitary inspectors, therefore, as well as a description of the tasks of a senior sanitary inspector, for which it takes at least 6 years of working experience on relevant jobs, of which at least 4 years on the most complex tasks of inspection, the tasks of a senior sanitary inspector and a multi-border sanitary inspector, for which it takes at least 4 years of working experience on relevant jobs, of which at least 2 years on the most complex tasks of inspection and the tasks of a sanitary inspector, i.e. a border health inspector, for which at least 1 year of work experience is required in the relevant jobs. The National Reform Programme lays down measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, and with regard to measures to unify economic inspections as a basis for the more effective conduct of inspection letters now carried out by the central authorities of the state administration in the specific case of inspection tasks carried out by the health ministry. The conclusion on the reduction of the number of agencies, institutions, funds, companies, institutes, foundations and other legal entities for the public authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2 August of this year for the purpose of implementing the National Reform Programme has been established that, as from 1 January, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Anti-doping and the Croatian Institute for Health and Safety at Work has taken over from the State Department for Radiological and Nuclear Security from the Ministry of Interior. Given that the tasks of inspection controls, i.e. official controls from the jurisdiction of the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health on 1 April, the State Inspectorate is required to amend the provisions of 23 laws, namely the laws on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, on cosmetic products, on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals, on water for human consumption, on genetically modified organisms, on chemicals, on the law concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, on live, on the protection against noise, on the restriction of use of tobacco and related products, on items of general use, on materials and articles coming into direct contact with food, on detergents, on protection against non-ionising radiation, on the use of tobacco products, on food and food products, on food and food products, on food and food products intended for food, on food, on food and food safety, on food products for food, on food and feed, on food and feed, on food, on food and feed, on food and feed, on food, on food, on food and food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food and on food, on food, on food, on food and on food and on food, on food and food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food and on food and on food and food, on food, on food, on food, on food, food and food and food, on food and food, food, on food, on food, on food, on food, on food and food, on food, on food, on food, food and food, on food, food, food and food and food and food, on food, on food, on food, food and food, food, on food, on food, on food, on food and food, food, food and food and food, food, food and food and food and food, on food for food, on food for food, food and food, food, food, food, food, food and food and food, food, food and food and food for food, food for food for food for food, food for food, food, food, food, food, food and food, food, food and food for food for food, So for both purposes and from this, it's all obvious that it's not about any sex for a particular person, no lex chair. Here is just one example of how integration and better coordination and efficiency in the cooperation of agricultural, veterinary and sanitary inspections will help to organise, plan and carry out official food control, which is extremely important for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111038	Thank you, too. Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111039	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Shuker spoke about the inspectorate in general, my colleague Celic spoke about his part of the law, allow me a few sentences about the laws relating to the establishment of the inspectorate. So this set of laws, agricultural laws, implements the government's decision of 8 months. '18. Mr. for the functional merger of agencies. This is all in direct connection with the establishment of the State Inspectorate, and the transfer of all inspections other than fisheries from the Ministry of Agriculture to the single inspection body of the State Inspectorate. Of course we hope this is the first step and the beginning of a serious reduction in total. Officials, not just the transition of public servants to civil servants. Of all the laws already adopted regarding the mergers of the agency and the agriculture services, however, it is necessary to say that the most important changes will take place at the Croatian Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, which will continue to operate as a Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food, while the Croatian Food Agency and the Croatian Agricultural Agency will stop acting as independent institutions. The amendments and additions to these laws of the Ministry of Agriculture, which we are discussing today, are direct consequences, the changes that bring together agricultural agencies and institutions and their involvement and alignment with the affairs of the State Inspectorate's inspection. It is therefore a matter of adapting and amending the Law on the State use of pesticides, the Law on Plant Health, the Law implementing the regulation on maximum levels of pesticide residues in food, the Law on Seeds and Fruit Material, the Law on Forests, the Food Law, the Food Hygiene Act, the Law on Veterinary and the Law on Agricultural Land. In all of these laws, there is a change in the structure and the detour of business, and in particular the inspection supervision that passes to the state inspectorate. I hope by uniting the inspections, that no longer happens that 5, 6 or 7 inspections in one day come to the same firm, as it has happened so far and not just different inspections, but the same inspections, from different offices. I hope, then, that coordination is in one place of the inspectorate. Implementing regulations, in particular relating to food control of animal origin and official controls under the Food and Hygiene Food Act, and the Veterinary Act, shall be laid down by the Ministry of Agriculture, which shall also be taken over by advisory questions in the field of forestry from the agricultural advisory service to be shut down. Furthermore, in accordance with the Food and Food Act, the Croatian Agency for Agriculture and Food shall be authorised to carry out scientific and professional tasks in the area of food and food safety and to define the implementation of official controls tasks by the State Inspector in accordance with the State Inspectorate Act. The Agency for Agriculture and Food will carry out activities to protect agricultural land, as well as to monitor the state of agricultural land, as a reference laboratory, and as a professional institution to monitor the consumer's risk assessment of pesticide residues. Finally, a set of laws on the merger of agencies in agriculture and the transfer of all inspections other than the fishing inspectorate in the state is aimed at subordination, vertical, decision-making system, and greater functionality and efficiency in the Ministry of Agriculture on the one hand, and at the inspectorate on the other hand, as well as a meaningful and functional inspection, and in no way the repressive apparatus of Mr. Minister, do not ever use that word again, because you come from the economy as I do, because the pollination, this little economy that remains would not even bring effects to anyone. Order of inspection yes, but no repression. With this kind of structure, it should be much more rational and cheaper. The HDZ Club will support these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111040	Thank you, too. Now it's my turn to go down a little bit, Mr. Boris Milosevic in front of the SDSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111041	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers and representatives of other resolutions. We have important reform law, which brings with it a lot of other laws, and therefore we have a very logical and united debate. My remarks will be the ones I was saying and in my first reading, I'll say something new, too. will be principled nature, and some concrete things. As far as principle is concerned, here we are, with this law, establishing and setting up a new state-run administrative organization, therefore, a new central body of the state administration and a special law. If we are already at the establishment of a new state administration body, I think that along with this number of laws, the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of the Ministrys of the Central Authority of State and other central authorities of the State Administration, because we are in fact setting up ministries, central state offices and state administrations, therefore, all of these state organisations, as well as this state administration, I think that the government will definitely have to refer to the procedure of supplementing that law, which, therefore, will be arranged in that part of the state inspectorate, even though we bring Lex sepcialis for it. Secondly, this law is a reform law, whatever anyone is saying and thinking about it, it is reforming, not because of the basic one new state body, but because all inspections, i.e. large no. We buy the inspection from a number of other resistors and put it under 1 cap. This was, in fact, the only practical way for me to say, from the hands of the other ministers, take inspections, but if we're going to ask if this is the right move, my personal thinking is that we should have transferred all inspection jobs to the offices of the state administration, so let's put it down to the offices of the state administration, but I think I'm one of the few people who thinks that way. About 10 years ago, I think, in 2006, the government then decided to actually go into this procedure to do inspection work, let other administrative actions be brought down to the Offices of State Administration, so they started with a working group and serious work. I don't know, I don't have that institutional memory, I don't have that information, I'm sorry there's no Mr. Shuker, he was a minister at the time, he might remember. There were then a number of expert research and a number of professional projects financed by the EU Funds at the time that they proposed, therefore, to go in this direction, and that is what our main Law, which regulates the work of the state administration, is the Law on the system of state administration, that these are actually the jobs that should be in the Offices of State Administration. That's what our strategy for public administration development is about, therefore, that the inspections should be at the State Administration Offices. The result would be that we free the ministry from the ballast of doing less complexity, that the ministries are exclusively engaged in making public policies, strategies, dealing with the making of the Law, and that all administrative procedures and all inspection tasks, so we would leave it to the Offices of State Administration and thus ensure, therefore, and two-stagely correct, two-stage settlement of the case, thus deciding that the ministries have no area units of establishment, but in practice the only solution that is now proposed to form the new Central Authority of State Administration, and here, in a specific case, we have 8 ministries, from Part-Circ 8 Ministries we have inspections, so even 17 inspections. I say, the reform of public administration in my opinion is the mother of a number of reforms, i.e. all reforms, and it is a continuing and planned need to be implemented. Here we have a pragmatic and practical move for me to understand. I've spoken to a number of ministers from a number of cabinets, from several governments, and in fact, I'm saying, this move to bring it down to the Offices of the State Administration, no one was inclined, while everyone was thinking that we could leave it to one of these body inspection jobs. Whether we will achieve a reduction in the fragmentation of public administration, that is what we all want, that is what the European Commission criticises in each report that our public administration is fragmented. I don't think we're going to make it completely successful, but what we're sure to achieve is that the state administration is going to work easier, that it's going to be easier for citizens to report some kind of irregularity or that they're going to know who's in charge, that they're going to know where the application is going, that it's not going to work between the resistors, as it's been in some inspection business where there's actually more resources actually controlled in the same area, and there were differences in nuances, then there were issues and conflicts of jurisdiction, and then the laws were changing, complemented, again, in practice, it was creating major problems. So it will certainly be avoided in this respect. What remains to be seen in practice in the conflict of jurisdiction should be seen, in fact, with the Customs Administration which has a number of mine same inspection powers, especially as regards, I mean the Law on Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activities. This body will certainly be competitive to say, to the Customs Authority, which, in my opinion, has been the most powerful part of the state apparatus, in my opinion, even stronger than the MUP, they are almost the Croatian FBI in broad jurisdiction, and even the possibility of carrying weapons have mobile units and very, very many people. What needs to be achieved with this now is better coordination between the inspections that will now be under one body and the logistics needs to be ensured, that every inspector has tools to work, that there are vehicles to the field, that there are means to mail, that there are, therefore, cell phones, that there are actually all, what I'm saying, that there's printing paper, that all the logistics that she often knew was missing because I say part of I'm familiar with that situation on the ground. The problem that needs to be overcome here, and to ensure logistics and coordination is to achieve that the chief of the inspection that is on the ground, for example in Zadar, that the boss who was in Zagreb, who has been in Zagreb so far, will now be in the inspectorate, so he really led the people on the ground to be equipped and to have a plan of work, to know at every moment where the inspector is, that there is no empty walk because I say, it was the pain of the old State Inspectorate, it was the pain of those inspectors when they went to the vault when the old State Inspectorate went out. What I'd like to say in the end, I won't be long, I noticed that some of my remarks were respected, I say, what I suggested was all constructive in terms of improving the legal text. For example, what is not respected, which I see, in the Law, therefore, I do not know market inspectors and sanitary inspectors, agricultural inspectors, in fact for all inspectors still in the legal text are the conditions they must have to do the inspector's work, so, write, I don't know, the expert prepares, writes the school of the year's experience internship, I don't think it's the matter of the law. I don't blame the current motionor of the resorient minister who put it into the law, I think that's it, it's drawn from the law that we're changing from the resolution laws which probably the resolutions insisted on, so why the resolutions insisted on, it's my only logic that they want to make it clear that the inspector who's doing this job meets these conditions, that he's competent, and it doesn't happen that someone, at some point, with the internal order rule changes those conditions, so that it happens that the inspector becomes someone who doesn't actually have a qualification, who isn't professional, and that there are errors in the work. It's my only logic, I'm saying it's a sign then that we don't have full confidence in the system and I hope that in the future once the law changes these things out, those things will move away. In any case, I support law-making, so what needs to be ensured is to ensure coordination, logistics, whether the new inspector will be effective, so we'll have to wait until he starts working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111042	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Tomislav Sagar will speak on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111043	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, distinguished representatives of the government of institutions, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to discuss briefly what concerns us as a club and representatives in the opposition or what bothers us in this bill. It is not in principle that the State Inspectorate is returned as an institution of the Republic of Croatia but rather a number of individual issues which will either be in its jurisdiction or which can be seen from such a bill. In fact, in the Republic of Croatia it is very important that we define our institutions so that they really have the role they need to play and that they do not be so devastated, it is very dangerous. We were in these discussions this morning, mostly words, that the whole law was written for one man. It seems to me that the main focus or the main backbone, if we could discuss Article 78 in which it writes very clearly that the State Inspectorate's work programme is being carried out by the Chief State Inspector, if I have seen it well. And the only thing that bothers me in that part now is that he brings the work programme with whom he brings it, to whom he presents it, except, of course, his subordinates, it would be good to mention the Government and that the government approves the act, if that's the case, then that's okay, but if I didn't, if I didn't get it wrong, then that's not the problem. So, if the government approves this work programme then it makes sense and, in fact, in that sense, it may not, apart from the political dimension, be so crucial who will be the Chief State Inspector if that programme that the Government will approve is going to implement. But now we come to a different area, which is the area of the state inspectorate's work on applications, so not only by the programme, but by what happens in the course of work, because if we observe the state inspectorate, we can say that it has four aspects. First, perhaps the most important protection of the rights of citizens, whether citizens are using services, certain works or buying certain goods, and that state inspectorate must be in the service of citizens to protect them from, above all, the poorer quality of products which, for example, they buy, to all the serious things that can cause epidemics, diseases, and all the negative things that can appear in society. And there are state inspectors and inspectors of the state inspectorate who have or should have great powers. On the other hand, there are entrepreneurs, so what we have is an objection to the Republic of Croatia and when it was a state inspectorate, so when it's abolished, maybe we'll have tomorrow, that the inspectors are suffocating entrepreneurship by their actions. In fact, they are so burdened by entrepreneurs, especially craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that it is unsustainable to them. Let me read you the report from an inspector, but before I point out, it's about 50 limes, how much a photocopy fee is charged, it's about a photographer, the inspector came to him, he gave him to copy a particular document, and this one didn't give him an account. It states this, the level of fines of 10.000 kuna per photographer is explained, when determining the level of fines this body has taken into account in particular as difficult circumstances that, in a specific case, it is a matter of committing part of the infringements of an exceptional and obvious social danger directly undermining the stability and fundamental meaning of the arrangement of the tax system with direct social harmful contexts for the stability of the total tax system of the Republic of Croatia. In view of the fact that the fiscalisation of cash and the rules governing the issuing of accounts of institutes whose infringements are indisputable and based on the operation of traffic, the measure in question deserves the most difficult form of social judgment, while it is also undeniable that the offence in the field of fiscalisation as a criminal act is directly directed at the tax ejaculation of broader scales of anti-legal treatment with obvious social adverse consequences, which directly and deeply undermines the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the tax system as a whole, the financial stability of the whole state and endangers the financing of public needs, and thus the functioning of society as a whole. My colleagues and colleagues, the representatives of the government this is not good, this is deeply wrong, it is a craftsman if he really undermines the legal order of the Republic of Croatia fiscal stability, after all that is happening in this society here I will just mention the Borg group where people have drawn millions, after all that is happening, this is how it goes towards the entrepreneur. And now, I'm sorry that there are no colleagues of Shucker, not to be pollemisated with him because it's not the subject now, but just to point out one other thing, he mentions Article 70 where he enters, he approves it to enter the premises, to see who is tax evasion. However, we institutions have not done their jobs for many years. Take the agricultural inspector, you have rents of agricultural land that are then leased. A farm inspector can't do anything about it, why? Because the IRS doesn't do anything, and this is what my colleague Shucker said, so you don't have to go into a home, so the IRS just let him see the entrance, the way out of the account, everything that's needed in the course of the money, and everything will be clear to them. If someone rents on black, then where does he get the money? And what about the IRS, what are they doing? And for that I return again, Minister, I beg you, Article 56(4), do not enter homes. Maybe it's wrong, you don't have the opening act, I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know why there's a law somewhere and there's nowhere to be found, you haven't defined what home is, which is the construction site, the second law, the construction law defines what a construction site is. So Pero Peric will paint the room, Jure Juric lives next door, is angry with Peru Perić, will call the inspection to report him, that this thing works, that his home is a construction site and then the inspector will enter his home. Those aren't good messages. This Regulation shall enter The constitution is clear “Home Is Invulnerable, ” let someone try to enter a home in America without a court order. I beg you, consider it. I will certainly see, I will amend, if not, to the Constitutional Court and let him make a decision on the constitutionality of it, it is unacceptable for me. The third thing that is mentioned here, so I'm talking about citizens entrepreneurs are themselves inspectors, full support of them in their education and their training and the material conditions that they need to achieve, without that people won't be able to work. Inspectors must have a future representative institution, they must have a certain capacity and, of course, the resources they work with, we have seen it here on a number of occasions from reports and various other bodies how, including these individual members, watch out for the State's Attorney's office, so not the Inspector, the state's attorneys go on the eyewitnesses of cars over the age of 20 and then come to people who have significant financial resources, investigate them, it's unacceptable. The state must have its reputation among the citizens, and that's how I'm going to express myself. And in the end, what might be the most important thing about this law right now, as we can see from this perspective, is the question of the profession. We are withdrawing the inspectors from the ministries, in some areas we do not touch it, but let's say, I noticed that the Department of Veterinary Affairs, which in the Ministry of Agriculture, has been highly insinuating this way because they feel that this is what they do, that the profession is being devased, that veterinary inspectors are being extracted from the Ministry itself, which is responsible for the veterinary, and all those veterinary authorities, so I realized it, as they object, may be seized from their powers so far, or they will be annulled. So the issue of the profession is very important and it should not happen that the inspectors at the State Inspectorate are separated from the profession, they must be connected, the ministries, I am glad that here, my colleague Batinic from the bench said that the government will approve the programme, so the ministries continue, it does not mean now if the inspectors leave the ministry that the ministry ceases its powers. Let them be connected, let them continue to enable and, of course, you as the State Inspectorate enables continuous improvement and that people are in line with the progress of the profession because we see that here some inspectors are dealing with very serious problems, these are knowledge that are not so simple and ultimately, they can have certain financial implications. I asked you last time, and again I'll repeat, here, we had a pressure vessel agency, that agency has been converted into D.O., mostly, I forgot the name of the company that is the founder of D.O., it might just be called Pressure Equipment, I think, is it, and during Minister Dalic's liberalized period, so other people who can on that market appear, other legal persons who can act on that market, and that was even, at first there was resistance, then it turned out that it was good because the costs for entrepreneurs who have to obtain these certificates have been reduced, but we need to see then, you see there is a conflict between professions, you should ask the profession what to do, how to do, and now these inspectors of the vessel under pressure how they will act, how they will actually continue only the equipment under the influence. And finally to conclude this debate, I ask you to consider this Article 56(4), or that perhaps, the question now, there is not much until the end of the debate, can at least be inserted, if you can't get rid of this item 4, to define what is then a site within the meaning of this law, because if the site is said, in the broadest sense, every procedure you can do in the household because it says in the Building Act that it's maintenance can also be window cleaning, so there's no confusion because in that blackest scenario as people say, someone will be resented for either political or some other reason, so we'll call the inspector. It is not a good message and therefore that item is unacceptable and ultimately I am the law... Acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111044	Thank you very much. He asked for Minister Darko Horvat's word. He's entitled to five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111045	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Parliamentary MPs, MPs. Dear Mr. Žagar, in two minutes three brief reviews, I will also take advantage of the opportunity and the payphone to say to the honourable Assembly representative, Mr. Milosevic, even though he is not there, that, in parallel with the amendments and additions, the new State Inspectorate Act, and with amendments and additions to other laws which either assume or transform the power of this Act. The Assembly procedure was also sent by the Law on the Establishment and Circular of the Ministrys and other Central Authorities of the State Administration, which will, in fact, be established by the State Inspectorate and only by the Presidency of the General Assembly, where this Law will be included in the agenda, in plenary debate, so that, in parallel with the adoption of the Law on State Inspectorate, I hope that the debate will pass, and other laws that coordinate with the Law on State Inspectorate, as well as the Law on the establishment and the work of the Ministry of the Central Authorities of the State Administration will be adopted in order to formally and legally bring all of this into line. Two short lines and two of your suggestions that we're arguing about, and I'm sure we solved them with the concept of the law. Will the inspectors separate or separate from the profession? Believe me, they won't, because when I repeat the same thing I read when the distinguished parliamentary representative Mrak Taritaš asked the question in one different way or in a different way, so I will say only one thing, so, again, to Mr Milosevic whether or not it was meant to be written in the Law or not for me, you answered the question, so you think that the inspector must not separate himself from the profession and therefore we, as you do, feel it necessary to specify that, for example, the work of a senior building inspector or specialist can be performed by a person who, apart from the law of established conditions for admission to the state service, has completed pre-graduate, graduate, university study or an integrated undergraduate, university, university study of construction, architecture, urbanism, geotechnics etc. So, there is a synergy of inspectors and professions because, on that element of formal education and practical work already done or done, these inspectors will not be able to be chosen at random or by chance, but perhaps too strict conditions that we have introduced will have to be met at the time when they will be deployed to such jobs. I'm going to read another sentence that you've been doing well, but it's got a decimal point, it's got a sequel. So, in art. In the 60th, when we talk about an apartment search request, so with the few sentences you've been able to read and which you've interpreted here, behind which point I'm talking about today, the inspector will write nicely, if there is a risk of delay, he'll ask the competent criminal procedure to issue a written order after an emergency procedure. So, it won't be possible to get into the apartment as requested, but if the identifier that the gray economy or unregistered activity is happening, we edit and prescribe, and that's what fellow Schucker did well, the correlation and co-operation of state institutions that will have to be agreed on in haste and which will then produce the legitimate entry into that home or apartment when necessary. We're in. 59. What has not been done so far, we have introduced one provision that also suggests to the inspector what to do, therefore, that the start of inspection and inspector may inform the responsible person and we would like it to be a valid method at the time when that notification will not interfere or affect the results of that inspection surveillance, and you will agree with me to announce inspection surveillance on a large open construction site does not make any sense because when such intervention prejudges several days before, all of this construction site can be arranged in a completely different way, but is arranged in that day-to-day construction regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111046	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111047	Thank you. Dear Minister, my accent was on the article. The 56th century is about a building inspector. The building inspector may collect personal and other data in the home of a person without prior consent if home is a construction site. That's a question to me. Another thing I forgot in the debate, when we were at the last meeting with the Croats outside the country, I am a member of the Committee, a representative of the Croats from Serbia asked if you in the Republic have any body that helps entrepreneurs with advice on what it is they have to meet, what are the minimum conditions in order not to have problems with the inspector. I couldn't answer him. He asked if it was a revision, I said I don't know, because the audit people can't afford, we're talking about a commercial audit to pay. As we have a preventive technical inspection of the vehicle so that I can invite that inspector to say what the conditions are, which he must meet in order not to come into a position to be punished. That's something to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111048	Thank you, and this whole entrance to the apartment thing might be worth an explanation, Mr. Secretary, this whole no court order thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111049	So, although it's not necessary, but I'll read you an article. 34. The Constitution of the In the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, under the terms of the Constitution, the search of homes, apartments, houses and other spaces which can be a home to the search for people, things and evidence in a criminal sense. So, even with the advice of legal experts, we are not contradictory by implementing a point in the State Inspectorate Act. 34. The Constitution, therefore, has been held twice, contacted by the profession, legal experts, the Committee on the Legislatives of this House had no controversy, any other suggestions and we believe that we are not violating the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111050	Let's move on. Mr. Milorad Batinić, the club of representatives of the HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111051	Thank you, Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, we at the HNS Club supported in the first reading of the Law. We had certain objections, we made some of our thoughts. Most of the comments were respected as were those made by some, some other clubs suggested. In fact, it is very signifying and interesting that a law which, according to us in the HNS, is more technical law in terms of the formation of a new organisation, is very precise and detailedly prescribed what who does and what conditions, can cause such political beings as it was at the very beginning. But to be honest with me today is not clear and I don't have that information who the state inspector will be, however, but whoever has the law and appoints it the government, and I hope that by the basis of that law, it will primarily have and, and is, the official, that it will carry out this work to the satisfaction of all citizens. But I'd start with one purely out of practice, which is the role of inspectors, state inspectors, meaning everyone from top to bottom, in general. Monitoring the implementation and application of the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament. It's necessary and by that, it makes sense to me because there were some obstacles as to why the Government is the one who appoints, etc., so the government is the executive body. But in our first reading, we stressed and I will now repeat because I consider it an extremely important assumption that not only would this law be made but that the State Inspectorate in general and would be functional and operational and just dedicated to monitoring the implementation and application of the positive regulations of the Republic of Croatia, these are salaries. I'll repeat what I was saying in my first reading. Here, just let me, from one article, I believe it's true, no one has denied it, not even in the first reading I haven't heard from you, so the inspector, the area of working relationships protection at work, means protection inspector, if he is single and lives in Zagreb working for a salary net of 5500 kuna. The average salary in the Republic of Croatia, I think, is 6200 kuna. Of course, it can't be regulated by law, there are other laws, there's still going on maybe some journals that belong to state officials and the state inspector himself, but I think that the success of the work of state inspectors needs law, need sublegal acts, means structure but also the stimulation itself. In addition to all that has been said, additional education, because let us not forget and interfere with the mind, I speak from experience as a local leader of how much the law has changed, changed since 2013 by applying or implementing regulations, EU regulations and all these inspectors, of course, each in their own area, each in its own domain must follow, somewhere more, somewhere less. So from organising education, from creating assumptions, primarily and technical nature, I speak out of practice, meaning mobility, their mobility today is questionable. In particular, we had the basis of the Law on the Communist Economy to regulate municipal directors which is limited and of course we informed the inspector and the inspector couldn't come, he simply had no vehicle available, so technical assumptions were not created that he could come, react. So this law is very difficult. However, if we go to such a law to organize ourselves that we are reading it positively from the organization, setting up a pyramid from the picturesquely speaking of Zagreb to the regional offices but we must first of all, the responsibility will be the state inspector but the primary responsibility of the government, so I am saying it is to create technical assumptions that the system will be functional. What I would also like to say, I missed, to be honest in my first reading. This may not be the subject of this law, perhaps it could be arranged, although certain laws, the relationship means local self-government, cooperation with inspectorates. Covering certain responsibilities. So the part-round local self-government from the communal directorship that's been acting, I don't think we have any formal relationship with the inspectors anywhere by seven or eight laws. The procedure of municipal redistribution goes to a certain level and simply ends here, the role of inspectors now begins, whether it is about environmental protection, nature protection, building inspector, veterinary inspector. I believe that this can be arranged by the Internal Order Regulation precisely that cooperation. I have to admit that at this point I can't say, express satisfaction in practice that we're satisfied with the cooperation now, but that's something that can be fixed primarily for reasons, the communal director has to report illegal construction, we send treatment to a certain level to the inspector, then we're sick. In return, he is not obliged to report, he is not obliged to report to the head of the management department, nor the mayor, nor the mayor, nor write to him anywhere in the law; I find that wrong, completely wrong. And after that, you send in rushes, it's been three months, it's been six months, there's no reaction, we send in rushes, and then one, one, a negative fit bee, and as you worry, it's not you who's controlling me, I agree, we're not, but as a public authority of the municipalities, the city, the county is completely irrelevant if we've officially acted on the basis of the law, regardless of whether it's a building inspection, nature protection, the environment, to be informed. Because it's working in the area of a certain administrative unit of local self-government, where we are absolutely responsible for everything that's been done. We are primarily responsible for our citizens, and I also expect the Internal Order to prescribe that inspection services are in the part that is believed to be equally responsible to citizens for their actions. Namely, why am I saying that? We also have certain reports of citizens, specifically the border neighbor has illegally made a warning to the municipal director, the communal director exits, but also one but we also file a complaint, but this neighbor who is considered damaged also gives the application. There's no feedback. Why am I saying that? The principal vertical is set up in a government way, the parliament passed the law, the government appoints a state inspector who naturally coordinates the work programme with the government does not say that pride, but it simply doesn't need to be written, it implies it is responsible for implementing the law. So unless there's going to be cooperation, unless there's feedback, which I think is necessary, of course, there's probably objective limitations, as well as protection of personal data, and I don't now, but unless there's generally one feedback, I think it's bad. And I don't think it's legal for some laws to stop it. The fact is also in certain laws of meaning where the conduct of the body of local self-government is not a second step but cannot be completely closed so the inspection occurs, nowhere in that law does it say that the inspection is obliged to respond, but would like it to become a practice, but would like it to become a practice, because citizens are asking us. They ask the communal director, they ask the heads of the administrative departments, they ask at the end of the head and I can tell then here's a complaint to the state inspector in Zagreb, he's named government, the Prime Minister is guilty of you, the council is just as guilty of passing such a law. Namely, I'm trying to bring you closer to a very simple logic and way of thinking which, I think, would be very difficult to cover with these adjustments, of course, with the very text of the law itself, but it would be primarily of quality. The second thing, it's very important to carry out any kind of inspection work whether it's preventive surveillance, whether it's about monitoring with targeted certain elements, trust. Trust is the key. So a citizen must trust that inspector and protect him in the final, say, trade, that he is protected from the lawless cutting of his private forest even though he is obliged to guard it, but what that story ends here. It means that he would have confidence that he could report freely that he would not be revealed to anyone who was reported, so trust must be built from a lower level to a higher level. I trust the Ministers that these regulations and on the internal order, that you will succeed by a certain deadline, just so that you do not feel this organisational change of organization functioning of the State Inspectorate. Furthermore, I will repeat what we consider to be good, we pointed out in the debate, the principles of the opportunite because I think more is gained on credibility, on the quality of work and on trust if it goes and preventively into some procedures. There have been many colleagues who have spoken primarily about it, I say we have disturbed the mind of taking over certain directives, but we are simply changing the paradigm of thinking taking over some principles, some practice that has not been available to us so far, it is simply our side. In particular, I will start from the smallest though most stable craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, down to the big businesses, but also the most vulnerable ones, so here I am glad that you are in your domain of the Ministry of Economy which, even from your own experience, and you are running a resort that knows very well the economic opportunities they are. I won't be long. The HNS Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111052	Thank you, Mr. Batinic, I've missed the word that you speak for the CNS before, but it's clear that you speak for the CNS. I missed a word at the beginning, sorry. Mr Davor Vlaovic, in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111053	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Club here are several of our views regarding the State Inspectorate Act. In this proposal of the Law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the adoption of this Act create such an environment that will enable the strengthening of competitiveness and the economy, the improvement of the business environment, the unification of economic inspections, address the existing problem identified by entrepreneurs in the activities of trade, catering, tourism and other service activities, and aims to further relieve entrepreneurs of the costs of excessive red tape, create an active approach to inspection in the control of business of economic operators and a number of other improvements. And of course it's a good approach for me and for us from the HSS. Because what we have today is just not good. We also have a letter from the representatives of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, and we have received a series of presentations from our family farms, which say that this system where we have 17 different inspections in 8 different ministries, created such pressure on the ground that it is simply unsustainable. Some craftsmen say that in one month they had about 20 different inspection controls, they simply say they can't do their job, but would have to hire a man who would only prepare documentation for different types of inspections and answer the same. It simply hindered their activity, created one tension, and it was also a trigger for many why many twists were closed. And that is why it is certainly a good approach to make one more quality coverage of inspection supervision and that, there, you should make sure that these craftsmen, entrepreneurs, family farms, are in a certain way and the chance of the Croatian economy and that you should give them a chance to breathe. With the kind of approach that this inspection model was, it's just unsustainable. And it culminated in the last month, two days, which I was already talking about here, where at agricultural fairs, various events organised by the Associations, and the municipalities, and the Cities, a group of inspectors from different Ministries, Customs, police simply break down at such a single ham fair in Tinjan or olive oil in Vodnjan, or at a fair of entrepreneurs and craftsmen in Slavonski Brod, and here it happened yesterday and in Zagreb, at the Advent in Zagreb. So don't train the strictness of those little people, on those craftsmen who barely survive the month after month, and that's why many close turns. And once again, Mr. Minister, I need you to think about spreading the pausal model to those twists where it could be, that do occasionally certain jobs or do certain seasons, and so on, and so on, I think that this group of cobwebs might still expand, and that would contribute to some of the turns that are closed, re-open and that people are self-employed. And I'm sure that's where they need to find models to help them with that. Of course, you need to make sure that when the inspection comes out on the ground, it also works educationally, and that it enables the craftsman and the entrepreneur to remove irregularities in a certain period of time, and that's certainly a good approach, because it's inconceivable for a craftsman to come and say here I had to come back again. So why me? Well, like, it's pretty neat with you, you're doing it, and I have to go out in the field, I have to have a number of dates, and while I'm here, let me write you some punishment, don't be angry, to justify my existence. So this evaluation of the impact of the inspector and their effectiveness on the ground cannot be just through the amount of money charged. That's not the purpose of the inspection, the inspectorate, and today it's happening on the ground. And one more thing, you said it would be one real, selective approach. Today is one big mistrust in inspections, because one impression that it's a non-selective approach, that one is constantly coming to one and the other is never going. Or if it's going, it gets cold and there's no punishment. And then there's no equality on the market, because some are more competitive because they work illegally and don't pay the fines. And the best example is the business that was within Agrokor, where the question was ever given by some inspection, and if it was, what they found and what they charged, because we see how it was, that it only reacted when international institutions reacted, that the financial reports were faked, that the bonds were issued without cover. And if one craftsman in Novi Gradiška or Županja issued only one financial document without cover, it would be closed tomorrow, so it is possible that it lasted for years, and here for one day, or for one kuna in the register a single craft closes in the middle of the tourist season when tourists come for the announced lunch. Such mistakes must not be done and it must be changed practice and I believe that through the work plan of the State Inspectorate, such practice will be omitted and that this will be a more quality approach and will be taken care of and such a way of working that will not violate the possibility of action and work of crafts, the creation of an economic climate, and so on, because we are in front of a normised state, too often changing the laws, and it is impossible for our small craftsmen to follow it, and therefore it is good to introduce this educational measure, and to have a safe one approach to that entrepreneur and to give him the chance to remove the irregularity, and to have, to regain trust in the inspection. And also when we talk about inspections, it is already said here, it is necessary by 01.04. to create all technical assumptions and conditions, and one of the important things is, it is foreseen by the state budget, and their wages, and their technical, material and technical conditions for work. It is already said here, and I will repeat, these wages are too small in relation to their responsibilities on the economic market, and surely he cannot do his job in quality if he is underpaid and dissatisfied with his salary and there should be solutions to how and to stimulate them to do their job in quality. I would say again here, the replica we had this morning, which is that, in the context of taking over inspections from the Ministry of Agriculture, is an abandoned fishing inspection, according to us and by the people who are in that branch, and here, we have received letters from them from the field, it would be good, that the fishing inspection enters the state inspectorate even though the European regulations and European practices do not require us, it is left to the members to decide for themselves, but because of this coordinated work and for the sake of quality access, we think it is a good thing that the fishing inspection goes to the state inspectorate. This is a suggestion from the people of that branch, and it would certainly contribute to further transparency of the work of the state inspectorate, or not to be what the colleague said, this morning in a blurry hunt, because there is also a crossover of fish on black, and there is happening that some innkeepers do not have bills for purchased fish, and those who regularly become by account cannot place their fish. And surely that with one common approach, more inspections and inspectors would contribute to the more transparent work and success of our fishermen, both freshwater and marine, and not to allow tuna to come from Japan, and it is essentially from Croatia. Speaking of which, I want here to re-emphasis the problem, the excessive import of food and food products into the Republic of Croatia. And our answers to our requests, that since this is an EU product, as such they must accept their certificates and everything else, and then it happens to us that on the shelves in the trade chains you have 90% of the imported goods, and the Croatian products are not, and these products from the EU, are not the qualities that have been declared and this has been demonstrated by our MEP, that some products that are for the Croatian market do not correspond to the quality that this same product has in Germany or Austria and therefore I ask that the state inspectorate put this into the work plan and activity plan and that more control on the shelves of the commercial houses and import products, and that in this way help and protect domestic production, and I think that one step can be done in this direction, because in some product we have received the answer here that there was one or five controls on these same import products annually. It's too small and we can't agree with that, as long as this situation is on the shelves of the shopping houses. I'd like to mention here the problem of our O.P.G. precisely because of the many amendments to the law, because they simply can't follow it. And there is a great lever in their understanding that they have to satisfy everything in order to achieve both direct payments and the part where they can report for rural development competitions, by joining advisory forestry services with the Ministry of Agriculture, and also by the Croatian Agricultural Agency, I think that we have taken a step backwards, that it is one ride into reverse, and that it will certainly not help our OPGs and it will certainly be harder for the agricultural inspectors, veterinary inspectors, to come to these OPGs and see that they have not satisfied what the law requires and they themselves couldn't know and didn't have anyone to tell them. And I don't think that's a good way to go, and that we should have listened to our proposals to strengthen the agricultural advisory forestry service and the Croatian Agricultural Agency, and we also had a debate less than a year ago, here in the assembly, where we praised this service and asked for more adequate access to these agencies and to strengthen them as it is in Bavaria or Austria, and we took a step backwards. Also when it comes to amendments to the laws relating to agricultural land, the example is just over a year more precisely 21.9.2017. passed a law on agricultural land. That's when I said you'd be happy if you made it to St. Matije 21.9.2018. this procedure for the adoption of new laws and programmes for the availability of state agricultural land was almost... to discuss the first tenders and that our OPG can reach state agricultural land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, as far as I have information, very little or almost no new tender has been called, our OPG especially cattlemen who don't have enough land can't get to that land because the tenders aren't scheduled. And it will certainly be one of the first and bigger inspection tasks to determine what units of local self-government have made available programmes, whether they have opened tenders and whether they have implemented them in accordance with the law, and I am afraid that the beginning of the work of inspectorates is only 1.4 per year, while all other regulations and regulations are passed and that we will lose 2019. And there's already been a speech here regarding the construction inspection. We are in contact with people who are employees of construction inspection, they have written something to us and they say if the purpose of the law is to unite inspection jobs, related to trade, hospitality, tourism and other service activities, then simply building inspectors can't see and think they shouldn't be there because they don't do that kind of economic surveillance. And it certainly won't decrease with that as the goal was to reduce bureaucratic pressure, to... entities if there is a construction inspection, and if so, then why not all inspectors related to the building are already mentioned here from the Ministry of Culture and related to this part of the coastal, i.e. the economic fishing band. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're illogical and I'd like the minister to explain why, if he's already put a construction inspection here, and they're the most, why they're here because they're not doing this kind of economic surveillance on tourism catering and other service activities. And if it is, why didn't all these others be in one place. In general, we needed a new approach in inspection and we should certainly reduce this tax inspection pressure on craftsmen and entrepreneurs, especially those small ones that I mentioned not to train strictness on them, and I would like to see in the reports in the implementation of the State Inspectorate's work plan, which, during the year, has been supervised, which has been identified and where it was most wrong, and I would also like for inspectors who are employed in the State Inspectorate to have better quality conditions for work and higher wages and to be evenly distributed along the Republic, not only in Zagreb and the wider surroundings, but also to have jobs in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111054	Thank you very much. We move on to individual debates, it's Mr. Miranda Mrsic's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. - Mrs. Crescent. Anka Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111055	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Ministers, Associates, State Secretary from other ministries, colleagues and colleagues. So, the debate is in the second reading, the State Inspectorate Act. It is important to highlight a few things, the first thing that remains for me as one of the important things and of course the building inspections will also touch, why in the bill of law the decision that the state inspector responds directly to the prime minister, in other words, we will have a situation that the Chief State Inspector will have the status of Deputy Prime Minister. Why is that decision? Why did she decide to do that? This response through and through replicas and through debate has not been obtained, which is, of course, the more so, the Minister of Economy is the one in whose portfolio he is prepared, from which the law went into debate and which defends me, and we will, in that sense, give the amendment, that the Chief State Inspector, therefore, those who will be led by the State Inspectorate, responds to the Vice-President of the Government who is in charge of the economy because it seems to us to be incomparably better, more operational and everything else. Which is the point, so you always kind of need to look for a sense of why it decided to go to the State Inspectorate. I am one of those who really thinks that no law is carved into stone, that every law should be looked at in a way that should give it life, that it should be given the opportunity to have, to see certain results. Also, I can honestly say that it wasn't exactly the best decision when the State Inspectorate decided to disbanded because we decided to solve one mess with another. What we have in us is characteristics, which is that we are very much in favour of form and option, but that people are the least important to us. People are extremely important, it is important that our fellow citizens who really need to receive the appropriate gesture so that they can make their remarks, that they can make their complaint and that they can get an answer. But what we all need together to advocate, that we change the role that inspection in our society means. What's happening all the time when you're talking about any inspector, every inspector is experiencing, there's been there, I've remembered for a long time, there's even been some humorous series of days ago that, there was one inspector and then there was all the bad sides. The role of inspector is extremely important, extremely important. It is therefore important, on the one hand, that an inspector should not always be seen as a repressive body. When he comes anywhere not to be in principle, the attitude has come to punish me and that's something we have to change. It's not simple. That's hard. It's hard for you in a situation if your economy is moving forward, then you're very hard to get quality people, so people who are from the profession, who have experience with inspection because you can never offer nearly the same pay as they can get in the real sector. I always say that to the examples I best deal with and the ones I know best. So when the economy grows, it also grows in the building, so more people build, when they build more, of course there are more things that shouldn't be there, but then it happens to you that the terrain, that outside entrepreneurs offer the salary that you can never offer. You need to get someone who's professional, someone who knows his job, you have to pay him properly, you can't pay him properly, and they're leaving. I can tell you firsthand that there was an open tender, inspectors working in the building area had an ever-increasing salary, so for the same workplace there was always 1% higher salary on the inspector's allowance and everything else. We knew it was the Ministry that no one would call you in the competition. You're simply repeating the contests and no one's answering, then you're starting to get a recession period, then people actually call you, you train him there to do it, get out of the recession, and he goes to you. So that's a question that's not very simple, which is difficult, which is complicated, which we have to take care of, and we need to see to it that this job has to be adequately paid. I can't miss an opportunity, I won't say every time anyone talks about their portfolio, then talks about it, but there's a specific difference, when it comes to building inspection, I won't say that it's different from all the others, so all the inspections have in one part the same task and the same story, in the construction inspection you have another part that's special and it's gone to you, so that deals with the execution. That means when you decide to crash somewhere, don't crash it, so you have a contractor who does it for you, I guess now it's about 5 companies that do it, but these are situations that aren't simple, situations that are difficult. And when it comes to this, it should be brought into a situation that is not allowed, that you are destroying, that is, that the house is under the roof. What's the role of inspection and construction is that the inspection works when someone starts building in the ground for free, at the beginning, at the beginning, because then it's the least damage. These pictures of you moving out, furniture and people and destroying them are pictures that Croatia should never go to the world again because they show our bad picture. One time I was on some kind of counseling and a man answered and he said that my illegal construction was your fault, he showed us, now we say, because you didn't do the job and it's really a part of the role and we have to make it clear that part of this huge amount of illegal construction is the wrong state because she didn't do her job. Inspectors have to do their job at the time of the least damage. Of course we can see it at home. It's the best way to show up at the building. It means when someone starts working. My advice has always been and I think it would be good, sometimes a long time ago when I started working another time, then you had scouts. These were colleagues who had a medium-sized expert gear called scouts, their task was to pass the field in the morning, to come in the second morning, to say where they saw something being done, to immediately check who had the permits and those who did not have permission went out immediately. It's one way to work. But what we need to take care of is in step two, and I think there's a second step now, and that's quality. As we take care of the quality of food products, as we take care of the quality of certain other things, we must take care of the quality of construction. The painting that passed into the world and this painting that passed through from Italy when the one viaduct came down talking about unquality construction, we have not had it in Croatia fortunately until now. But what we're experiencing as inspectors is only tied up when we're talking about the construction of illegal construction is just one small segment, a role, and it's important to control the quality of construction. What am I trying to tell you? So, the inspector has to be on the ground, the inspector needs to know what's going on on the ground, the inspector has to be out there all the time, he's got to act at the moment when the least damage to everyone, but what our inspections need to do is, they need to take care of quality, food quality, quality of service, quality of construction, that's what's the step forward. For this they must be double-educated, on the one hand they must be well educated, related to the process, making a solution, having the possibility of making a quick solution, having the possibility of being operational and on the other hand they must be professional. And for parts for which they are not professional enough because of course there are no more renaissance experts who are professional for all they need to know who they're going to hire. The question is the moment when climate change will activate more slides in Croatia because it is simply inevitable. With these rinks, we will indeed have different infrastructure-related problems, and there will be the role and importance of inspectors. Imagine an inspector who needs to go outside and establish himself because someone let the water out of the water pipe and activated the rink and damaged someone. So the role and importance of the inspector is extremely important and important.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111056	Thank you. A few replicas. The first replica is Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111057	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Mark Taritash, since you were a minister, I agree with you when we talk about a order that must be introduced and you say well at the beginning immediately. But look, on the other hand, we need to relax a little bit, you see every decent family in Slavonia must have an axe, it must have, now a cauldron for brandy more or less, now because of these taxes are getting less and less but also a mixer for concrete. The inspector has to tell the difference between what's important and what's not important. If we just go with a press like that, that inspectors just lurk when someone pulls out a mixer and goes to work, it won't end well. A little and the spirit of this people and traditions should be respected and really distinguish between the things where the state budget is being damaged, where competition in entrepreneurship collapses, in construction but not on the back of those poorest who sometimes have to do something around their own house.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111058	Thank you. Answer, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111059	There's one fundamental problem, and that's that when you bring in some new regulations and you bring in some sublegal acts, then you should follow it all together and media. I'm sure very few people know that there's a rule about simple work that isn't needed, something that doesn't need location or construction, and something that needs a project. That very little of our fellow citizens, when they ask me then I say, let's say for help, on a facility up to 50 square meters, you have to have a project and report the beginning of the works. No more local or building permit required. That's the point, the point is, you can draw a line behind it but you need to relax the regulations. And it's not all about permission, and you don't have to send everything on permission because then, of course, every time it comes and this list of 22 papers says no. But that's why you have to, and that's why this institute reporting the beginning of the works is good, let's say for all the auxiliary facilities up to 50 squares we don't need a license.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111060	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111061	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Parliamentarian Dark Taritash, the question is what I said in my debate, and here I want to hear your opinion as to whether it is necessary for the construction inspection to go to the State Inspectorate. Because this law stipulates that joint inspection supervision of those economic operators engaged in trade, catering, tourism and service activities. The opinion is that here are colleagues working in the Building Inspectorate that it is not necessary for them to go to this State Inspectorate, that they do not have this economic aspect in their actions and that it is not clearly explained and here I expect the Minister in the final address to respond to why the construction inspection is also entering the State Inspectorate because the fact is that these are special types of jobs that they are also doing surveillance when the building starts and several times within the framework of the construction process, etc., and do not work on the supervision of economic activities, type of tourism, catering and service activities, so here is your opinion. Thank you. [[Intruder Radin: Time, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111062	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111063	Thank you very much, Vice President. My position is absolutely clear. The building inspection shouldn't go to the State Inspectorate. In the debate when it was in the first reading, since it was such a proposal and I assumed that everyone was behind it and my debate was if it had to go like that, then so. And I trusted the authority of Mr. Branko Bačić, who discussed it in a way that was not good to go and I expected let's go perhaps indeed and the experience that he had as a colleague as a minister will listen to him so the construction inspection won't go to that great inspectorate. That's not good. It's just not a good solution, it's a solution for everyone we know about, we know it's not good. And I and in the debate when I was talking, I said that for some processes, something was clear to me that it was in one place, but this was left unsolved to the end again, and that in no way guarantees us, in any way that we would have a greater order in the space that we wanted to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111064	Mr. Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111065	Dear colleagues... Everywhere I was, I was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To Nepal, I've never heard the notion of illegal construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why in Canada, some people in Canada would put in a nuthouse to hear that notion and you're all here changing for 20 years, 30 years, and the same mantra why you didn't create an effective surveillance system. And I disagree with Mr. Minister, without a trained people, without resources, without the synergy of the ministries and the state of these inspectors, nothing will happen. That's why Split looks like... There's the most beautiful city on the Adriatic, and there's no building, but without it, nothing's going to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are all these smoke curtains. If you don't have the structure of organisational, well-paid people, trained people and political will and behind them should be a mobile court and judge investigator who judges on site and iron brooms from Međimurje down to Boka Kotarska, we'll just tell this story that's Christmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111066	What is the most beautiful city on the Adriatic? Mrs. Dark Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111067	Thank you very much. So, when it comes to illegal construction, I will not go into illegal construction outside Europe, so the Scandinavian countries and the north know the lawless construction at the level that someone has closed their porch. But the countries of the Mediterranean, the lawless construction, are absolutely not the exclusivity of this space of ours, but even more so. And they fought illegal construction in different ways. In Italy, there were actions, which were every about 15-20 years when the army went out and destroyed the lawless houses. So here you have different methodologies and different ways, Croatia is not excluded, but what is important and important, that at one point you draw the line and that it is not in the future. That one moment was the Law on Legalization, and behind that was to be said to the settler, that it was the last line of defense, about whether that's how we're going to see it in the future. And I'm sorry, too, when I see anything that's wrongly being built.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111068	Thank you very much, thank you. And in the end, Mr. Culey. Mr. Culey, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111069	I'm sorry, we had a little chat. Dear colleagues, former Minister of Construction, one question, the eternal issue of Gunja, why did 70 square meters in Gunja charge 893 thousand kn? I call you and every time I talk about this Gunja, because I know how much the house costs, I've made 2 with my own hands and with my own money. But I don't understand 893 thousand kn 70 square feet in Gunja, where do we live? Well, there's no Inspectorate One that's got work to do, so there's supposed to be... come, not a simple inspectorate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111070	The answer to Mrs. Crescent's Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111071	Your Honor, you say exactly what you want in the way you want and you don't want to look at the whole picture. What was done in the cvelferia and the cvelferia was not only Gunja, but 6 settlements in a year, restored 2000 houses, renovated all public buildings, restored in a way that no one from that area had left because he had no place to be or his child could not go to school and it was such a project that was at such a time unique, in an area that was fuelled by flood and cost, you took one case, you have all the cases that cost, for everything it was a public tender, 27 companies, who reported all 27 companies were working under the same conditions. I wouldn't want it to happen to anyone else in Croatia again and that's how it has to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111072	Thank you, too. Let's continue with these discussions of ours. Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111074	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear State Secretary, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So here, today when we discuss the final proposal of the State Inspectorate Act, it's interesting to listen to colleagues who say that this law will make the inspector no longer independent, not independent. It's funny to listen and remember what it was in 2014 when there was a breaking, namely, that was one irresponsible political decision. It was a decision, which made a huge waste of money, without any specific previous analysis. Because I'm sure there's been an analysis, so there's no such decision. Imagine what it was like to take down the board of the State Inspectorate, one board, so you need to put 17 new plates on. As was the case when 17 inspectors were actually supposed to have 17 vehicles to go to the field. Now this very law, by uniting all these inspections, will be possible, that here, for example. This one vehicle, used by 17 inspectors, of course, depending on which area it will go, but certainly far better will be efficiency and will be obtained at the quality and efficiency of the work done. It is this government and this law, as well as that, that we reduce the number of agencies, institutes and funds, that it wants to rationalise costs and gain at the quality of work. What will certainly be the greatest joy for our entrepreneurs, businessmen, especially small craftsmen, who must also be financial experts and staff, legal experts, is very difficult to follow and our changes in regulations, that is, art. 73rd, which says there are exceptions to the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. So far, as soon as a particularly small craftsman saw the inspector at his door, he had already counted how much punishment he could pay if a certain irregularity was determined, and we know, as I said, that the regulations change daily and that a small craftsman is almost impossible to follow. It is precisely this law, a supervised legal or natural person, during inspection supervision, that is, until a solution is reached, that can remove irregularities, which means they will not be brought against him, an offence warrant and a misdemeanor procedure. It can also, even after a missed solution, take a commitment and get a deadline for removal as well as on the minutes themselves, also remove this particular deficit through a certain deadline. So, they'll get a written order and a deadline for removal and, of course, if they don't remove it within a certain time limit, then they'll just be prosecuted. From all of this is the procedure that endangers life, human health, property, environment, etc. which is also understandable. And I would like to thank this occasion that between the 1st and 2nd readings there has been a change when it comes to the work of the construction inspection, namely, it must indeed be united, and fully and inspective works of the construction inspection will be taken over by the state inspectorate. However, when we talk about the construction inspection part, I would like to appeal to the part that we have already heard, especially the presentation of colleague Mrak-Taritash, which refers to the construction on the maritime good. It states that the construction inspection work is the construction of buildings, as well as the use of buildings and the maintenance of buildings, but paragraph 3 excludes buildings whose construction according to a special regulation is supervised by other inspection, administrative bodies and units of local and regional self-government, as well as the supervisory services of public institutions. I think the building inspector, we know what kind of professional equipment he should have, how much work experience and just building on the marine good, records, we have the most illegal construction on that part. The maritime well is well that, I would say we all swear, and we consider it our greatest wealth, and every day we witness that the 12 square houses that get concession approval, over the years become solid objects, and of 12 it becomes three, four times 12 squares and so on, and here we have urged to reconsider once again that this Law would not bypass this maritime well-being and leave it exclusively to the communal order, and many municipalities in the coast are too small, even together they have more, one communal director, which the Law also provides and is very difficult to follow. When it comes to changes between the first and second readings, it would point out, on the grounds that it will be regulated under the legal acts, as well as the identification of the number and the seats of the district offices and the premises of the district offices, and it speaks of these exposures. Namely, each County has its own specificity and it would be good to, for example, our Sibenik-Knin County get a special branch and have its own independence in relation to other coastal ones, which we do not deny that others should have. Another article is very interesting and would say very important, and it refers to an apartment search request. If a person is suspected of carrying out an activity in an apartment or in another space or providing services not covered by the decision or approval of the competent authority, the supervised person will not allow the inspector to carry out inspection surveillance in that space, the inspector will, if there is a risk of delay, request the competent criminal court to issue a written order after an emergency procedure. This is a very common case with us in the coast, because we just have small tenants or tenants not falling into this category, but those of our citizens who are working against the solution, so it will not be possible for a tourist inspector to monitor his work, but it will only be necessary to inform the competent criminal court. I mean, by the time that this inspector who is such an irregularity or so said work on black found, comes into his office, writes a letter or an e-mail to the criminal court, I don't know how they have the opportunity to get out in the field at all, this guest will already leave without saying that it can go through the tourist season, so I'd like to ask you one more time to consider which way to gain in efficiency and faster identification, or control, and supervision and punishment of those renters who work on black. All of this will certainly contribute to the quality and efficient performance of the work, but we must also know that our inspectors or our services, regardless of what it is, any inspection of the work and the like, that they lack the inspector, and I do not think that these inspectors are well-paid and adequately paid. So here's to it all, I believe that the Chief State Inspector and the State Inspectorate will consider obtaining the efficiency of the work, so that they can better protect the quality of the work of those craftsmen, entrepreneurs, tenants working in accordance with the Law in relation to those who intend to avoid, and their obligations, both financially and legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111075	Thank you. We have two replicas, and before we move on to replicas, since it has been estimated that this debate on this law will be almost sometime by 2:30, then, since today has been scheduled work for the whole day, it will continue with points, next points, a little later, so that we give time to those who are not present, who are not present and that is, on the agenda will continue to where we get to evening. Here you go, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111076	The Honorable Chairman. The debate will end earlier today because the opposition has withdrawn from the debate, so that is the right of the opposition. For tomorrow, points are agreed, people have prepared presentations, laws are important, and you can't put it that way now, if we're informed that tomorrow we have important laws concerning agriculture, so people are preparing for it tomorrow. And today the debate ended earlier because the opposition decided, not because we are not allowed to be here, I am sitting, although we have withdrawn from the debate, but because it is a certain message, which we want to send as an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111077	Here you go, Mr. Bucci.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111078	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, first of all, it wasn't the opposition, it was part of the opposition. As far as I followed during the morning debate, several opposition clubs discussed this Act, the HSS Club and the GLAS Club discussed it, and independent representatives also discussed it. That's one thing. The second thing is, there is no opposition because it does not participate in discussions, conduct and determine the dynamics of the Parliament's work. Namely, the Vice-President of the Parliament did not skip the law that was to come to order in 15 days, but the one that was due to come to order in the morning, so we go in order and order the scheduled agenda points, therefore, there is no problem here, two hours earlier than the debate on the Agriculture Act will begin, and there is no problem that the representatives who planned to participate tomorrow morning in the debate, now with this debate, now... when it will begin at 15 hours and 15 minutes would be about to begin the work of the Parliament with these points of the agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is no dispute nor is it contrary to the Rules of Procedure, although I think it is the order and for the protection of Parliament's integrity that in the afternoons, at 3:00 he continues his work when he has exhausted his agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111079	Here you go, Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111080	Dear counterpart Bačić, you are the ones who dictate the Parliament's agenda and you have informed all MPs which laws are at stake tomorrow. What the debate is about to end earlier today is just an indication that you went through one person to solve your own internal affairs, i.e. Mr. Andrija Mikulić means as chief state inspector, and as a position, we have the right to send that message to our citizens and you can't announce an hour before the debate that we will now discuss essential laws or you don't want to discuss the agriculture that you have destroyed, debated at some normal time, do you not want a colleague, Bačić? So you destroyed agriculture, you destroyed Slavonia, you displaced Slavonia, and now you don't want to discuss it means at some normal time, you don't allow the opposition to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111081	Is there anything else anyone else would like to say? ... Let's move on with the debate, Mr. Branko Bacic as an individual debate. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111082	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... The lines were, I'm sorry. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111083	And the replicas, Mr. Mrsic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111084	... Dear fellow Members, first of all, this is not a rationalization but a state collection because you will hire a top state inspector, a dozen of his deputies, assistants, administrative staff, and when he was dismembering himself, then it was not a job but rather a part of the ministry with existing people because he is not employed by any new administrative staff, you will hire at least one 100 or 200 new people in that plant, which is probably one building, next to the inspectorate, probably where Minister Horvat was going to frame that inspectorate, but what I wanted to point out to you is that what stands in the law that he will not be punished by a craftsman, hang a cat on the tail because the inspector has to act according to the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the law says that his mistake is followed by punishment, he will be punished, the inspector then acts against the law and then the inspector will be punished and the inspector cannot have his opinion differently from the law. Therefore, what is important to say that this is in law, you can hang this cat on the tail because it will not be, or will treat some of those who are close to HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111085	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111086	A fellow Mrsic, just in 2014, breaking up meant throwing money, as I said, from a single panel of 17, it took 17 vehicles, do you know how they worked on the ground inspectors? Please ask them how they went, for example. From Sibenik to Vodice. 17 vehicles, 17 different inspections. Oh, that was terrible the way it was done. As far as employees are concerned, this is what I'm going to tell you. In the 2019 budget, you could see that the staff expenditures will have 24 billion kuna compared to that of 26 and 700 in 2017. You will say that it is not true, it is true, the total expenditures are higher but all these employment concerns only persons who will work on European funds and are paid from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111087	Let's move on. And we have another replica, Mr. Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111088	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Branka, you mentioned here the problem of therefore inspection and entering private property, first of all I think that here you thought of tourist inspectors which has so far proved to be a major problem. We had a situation on the ground that tourist inspectors could only monitor those who had been registered and legalized to carry out their activities and if they encountered irregularities or if someone had so to say, rented on black, had to notify customs, while customs came from another place, it was 3.4 dream, whoever was on black had already lost color in Frankfurt if he left that apartment. I think this is a good solution that the law now provides, and that should be strictly defined so that all inspectors can enter private houses that are not registered for such a part of their activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111089	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111090	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Kliman, yes, right now, and according to the amendments and additions to the Law on the catering activity and this law, the tourist inspector will be able to enter and oversee the work of the so-called so-called "teacher". on black. However, there is a provision that says, if that citizen does not allow entry into his facility, he will say, it will ask the competent court for it. Well, I think we're going to have a lot of problems here, because like I said, it's going to be a while before the inspector comes to his office, and then he asks in writing, and then this infraction court decides which one of their employees and how to determine this irregularity that the guest will travel without saying the tourist season is going to end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111091	We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111092	I thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, but during the morning the club of HDZ representatives spoke of supporting this Act, I just wanted to look back on two things I said during the first reading. Before that, I will say that I support the establishment of a State Inspectorate in which the work of 17 existing inspections would be united, which would contribute to a coordinated more effective work of the State Inspectorate. First of all, I believe that this will improve the work of the State Inspectors on the one hand, and on the other hand it will be more efficient and less cost will be spent on the work of a general inspection in the Republic, when they are united in one place, in this case in the State Inspectorate. I already said in my replica this morning that I did not accept the political accusations that the Chief State Inspector would influence individual inspectors because if I agreed to that assessment and that accusation, then we would in some way admit that even the current inspectors are not thinking with their own heads, but are waiting for their superiors who are now assigned to a number of ministries. Therefore, this argument would try to intervene in this way so that inspectors would work in their business indiscriminately or selectively from one to another legal or natural person in fact speak best of those who were able to run certain ministries or participate in the work of the Government or support those same governments, and they asked that the inspection structure be deployed to the ministries. Therefore, I believed and trusted the civil servants, in this sense the inspectors and when they worked at the Ministry and were responsible for their work in the first place to their competent minister, as I believe they will work consciously and legally now at the moment at which they are primarily responsible for their work to the central state inspector. What I would particularly like to single out, so I already said this morning, and I support that, not to share, not to split up the building inspection, so that certain works of the construction inspection are in the Ministry, and some of the works of the construction inspection at the State Inspectorate. This was not a good solution, I think the inspection must be one-of-a-kind, that jobs are both in construction inspection and those related to the monitoring and monitoring of buildings for which construction acts are issued at the level of large cities or counties and the monitoring and supervision of jobs and objects whose building acts are resolutely unified, identical, is the same profession, is the same thing, and it is good that it is now in one place. However, in my presentation in the first reading, I said that I held that there was a better quality solution for me in the Resolute Ministry, but between the fact that it was separated and that it was in one place, I support and I support, therefore, this approach and I said that I would respect and understand the fact that then this entire inspectorate is in one place, which I had already said earlier. Another thing I would also like to point out in particular is the organisation of the work of the State Inspectorate. I spoke in my first reading, and I will now repeat this, as I agree to expose the ministries to other central bodies, which organise that regional or regional self-government is organised in the Republic of Croatia, I am a supporter, I advocate such a structure of the State Inspectorate that will respect that regional division in the Republic of Croatia, as the police did, as the IRS did. I believe that the tasks of the inspectorate are often connected or are in a certain way similar to that of the IRS, as the IRS inspectors do, etc., so that I believe that this structure, which is already defined for the Ministry of Interior and the IRS, would be the best thing for me to do if it were to be painted at the level of the State Inspectorate's structure. How will we deal with this by the Government's regulation on the establishment of the State Inspectorate, we, as representatives through first and second reading, present our views. It would be good if as soon as possible in the HS discussion and the Law establishing the Ministry and other central bodies, so that we could read in a certain way everything that we have provided for in this Law, but which will now clearly enable the establishment of another Central State Authority. Therefore, I support this Law, I support solutions relating to construction inspection, I suggest the part relating to the structure of the State Inspectorate itself, and in this way it seems to me that we will contribute to a better, coordinated work of all inspections in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111093	Thank you, too. In the meantime, to be transparent to the end, I also got from HSS certain complaints about it, except Mr. Grumoja and Mosta from before, that today comes the Law on Agriculture and from the Living Wall, so if they have anything more to say about it, I would ask you to say. If, excuse me, I want to be transparent until the end and take responsibility, I have to take responsibility, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111094	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, here's the good word we've been complaining about. We applied for the final debate, so we thought we'd draw attention to this about the debate schedule. If the debate is scheduled tomorrow, then it's announced for tomorrow. Since the HDZ with the new Rules of Procedure has accelerated the debate, it simply abolishes the power of the debate, trying to keep us talking as little as possible. Now they break the schedule that they bring themselves and want the debates announced a day later, put the day before. I don't know how you think we're getting ready. It's all going so fast, so extensive. So what, we don't sleep at night to prepare for those laws all the time? I don't think it's correct for any party's representatives to have a point announced for tomorrow put on the agenda today at the last minute. If you are not able to make a good schedule, then you better organize. You sent us home a week without our knowledge. We could've done part of the agenda and it would've been a lot easier for these discussions to go. There wouldn't be that much tension. I consider, here are my colleagues from HSS and I know that other parties, Mr. Bunjac of the Living Wall, also finds it wrong to put up a debate today that has been announced for tomorrow. And we're going to protest, we're just going to leave this assembly. If it is in your interest that the opposition does not speak at all of the problems that are so great in Croatia that you cannot overcome them, then say it publicly. If we need to get our own tapes to tape our mouths, so we don't talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111095	Okay. Let's not go too far with the words. No, I don't. Let me say it. I'll give you my word. First it was the well, then Bacic, but wait just a moment to say one thing. Wait, excuse me, Mr. Bunzak, just a minute. [[Intruder Bunjac: Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament.]] Excuse me. I'll give you my word. Since I'm assuming that everything you've said is related to the Agriculture Act, maybe the compromise would be to go on with the points, not to lose the day because those who are watching us, you know, think that we have to work all day, that we don't lose the day to compromise that I'm proposing, but in the end I think I'm leaving it to you. I'll have to make a decision in the end, but let everyone give their opinion. Let it be with other points of the agenda so that the day is not lost without the Agriculture Act being released. But now I'm leaving it to you. Before Mr. Bunjac, then Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111096	Thank you very much, Vice President. So by introducing a new Rules of Procedure, you've significantly narrowed down the space for the opposition to discuss in the way it discussed before. But yet you have introduced new news, positive news, that the debate plan is being delivered before the session begins. And we've been getting that plan for months. Always at the beginning of the week so we can prepare for certain points of the agenda. Not only are we preparing, but the interested public who comes up here to the gallery and listens to these discussions are also waiting for us at the entrance to the Parliament on Mark's square to express their agreement or disagreement with the proposed text of the law. If we're going to break the rule now, the positive rule that we've adopted, then it's obvious that such agreements no longer apply, and then I don't see the point of Mr. Bukarica or anyone providing us with any such plans, because then we can de facto expect that at any point in the agenda, any point will be at the debate. Today, an extraordinary situation occurred, and this is that Mr. Reiner has divided the exclusions, so he divided it at the very beginning of the exclusion session, causing certain club representatives to leave the debate and in protest, and now after 6 hours here we should end up with 32 points of the agenda. [[Intruder Radin: Thank you.]] That's what we were saying at first. You wanted to unite the debate You wanted to unite the debate. [[Thank you, thank you.]] You've united her. All right. [[Mr. Bunjac, you've made yourself clear.]] You've united her and now take responsibility for your actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111097	Thank you. Thank you. You made yourself clear. Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111098	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And you, Mr. Vice President and I, there are still a significant number of fellow MPs here who are not the first meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I was sitting in this House when I didn't know in the morning at 8:00 a.m. what I was going to discuss during the day, when the dots were changing from hour to hour. Now we've established a practice that MPs on Friday afternoon know what they're going to discuss all week. It's never been done before. So now three to five days before we start discussing the point can be discussed in advance. The Parliament's debate on the Agriculture Act has been known for six days and when it will be. It's scheduled for tomorrow morning as the first item of the agenda. The Council today is in the event that the opposition violates the Rules of Procedure to which it is now being called and this morning refused to respect it when it was well written in the Rules of Procedure that certain points can be united, especially when they are in conformity and when they are still technical and when this proposal was proposed by the Legislative Committee and when it was clearly sanctioned by the Committee's proposal by the majority of the representatives present, the opposition did not like it, and boycotted the possibility of opening the debate at all and clearly that it was sanctioned. And now it is their fault to chair them for not respecting the same Rules of Procedure they are now calling upon. Because part of the opposition did not take part in the debate, we will finish the work of the Parliament at 2 p.m. or 3 p.m. And then it seems grotesque to me when someone from the opposition calls for work and the week he's gone when Parliament doesn't work, and now that Parliament does not want to work. That's almost incomprehensible. So, Mr. Lenart is transferring us to the ruling majority that we haven't worked for a week, and now that we're working, now he's bothered to work for 2. ... Maybe you're done working till 10 in the morning, 11 in the morning, 12, let me know when we're gonna work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or a working day in the Assembly can work until 10:00 p.m. Is that a problem for you to sit there? If it's your problem to be here in the Assembly and discuss at 3:00 in the afternoon, then that's your problem, not this Parliament's problem. And please don't, I let you go and I listened to you and I asked you to let me finish it. So, we did this, so we don't send a message to the Croatian public, so the parliamentary representatives can work at 3:00 p.m., and at half past four, and not go home and not work in the Parliament. If you're having a problem, the point of the agenda, instead of Thursday at half past ten, started her debate in a few hours before, then it's your club's problem. Anyone interested in this subject may appear any parliamentary representative, what are your parliamentary representatives doing now, where are they, why aren't they in the Assembly? Where's the SDP? I don't see any SDP MPs at 2:00 a.m., and now we should worry about where they are, and wait for opposition deputies to come here to the Parliament to do their job, which is why they've been elected, and we should all suffer political damage from our fellow citizens, because of the fact that I'm not working, I think it's absolutely inappropriate, that's more than I know what I've been involved in, when I was at 11 in the morning, I didn't know what I'm going to discuss at 1 p.m., and I don't know what tomorrow or the whole next week is going to be. I ask you, Mr. Vice President, you've been in this House for a long time, and you know how it has been done, and now that we've introduced some transparency, when we know who and when we can discuss it, we are now bothered that maybe the point came half an hour earlier on the agenda. I think I love and understand that the opposition wants to find its place under the sun policy, but which is a lot, it's really a lot of my people if we want to work and implement, that is, carry out the obligations that we've been elected to the Croatian Parliament for.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111099	Okay, I do know that until the last one, until this call, actually, that it's time, Father, I want to give you my word, Mr. Nincevic, I will give everyone my word, that it's been dissipated as far as the agenda point is concerned. And so that's one fact. The second is the fact, Mr. Bacic is then, we have now tried to introduce some order and that it is good, what Mr. Bunjac said, to be well, well to stick to that order, but I will give a further word to everyone, but let's talk in a good way, a nice way about it and finally find a solution or some compromise. Here you go, Mr. Djujic, and I'm sorry, there's been a violation of the Rules of Procedure before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111100	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bacic, don't run away from this now, you've turned out to be a hero now run for it. Article 238 insult fellow Bačić. ... A member of the Croatian Peasant Party and a member of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party and the SDP representatives are not my representatives, and the work plan is corrected for today, my house is in Kutina and I am in Zagreb today until evening. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Let's not argue, talk about it normally, it's about continuing the agenda.]] Mr. Djakić, don't sleep but listen, I said the article, I said the article Mr. Djakic, Mr. Reiner, can you give Mr. Djakic a warning that was distracting me in the debate? I know I'm gonna get a warning, but I hope he gets a warning, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111101	Like this, first... Take over, so let's not be nervous, uh, as far as I figured out which one [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a breach of the rules of procedure. [[Intruder Lenart: The damage to the rules of procedure was.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111102	So I said article 238, so Djakic sleeps so he can't hear, so he insults me and interrupts me in the debate. I suggest here is my colleague Bačić that at 3.15 we now have a vote on this bill, but that probably doesn't fit, because you can't collect the quorum, right because you don't have HDZ representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111103	Okay, thank you very much. I'm assessing that there's no injured Rules of Procedure, colleague Djujic, I don't get it, you do something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111104	You couldn't even figure it out, when you just came here so now that this You weren't even there when I answered, uh, we were here the whole time, I came to protest, can I talk. [[Intruder Radin: Of course, yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111105	Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111106	Can you give your colleague Bačić a warning about throwing him out of the bench, as you have been sharing warnings for 2 days now to opposition MPs and taking our word for it. Yesterday, today, probably tomorrow. I came here to react because my colleague Bacic called that there is not a single SDP representative. We're all here, but my colleague Bacic, we're boycotting your debate. Because our colleague Reiner is punishing us by taking away the words against the business when we warn of the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and you know it. And we said this morning why we're not here in the hall, but we're in the building. And I have now come here to protest, once again and against this continuation of the agenda, because the day is lost, who said the vice president, the moment you tried in a non-democratic way to silence the opposition representatives, first yesterday afternoon, on pension reform and you continued today. And it's not right what you're doing, and we're not going to be involved in this, and we're strongly opposed to the continuation of tomorrow's agenda to this day and your colleague Bačić, it can't be an argument for you, it didn't work out before, so now we can do whatever you want. You can't do what you want, I know your nickname says I can do what I want, but look, it can't. And you continue to act so unmistakable, and we will not participate further, but because of the Croatian public, we are all here in the building, and where are your 30 representatives from HDZ? Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111107	Thank you very much. Then we will continue the debate, individually, for an individual debate, with the honourable representative Josip Djakic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. State Secretary and Secretary, here we have before us a law on the State Inspectorate on which great dust has been raised, and it is in fact a necessity and a need for the reform plan for 2018 set up and completed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, that inspectorate should never have shut down. Only from personal whims so that they could be powerful men like the Minister of former agriculture, i.e. the former Jakovina or some ministers who wish to put inspectors in their reins and thus carry out inspection services, the inspectorate has been shut down. It should function as an independent state body and function evenly rationally, functionally throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and not be subject to those who need to maintain order, responsibility and all that the law has imposed on them. So, this proposed law is a really necessary prerequisite for implementing reforms, but also for treating all citizens in the Republic of Croatia fairly as well as for all legal entities that deviate from legal norms. We hope that the inspection services will work unitedly and functionally to be rational, unrepressive in what is expected at the previous moment. First of all, I would like to stress that inspectors who know their jobs, who are educated, educated and educated in order to convey first and foremost knowledge and warnings to those who are deviating from the law in the very beginnings of our craftsmen, entrepreneurs, OPGs and all those who are subject to inspection. My desire is not only to be a repression thing that will fill the state's register, but to be educated through their tour, but to be repressed where there is really no other way to act as if in an illegal construction that starts already in the very beginnings on the foundations for which there is no building permit. That's certainly what has to be stopped when it's starting, not when there's a house or an object under the roof. I believe that all of us who want to discuss reasonablely can understand that the pooling of inspections from the State Inspectorate's department will contribute to the more efficient performance of inspection tasks and more coherent actions in monitoring the application of regulations and more rational use of financial and other labour resources. The more rational use is when three inspectors or one inspector in his authority has a number of others, comes into the field, performs his inspection, makes a record and leaves the entrepreneur to work, not to have another one, then another one, and then another one, so it takes a week and loses a man his working time, loses, for example, if the catering facilities are concerned, of course, that guests also move away as to what will participate in this inspection surveillance. All lose, in fact, and can be much faster, more efficient, more correct towards the goals they are subject to and the legal powers they have. We believe that no one is bothered by the inspections doing their job and being on the ground in order to curb the black market and work, and trade in various goods and services, and I believe that then the state register will be fuller that we will achieve a better and better life in the whole area. The State Inspectorate has put forward in this legislative proposal that is the jobs of state-run officials, so there is a deputy chief state inspector, there are jobs of assistants, business of sector chiefs, head of district offices, business of service managers, and the affairs of supervisory department heads. I believe that dispersed by these departments or department heads will also be much easier to work on now that they are under the State Inspectorate, than when they were resolutely competent ministers, and then the Secretary of State, and the Assistant and all of them directed them, and this way perhaps they should go there rather than here, and they may have used their powers at the border and ministers themselves. So this body that's formed should never have stopped working. It was only necessary to strengthen it to work better, more correctly, more quality in the interests of all citizens, to be truly functional and effective in doing their jobs. Here, that's all I wanted to say. I won't waste any more time. We support the adoption of this Law that is certainly good and that has said all that will be in the future, how the State Inspectorate will function, how their powers of inspectors will be, how the functions of certain things will be united, and how the work of inspection services itself will be rationalised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111109	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111110	Dear counterpart Djakic, we did not intend to discuss what you intend to do where you create a chair for a man to resolve your internal conflicts in HDZ. So it's obvious that this is being pushed so that Andrija Mikulić sits in the chair of the chief state inspector and this story of yours about the efficiency of the system, about how our people, entrepreneurs or any other person, should not be punished immediately, but should be warned only stories. You are interested in the concentration of power in the hands of one man because Andrija Mikulić will not be so easy from the chair of the president of the City of Zagreb. He needs a better toy. So, you should give him a place to mean Chief State Inspector and that's your goal and that's what you're up to. That's all you want to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111111	Thank you. The response of the respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111112	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grumoja, you know that what I said, it stands in the text of the bill, as well as 100% and the Attorney General, so there is a Chief State Inspector. Whether it's Andrija, Franjo, Marco, Joseph or anyone else, we'll see who it is, you're like that psychic Milan, so you predict who it will be. You and a lot of different contractual forms with grizzly, so you probably didn't make it, I don't know if you still have that firm, which you wanted to act on both the inspection services and the Ministry and the bodies of the persecution and the State's Attorney's office, you covered everything, and I'll read to you one day what it says there, with what devil's pact you made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111113	My colleague Grumo has been hurt by his rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111114	I am withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because it is true, unfortunately, that we have made a pact with a devil called the Croatian Democratic Community, and that is where we will strive to make our mistake. Correction, so we will fight against this devil, by all means, and also by baptized water, if necessary. [[Intruder Reiner: Good means then you pulled out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111115	Well, then you've pulled a breach of your rules of procedure, and I'm surprised you're talking then. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111116	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you're in one section right now and you're stating what shouldn't happen. So the establishment of the State Inspectorate is not going to be the change that you've been talking about, whether the entrepreneur is one inspection, more of them, they're just curious about how it's going to be done. If you are of the view that this inspector should reach the entrepreneurs, sit there and conduct inspection surveillance, then we return back to what time it was, there is no movement, only we will have a new organisation, new leaders, leaders who, as far as it is visible from this proposal do not have a qualification, will be a political person, who will be set up there to implement political plans. Why didn't you ask it to be someone from entrepreneurship? You know what an inspection would look like? It would be 3 times smaller, 10 times more efficient and certainly wouldn't be any entrepreneur who would come and complain, and we see that we've been trying to make it smaller since 2016.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111117	Thank you. Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111118	Thank you very much. I've been reviewing the public consultation that's been done and the proposal is a profession that has said its own, so could you. And it probably doesn't say anywhere in that profession that the walls on the house must be of Styrofoam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111119	Comrade Panenić, what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in now, please?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111120	He's hurt, may I speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111121	You may, of course, speak even if you abuse the violation of the Rules of Procedure You'll get a warning and don't say that I'm always giving notices to the opposition MPs, please. [[/Upadica Panenić: This is how Article 238 was injured.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111122	He's been injured. In 238, the MP presented incorrect information, stating that I had not read the clarifications that were in the public debate. I don't know if he's become psychic, but he seems to have had a certain styrofoam around his brain that's accumulated, so now, what he can't figure out is that others are looking at and reading what's said, and he'd be begging this nest that the cluckers stop.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111123	Comrade Panenić, I naturally give you a warning. I beg you, I ask you nicely, let's hold, hold the level of debate all together, we all hold the level of discussion as it should be in the Croatian Parliament. I'm asking you nicely, please. You can't, you can't, please. ... My colleague Panenić, I didn't give my word. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking you all to behave as this House does. And in my speeches and in my reactions, I ask nicely for it all together. A respected representative of the Sunchana Glavak, has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, in which the Rules of Procedure has been injured, I warn in advance that if the institution is abused, I am sick of the abuse of the institution of the Rules of Procedure. People can talk here and lie and eat and often talk to each other. And that's not why we hurt the Rules of Procedure to understand each other right away, because if that's why the rules of procedure are being broken, then, I'm afraid the vast majority of us are constantly in the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I am not the one, nor is anyone, who can judge whether someone is telling the truth or telling a lie. So, I can't do any damage to my rules of procedure, but, uh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I understand you very well, aware of the violations of Article 238, former Minister Panenic, insulted MPs or MPs, so I ask you to look at Article 238 to warn those who deserve it and I think it is high time that civilised ways start acting in the assembly. This is really low, rude, impertinent and home-grown, your colleague Panenic can be a disgrace to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111125	Okay, I'm assessing that there's no injured Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you again to stop acting like we're in kindergarten. Sorry, you're acting like you're in kindergarten, literally, please. Let's be serious, we do a serious job, we should work, people look at us and judge us. The answer to the replica of the respected representative Djakic, or are we done? Nothing, then the next replica is the esteemed representative Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111126	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Djakic, in line with this inspection, I hope he'll be good, that he won't be like he was where the inspectors went for 50 km into some inspections, so they had problems. I've just had one case where a man told me that – see where I'm going, so I don't know when I'll be there. But good. I hope these inspections aren't just inspections for those little craftsmen and small shops, small cafes and small people. The inspection must be, doing something else entirely and investigating these big companies, including state-owned companies, where billions of millions of dollars are being paid, where there's a lot of irregularities. And I hope that this inspector's supervision will be quite different than it has been so far because, not to mention taxes and unpaid taxes and anything that goes on in the state, customs and the rest, I think it should be the main focus of inspection where and what was going on in the Uljanik where inspections were long ago needed to go in and see where those money was spent, where those billions were and how they were spent and someone had to answer for it. In fact, inspections should be done, and these small hours of work and the rest of course, and they should be groomed, but not in that sense, because the inspections only worked out for small people. There's no such thing as a big one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111127	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111128	Thank you very much. Yeah, buddy, expectations are high. If the inspectorate had continued his work, he would have probably had his full success at this age. They should not be discussing this law today and wasting time if it were not for the whim of individuals who acted in power to put under themselves these inspections, and there is doubt that they were for a purely reason to run them in order to direct them where they were politically suited. What they were supposed to do, suppress imports, illegal trade, three times frozen meat, incorrect or out of goods, they weren't doing it because in the community probably ministers with certain suppliers of these goods and services were, said don't go there, there shouldn't go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111129	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111130	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, driven by this great debate from the very beginning and what the SDP Club actually did and referring to your debate, Mr. Djakic, in fact because you started your debate by not even having to end this State Inspectorate then, it's hard to remember all the damage the Kukuriku coalition has done for its mandate for the people and the state. But I'll remind you in 2012... they changed the law, they changed about 3,000 people not only there, but in the ministries, the agencies, abolishing the State Inspectorate and then if you remember we're on all county buildings, even some of the mayors said we shouldn't do the facades as many tables and boards as we had for each ministry. Not to say it wasn't even. What's not good and it's supposed to be today, which is to be a quality and good debate for those whose law serves to contain certain things and to make it better. So expeditionive and mobile, what you actually said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111131	Thank you. Dear Representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111132	Well, of course the inspectorate, I'm saying, shouldn't have shut down he'd have lived and functioned better, increasingly quality with a good shot. This is how many times I've been complained about what kind of pressure certain civil servants are putting on them, including ministers. There was waste, boast, focus, and partiality in the conduct of these services. This must be interrupted and the adoption of the Inspectorate Act and the establishment of the State Inspectorate must be terminated and both functionally and rationally handled by state goods, finances and resources given to the inspectorate at their disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111133	The next replica is the esteemed representative Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111134	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Djakic, I would like to comment on a situation that is very plastically depicting this situation with the inspectors. So the most touristic Croatian region of Istria had only 4 tourist inspectors. Can you imagine four tourist inspectors in their area? So it's impossible to do that job that the law predicted him to do. The introduction of inspectorates will now increase the number to a much larger number of inspectors and will therefore make the inspection more effective. However, I would also like to emphasise how much time it allows me, that everyone welcomes the introduction of inspectorates in the conversation with the businesspeople in Croatia. So we don't introduce one repression here for nothing, but that's what our businessmen welcome, where they're fed up with inspection to go through them in one day of three inspections, five inspections, and make it impossible for them to and disrupt their work the way they imagined it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111135	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111136	Well, you see, my colleague, that trail has been sent by inspectors from the continent to our shores many times. When they get there, when they get there, when they get into space, when they see which subjects they have to control with what signs, it's all far from what in the field when a man knows matter and knows what business he has and how he can react. Of course, the most opposed to this inspectorate were those who probably had the most influence on individual inspectors. They are from their experiences, today they are struggling vigorously so that it will not happen because they will not be able to have any more. And those inspectors themselves, as well as the citizens, as well as the businessmen who participated in this consultation, made it clear that it was necessary and necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111137	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. So, individually, they'll be discussing the next, esteemed representative, Stevo Culey. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111138	Dear Vice President, I'm here to discuss the case of a taxpayer. It is about a businessman who has worked and works in Croatia for over 40 years in Vinkovci, and is also a Croatian defender who regularly pays his obligations to the state and workers. However, one supervision was carried out over it and it was found that during tax supervision, the taxpayer Shimun d.o.o. Vinkovci provided to the tax authority a bank account showing that he had received the same cash for the issued and charged bills of more than 75 thousand kuna on the gyro-account of the same or at the latest the following working day. However, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism "The People's News", No. 108/17. In Article 55, it is prescribed: “A legal or natural person who carries out a registered activity in the Republic of Croatia must not receive payment or pay in cash worth 75 thousand kuna and greater.” It is a single economic operator who therefore has been working and acting for 40 years and despite being a Croatian defender repeatedly decorated, the inspectorate has done one big job in this case, so he has been charged 3 thousand kuna to him personally for a highly qualified offence, and a company with a fine of 70 thousand kuna. If this is about co-financing terrorism in the same case, I'm very confused by this 3,000-dollar figure to him as a businessman and his 70,000-dollar company. It's an unspeakable blast. And at the same time, I'm going to talk about another case, one of which I've talked about more than once, but it doesn't seem to be as interesting as this businessman who, for 40 years, like many others, is paying their dues to this country. And it's called, "Tulumarka Super, super factory Katran". Then comes the title in Index: “The attacks on Serbs, gays, blacks and Hajduks, and Kolinda – they thought of the president – the scrap of the increase in tolerance. ” Then comes the second title: “exclusive – Club super, super without work permits and conditions for protection against fire.” So, a totally illegal club works in the centre of Zagreb at 3:30 on the night that 400 people are totally illegal, they don't have a fire escape, we don't even know how they filled that club and how they came in. But they call, even to a president who doesn't protect their interests in their case because they're dealing with a variety of events. And what are they talking about? Furthermore, they call the Croatian society, Croatian institutions not to protect them in their illegal work, not to support them in the same, because he is, they have certain events where they are essentially protecting the gay population through their public action. In the Super Club, where alcohol is poured maximum, where no worker is registered, where there is no, where tickets to enter the same club are charged, where you have to announce in advance how many of you will come and which reservation table you will have, where sanitary conditions question whether they exist at all because they are still in some swamp tar, in some factory hall abandoned, abandoned in the center of Zagreb. Imagine, in the center of Zagreb. I wonder, are there any inspectorates who are obliged to check the same? Did they even check them out until today? Because club Super, great I don't know if it works or if we're going to go there and determine the fact that they're still breaking the law or they're doing a community service in education, Mr. Gay and the others? I wonder, how is it possible in the Croatian state that has been robbed by everyone and of everyone, there is nothing that has gone past us, nothing has bypassed us and probably won't, how is it possible that on one such case, an economic operator who has been working and operating an inspectorate is looking for and determining that there are elements of terrorism only because a day later he has deposited funds into the account? And what punishment is that? 3,000 kunas for terrorism. Imagine you as a defender, as a businessman, for 40 years who in the Vinkovci is a man of reputation that he gets such a charge. I wonder. So take away his medals, lock him up if he's accused and suspected of terrorism. Don't give him 3,000 kunas of fines. What is this message to terrorists who are likely to come to us and do terrorism in Croatia if the fine is 3 thousand kuna? How are we going to handle these two cases, I'm giving it to you to think, and I get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111139	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Ivica Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111140	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, I have to answer that debate of yours when it comes to the Vinkovci, and I'm an entrepreneur from Vinkovci myself, and I know about who it's about. But today and so far, if you're not anywhere, then you're a target group and if you're not in politics and you're an entrepreneur, then you have to be punished in any way. However, I hope that time has passed and that it should not, of course, be any more. Are the institutions doing their job? If they'd done their job by now, I don't think we'd have a problem in holding and I think this country would be at least one 10% more and better and happier than it is. But that's how it was, the postwar period. All of them are what one friend said, he says, "We are getting along in a blurry one." I disagree. We must make a law and order state for everyone, for everyone in this world, and for the ministers and the Ministry, and for the state administration and everything. If we can't do that, then we won't have any state, no order, no rule of law. We can talk as much as we want, where there's no order, there's no state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111141	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111142	Dear fellow Mišic, so I, in my time against 57 characters, filed criminal charges for war crimes and the answer of my house, the MUP, was Ne bis in i go>, not twice about the same, and I understood the question, that I asked how Pero was, and they said Pero was fine, and for Mark don't ask. Why do I say Marco? Because Marco's in Adelaide in Australia, and don't ask for Mark, so we don't have to be surprised how our institutions do it and fuck.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111143	Now we'll have final words on behalf of the Representatives' Club. First on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, respected representative Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111144	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministry. So as we said at the very beginning of the debate, we were here today discussing Lex's chair. A law that needs to be served by one man to gain unlimited power along with those people he represents, which is this man here, who we normally never see in the Parliament, and now we've seen him today because he needs to get something, and then he shows up. And that is Mr. Andrija Mikulić, who is here in the newspaper article, says he runs a suspicious mining team. So that's not what I said, but it says here, here's a suspicious mining crew. The alleged suspected mining team consists of the following factors. One is Mr Dragan Krasic, who grants concessions for mining. These are concessions for gravel, for fine stone, for mines and so on. In order to obtain a concession, his wife, Ozana Krasic, must write project documentation and elaborate. So, the wife writes to her husband a project lab, otherwise the concession can't be won. And who's watching them? They are supervised by their best man, Mr. Andrija Mikulić. Who is connected to his second best man, which is Mr. Miljan Brkic. It's funny, like, they're all married, all godfather to godfather, relatives and so forth. You don't think what I'm saying is true? So here are the gentlemen's findings from the State Audit Office, which states that the report on the performance audit of mineral raw materials management in the Republic of Croatia, December 2016, in which I quote: “The 54th page clearly states that a certain number of labs of reserve evaluations have been made by one and the same legal person, the same legal person also listed in the labs on legal persons who have produced elaborates from previous periods, which also in most cases made by the same legal person. It follows that mining operators do not give sufficient information to select entities that can produce elaborates, therefore the State Office for the Review of Opinions that should inform them." So this newspaper article appears to be true according to Nalaz, the Office for State Audit. There's always only one firm that can get concessions for mining. And now Mr. Mikulić, who is, therefore, related relatively to these people and who is clearly muddy, I didn't tell the journalist, tells the State Audit Office, wants to become the chief state inspector, to take 17 inspections under his own hands, 1800 or 2,500 people, I don't know how many, and why?, just so that relatives, godfathers, parties can still, this one, do monopoly, take commissions, I don't know what they've already taken, and honest people are destroying. All those not on the HDZ line. God forbid Branimir Bunjac opens a company in Croatia, Miro Bulj, or whoever, Zeljko Lenart. He'll be immediately strangled by an inspection like a snake, no way. And that's the meaning of your law, and that's why the opposition wanted to leave and why it left this debate. Because this debate is nothing more than an octopus resuscitation. And now in the end, when you are exposed to your fraud, you still want to push through all the rules and all the procedures of the Agriculture Act, and vote again and again, while there is no opposition. Under cover like we want to work, we're radicals, I'd always do this, says Mr. Bacic, and now it's an excuse to fool citizens for the second time. If you're such a workaholic, you shouldn't have had a break from 01 to 15.11. You don't need a Easter break, as far as I'm concerned, you don't need a New Year's Eve. It only serves as a transparent choice. The citizens see this. Now there's most of you, but most of you are in front of the screens that you see, who knows and who notes. And don't do that. Don't do that. Agriculture is a crucial strategic issue for the Republic of Croatia and deserves to be discussed in accordance with the prescribed procedure and in a way that all MPs can participate in this equally, and... An interested public who might be coming to the gallery tomorrow, and now they're being denied it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now it's 15 to three, today we've been discussing six hours and 15 minutes of this, you've raped the procedure, you've asked for a united debate, so now you're making the consequences of your decisions. Please. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111145	Thank you very much. The next debate is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Honorary Representative Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111146	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, now that Mr. Bacic saw that Bunjac or Lenart would argue, he ran out, out of that great courage he fought here. Inspections and inspectors will work both in this form or in that form, they have worked in the former form, they will also work in new form, they are working in today's, they suffer all the time of reorganization and they are not having a hard time doing business, because they are also capacitated with technique, they are being reorganized at any moment, and they are simply having a hard time monitoring everything, and this merger with this mega-inspecting conglomerate will be very difficult and will bear a lot of losses and time and everything and money. However, given that we have finished the debate today on this point, so here is counterpart Bačić who suggested that we continue to discuss agriculture I suggest that we vote today on this law, this set of laws, but no, why not, because he cannot collect any day of the majority, because his representatives are not here in the Croatian Parliament so that they can join the vote. That's the problem. A fellow Bacic can only gather representatives one day when he announces to them a week before the vote. Dear gentlemen, we have met the plan for today, as far as we from the HSS are concerned, but we can continue to discuss agriculture, we can discuss it in the middle of the night if we have to, but there are people on the other side of the screen who want to hear this debate about the agricultural legislation on roof agriculture. I suggest that if we discuss agriculture, let the Minister of Agriculture come here because this is a matter, this is a roof law in agriculture. Well, we'd like the minister to be here and hear our final remarks on a law like this, so he can tell us where the agriculture strategy is at, because we're discussing roof law, and we haven't made a development strategy. Dear gentlemen, the one who knows agriculture at all knows that there's order in the barn, that it's known when it's being cleaned, when it's being fed, when it's being fed, when the cattle are being released from the barn, and we're breaking order here. You yourself in HDZ wanted a Rules of Procedure like this. Nothing will happen if we discuss agriculture tomorrow. We've met our plan today. Why earlier, because some people have left the opposition without being able to discuss it. They're on the move again with the voice of opposition being heard as little as possible, so don't be afraid of criticism, you have most Fridays when it's being voted, you can bring whatever you want. Every criticism is special, it's encouraging, it's good. A smart man will listen and the dumbest one might draw them out of it some kind of smart conclusion. So you can listen to the opposition and don't be afraid of our criticism. Our criticisms are well-intentioned for the Croatian people. We don't work for large capital banks, for joint organizations, for the mafia, we work for the people. I want people to call me, not someone who's a sold soul. First of all, let's discuss it nicely tomorrow when people expect this Law on Agriculturals, the Law on cattle, and let's discuss it all the way it was announced, nothing will happen. What's scheduled for tomorrow will be discussed tomorrow. The only thing we can do again is save time today so let's put this set of laws to the vote if HDZ can gather its representatives. The quorum in the Croatian Parliament, we will save so that we may not even have to vote on Friday, but another day again when a hole like this is created when we finish an earlier debate because people can't speak. All these reminders from the HDZ gentlemen I'm standing here you can tell me out loud what you want, you don't have to wonder how a pict's going. I'm saying this because this is true, because this is simply an insult to the Croatian people and representatives who are elected here. We didn't come here with 200 votes, 400 some got a lot more and a lot more people wanted to be their representatives in the Croatian Parliament, we come from small places, where people ask us, we don't hide in front of anyone, we don't drive us in blind cars, we don't have a few guards, we're people from people and we sit around, we hang out, we drink coffee, we work and we walk in the muddled vans because we're not ashamed to be workers, peasants and everything that man is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111147	Thank you very much, here you are. The esteemed representative of the Grmoy has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111148	My dear Vice President, I don't know if you've noticed when my colleague Leonard was discussing, my colleague Schuker has ordered the people of the ministry to withdraw their final word where we should address all our remarks and I think this is absolutely inadmissible. That one parliamentary representative orders the representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia to withdraw their debate as they did. I ask you to warn your colleague Shuker, I know it is in their interest that as soon as they pass this State Inspectorate Act and move on to the Law on Agriculture, which is a roof law, but I promise you there will be no debate here, there will be no debate until Minister Tolusic comes here. We can discuss it now, but without Minister Tolusic there is no debate, it will not treat Croatian agriculture or Croatian village as such. We're discussing the most important law, the minister's gone, it won't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111149	A fellow Thunderbolt, first of course I didn't even see it, and that's not true that someone could order something, and as far as I know. Comrade Shuker, you will receive a warning, please, colleague Shuker, I give you a warning, I give you a warning from my colleague Shuker. [[It's true.]] This thing you said doesn't stand because the government's representatives will all speak as far as I know, at least that's how they announced it to me. Therefore, what you said is absolutely not standing and it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure accordingly. Comrade Shuker, please. Here you are, raising your colleague Bulj's breach of the Rules of Procedure, in what way has the Rules of Procedure been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111150	My colleague Lenart was injured by Rules of Procedure 238, and you should have warned him and warned him, he says that they should be parliamentary representatives of most of the people's representatives, you insult them, don't insult them, they're representatives of your horse to their boss says, therefore, it's the first insult and he should have... I'll warn you immediately. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another of your very important remarks is that the triba is talking about the Agriculture Act, that we don't trim today, of course we don't trim, and we're not going without a minister, because they've made everything possible for the country to go to the farmers, to move out Slavonia.../
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111151	/Intruder: Comrade Bulj, you have exceeded a significant time/ Here's a colleague of the Grmoy, please, very carefully. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/Intruder: And secondly, uh, you've consciously injured the Rules of Procedure, you, right now, so I'm telling you about that warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111152	Carefully, cautiously, I will only bring out the facts as I said and for the first time as much as it bothered my colleague Shucker, so the truth hurts him, he did it, he is aware that he has told Plazonic to withdraw the debate, not to discuss it, and now that the matter is worse, after he has been warned he continues to insult and continue to insult. I have not offended anyone, I have expressed what has happened and what is aware of both Mr. Plazonić and everyone here who has seen what is happening, I do not want to offend the MPs, I could say anything about my colleague Shuker and his responsibility for the situation in which our country is, but I will not do so, I will be polite and I will warn you of what is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111153	You're out of time, and of course that's no violation of the Rules of Procedure. And I'm asking you nicely, you haven't called in any article or anything. I ask you nicely, please stop with these games about hurting the Rules of Procedure when you know that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, I ask you nicely, let us not behave, you speak for yourself how the people look at us, so how all of you are ashamed to behave like that then. Next on behalf of the club, here's your colleague, Lenart, in which he was injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111154	I thank the Vice President, excuse the crowd, but here, colleague Bulj insulted me for saying that I told the HDZ that they weren't people's representatives, but... And it turns out underneath that they're representatives of the horse where the boss says, "Here, I didn't do that thing, I found myself here offended that I said that I was insinuating that HDZ's representatives, MPs where the boss says they're bonding horses." [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111155	You haven't even invited yourself to the article, I'm not going to give you any warning now because I have to admit that what you're doing today is so below any level, that it doesn't deserve any warnings at all. Next, my colleague Grumo, please, here's what hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111156	You have violated Rule 33 of the Rules of Procedure relating to the powers of the President of the Parliament or of the Chairman. Namely, you are constantly commenting on what the opposition is saying, it is not your task, nor do you have those powers. If our messages to citizens are acceptable, unacceptable, you are not there, you are here to warn us, if I have broken the Rules of Procedure, give me a warning, you are not a commentator, you are not Drago Ćosic, you are not Božo Susec, I would ask you to behave like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111157	You read better Rules of Procedure, so you'll see that I'm in charge of order here, and you're doing a mess here and you're getting a second warning with a speech ban. And now the closing word on behalf of the Mosta Independent Lists club will have a respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111158	Thank you very much, esteemed representatives of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, in fact, through this debate we have seen that the idea of creating the State Inspectorate, its re-establishment, can be of sure quality and in favour of primarily those who are subject to supervision. However, when we listen to the same argument that has been made here, then you should also accept that there are a number of fears that are already emerging in some way, not only for us as representatives, but for us, if we get information from entrepreneurs and others who see it, they warn that the debate should present problems that might arise after the implementation is started. Of course, the expectation is that this law simplifies a lot of things. All we can see is that, how many, 33 laws that go into change are about each of them just changing the conduct of the inspection service to act now within the framework of the State Inspectorate. But what is not touched, which is how will they act? Some ministers were more advanced, so some earlier, some later, found that they would not act in punishing entrepreneurs at first, so when they were determined, they would be advised, they would be set an appropriate time limit, while on the other hand, the other numerous laws were not changed. How will the State Inspectorate work? Will one practice or other practice be followed? Will he deal with the Law in which the punishment for the first offense was abolished, or will he act under those laws under which the first offense also acts as it continues? Whoever gives the guidance, if there is any guidance, is there even in the government when I was a minister, there were, some ministers said they did not want to change the Act of Conduct, but they would give a clue. So, what's the guideline, who's going to give it, is it going to be given by the Chief State Inspector? So we're going in one direction that should make it easier for everyone together, but we're making sure that there are also areas where it's going to be very carefully monitored whether these changes were just cosmetics, or if we actually get a report from the state inspector in a year, which, here, we keep getting... reports of exactly such organisations are being placed at the level of the Committee, where and when a debate is required to be transferred within the framework of the parliamentary dialogue we have here, this is being prevented. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is believed that what is being debated in the closed space of a particular committee is sufficient, I am telling you that it is not. I am just saying because fellow MPs, when they present, present concrete examples, everyone in their field speaks of what is problematic and I believe that those who need to do so, and the chief state inspector who will have a very high function, a very high responsibility, should listen and these discussions should be heard and seen in fact how the situation will improve. Here these are about the determination of certain candidates that they should be connected to other persons through connection, which is, here is a fellow living wall note, not to some leading functions, frightened, scared, scared because I simply don't feel safe if it's going to work that way and then actually questions are asked whether in this policy they're all connected, we've given all relatives, godfathers or others, and what's then the role of inspectors, to be independent or to be so connected, bound up to certain and political circles, as well as those professional circles that they won't have any power, or independence to carry out anything. How we're going to encourage these people in their actions, if just through this kind of debate and those who listen carefully today are interested, they're going to work under such new conditions, they think that, here, politics, they're not going to give real support. Politics actually needs to be completely out of the way, out of the way so that inspectors can lead them and be led by an inspector, someone who knows very well how the system works, and not that, God forbid, an agent who has never dealt with this subject, who will convey political messages, and who will not understand entrepreneurs and citizens who, God forbid, will be sanctioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111159	Thank you very much. And now, on behalf of the promoter, time will be shared by the respected secretary of state, firstly, as I understand it, the respected State Secretary Vukkovic, Marija Vukkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111160	.../The speaker disfellowshipped/...and parliamentary representatives, on behalf of the promoter, express my willingness to accept the amendment tabled by the HS Legislative Committee, and on the proposal of the Seed Act, fruit material and the recognition of the variety of agricultural herbs, which is being completed and supplemented, we have a technical statement of art. 10 and 10. 14. Proposal for a Law with the Final Proposal of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111161	Thank you. Next is State Secretary at the Ministry of Health Zeljko Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111162	Dear Mr. HS Vice-President, the honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, after this exhaustive discussion, I must say that we in the Ministry of Health in the light of the new situation, have had to adapt a total of 24 laws to this new organisational scheme, not only as regards the State Inspectorate, but also the accession of certain Croatian institutions and agencies and the parent ministries, to which we have received a number of amendments which are the largest, almost exclusively have technical nature and nature from the Government of the Republic and the Legislative Committee that we have fully accepted, here. Thank you very much and all the best.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111163	Thanks, we got this one, first it's over, right? Now the respected secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts will be respected by Mario Antonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111164	I would like to thank all the departments and other stakeholders who have participated in the creation of this Act, in the final statement in front of the motion of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. It is very important to stress that it is much harder to build than to destroy and build this new system, I believe that we will be much more successful, more efficient. To do so, it certainly requires a good structure and coordination, and above all, quality people who will do this work. We must note and be clear to us that the State Inspectorate Act is part of the implementation of the National Reform Plan, I will not now mention other parts of this reform, it is very important to know that the positive shifts in the economy are visible and we believe that by adopting this Act effectively into the system these shifts will be even more concrete, even more significant and will be directed towards the economy and citizens. We all want things to move faster and more efficiently, but all of this depends on us, we are the key people at all levels, so I call on everyone with the will and desire and the highest moral and ethics to approach the implementation of this law into real life and I believe that both citizenship and the economy will be able to valorize this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111165	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on display, first on the presentation of the respected Secretary of State, Plazonic, the esteemed representative Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111166	Dear Secretary of State, you yourself said that only cosmetics are certain amendments. That's why I wanted to point out that it was a matter of unifying the criminal provisions of certain laws, then you would have a much more lively discussion and there would be a lot of opportunities to discuss how to sanction it would be a lot of opportunities to discuss how to sanction it, in this way it's not the Ministry's inspector, but it's a state inspectorate, it's just to say so in a way that has been implemented through these laws, but it's actually a methodology in which the state inspectorate will later function that's not being put into effect. So, as long as we don't have a comprehensive debate to go through these laws to see how someone who's connected to the laws of your respective ministry or from the resolute economy ministry in the same nivelation will be sanctioned only then would we actually open up the right questions and discussions and trust me that you would then have concrete suggestions, this is how we have cosmetics that don't guarantee us a sequel.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111167	The answer of the respected Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111168	This was in principle no longer a replica, but one of your comments to the total of these events today and this united debate I did not use the word cosmetic amendment, because I usually never do, I don't think any amendment is cosmetic, it can be nomotechnical if it's some kind of clarification in terms of grammar or spelling of Croatian language, but I never used the word cosmetic amendment. So this comment was supposed to come at some other time with some other discussion, not what I was talking about here today, and I concluded that part of these 24 amendments to the law so that we could adapt, or that we could apply the work of the State Inspectorate automatically without waiting, and I think it's important that we in the Ministry of Health first came to that, did that job and practically 24 laws adapted to the future situation that would start from 1.4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111169	Thank you for the presentation of State Secretary Antonic we have several replicas, the first respected representative of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111170	Thank you very much. You're saying this law is going to make it. With state inspector Andrija Mikulic, what his colleague Bunjac said, it's nothing that's only part of it, that you'll help the economy. To which economy, you are aware that 2/3 of Croatia is empty, you are aware how many people have evicted, which moves these legislations that you have appointed Pharaoh who will please who knows what interests, whose movements, I do not blame you. You are not yet aware that 2/3 of Croatia is empty, but someone is trying to tell you that. That the economy was destroyed, that everything was destroyed, that these inspections were only used to read haraq from people of entrepreneurs, businessmen, farmers. What is this, what does this law bring new to the rescue of our economies, farmers, entrepreneurs and little man? Bringing them Andri Mikulić now under the Christmas tree, that's their help, that's their greeting to get them out of here. [[We're going to occupy the pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111171	Next, the response of the respected secretary of state, no, thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Pernar, please. Comrade Pernar, don't play games, you answered the word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111172	Dear colleagues, I see that we are working on a precedent today, and this is a precedent to discuss as many as 32 legislative changes in one debate. So here I propose to the chairmans or the rulings that all the agenda that we have until the end of the assembly, or all the points of the agenda, simply put together, if there are perhaps 300, 400, 500 points, and thus it is known that the ruling will accept theirs, that they will reject everything from the opposition, and then we can resolve the debate in one day and we don't have to go to the meetings at all and actually waste time here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111173	Thank you, that's not a replica, but... The next replica of the esteemed [[I'm asking the chairman not to talk on the phone, because I see Mr. Reiner here talking on the phone. Can you explain that, Mr. Rainer?]] Hungary You're going to let a colleague, a colleague of Mader, speak. [[In a way to talk on the phone, this is a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[You're looking for an injury, you're on the phone.]] Allow me. Let your colleague Madjere speak. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, they don't understand./... Please, please, please allow your colleague, Madera, to speak. .../Speakers speak in the same voice, they don't understand./... Sure, here's your colleague, Mader.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111174	Dear Chairman, I see you were confused when the Secretary of State left at the Ministry of Agriculture. So I'm curious because I'm a note why... [[Hello, hello.]] I can't say anything about the chairman, Mr. Chairman, what is this? ... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] [[/Intruder: Why are you talking on the phone, chairing, so what is this, so what is this? Mr. Rainer, hang up the phone.]] [[Intruder: Put the phone down and go outside and talk.]] [[/Intruder: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, good, good.]] [[/Intruder: What is this?]] [[Intruder: You can't have a session and talk at the same time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111175	Can you let your colleague Madera speak?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111176	... To kick Mr. Rainer out to act like you, this is terrifying, this is the bottom of the floor like you're running a session. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111177	I ask you to calm down first, all of you, and let your colleague Madjere say what he wants to say. ... Yeah, but my colleague Mader started talking and you were interrupting him. .../Speakers speak in the same voice./... [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] Here's your colleague, Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111178	The Honorable Chairman, finally to come to order, but I said, you were confused, when the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture left faster and better and came out, so that no one would ask questions. Neither did the economy minister answer the question, why didn't the fisheries inspection go in and out of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I mentioned whether there was another direction to catch something in the blurry, whether it was fished cloudy in the sea or river waters, but somewhere it's safe to hunt in a blur.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111179	Here is what injured the Rules of Procedure, which point and which item.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111180	Thank you very much. Rules of Procedure 33, you have injured the President's Rules of Procedure. 33. Because you've been talking on your cell phone the whole time and you haven't been running a session, which you've given a bad example of running a session, you've made a mess in this assembly, you've been talking on your cell phone when you were supposed to be running a session. You don't care about parliamentary deputies at all, especially worse students, to show them what kind of example this is. I respect you, as an academic title, as a knight of Jerusalem's grave, but your holding a session was disastrous, so it would be good for you to give yourself a warning about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111181	I estimate he's not hurt by his rules of procedure, because absolutely. ... Please turn around. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111182	... Invasion Bulj: Did Chief Plenkovic call you to tell you what you need to do./... If you think he's hurt, I'm telling you to turn around.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111183	Next, we have a replica of the respected representative Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111184	Thank you, Vice President... The State Secretary responds because the observation by the construction profession, construction inspections, that they are not in office of their business, supervision of economic activities, people who are engaged in catering, tourism and service activities. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there was also a question in the debate and here and now I repeat, why exactly a construction inspection must go to the state inspectorate, because it has nothing to do with this part of economic activity, which is legally stated to be the purpose and purpose of the law. And it's also not clear why then... Not all construction inspectors and culture ministry inspectors go, so please respond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111185	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111186	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Honored Secretary of State Antolic, you said that this law is also an aid to our economy, and indeed it should sanction and prevent work on black, gray economy and the like, so I would ask you to reconsider the article, which refers to the request for a search for the apartment. In fact, those citizens who work on black and who do not allow entry into their facility to a tourist inspector do not have to ask for the assistance of the criminal court because I fear that both our courts and our personnel are understaffed and understaffed, but to seek the police's help immediately to enter the facility and find that it is black work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111187	We don't have any answers. Well, then I'm concluding a debate on these 33 laws, and we'll vote on them when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111188	We now move to the Amendments to: - Final proposal of the State Inspectorate Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 459. The draft act is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the club of representatives of HSS, the club of representatives of Glass and HSU. The review of the Amendment was submitted by electronic means. I welcome the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, Mr. Maria Antonic. First Amendment of the club of Representatives of Glass and HSU, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111189	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable MPs and MPs. At the first Amendment, where a construction inspection is proposed not to enter the State Inspectorate, the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the inspection, the construction inspection is united with other inspections within the State Inspectorate to better coordinate between inspections, adequate planning and implementation of supervision and functionality, which will allow better protection of citizens and a higher level of legal certainty for economic operators, which the entities are currently subject to segmented supervision by a number of other inspections.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111190	I thank the Secretary of State. Dear colleague Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111191	Dear Secretary of State, due to the specificity of the work and way of functioning of the construction inspection and the tasks it performs, it would be much more effective to keep the inspection as part of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. The construction inspection must also be in constant contact with the ministry in order to carry out its work in quality, and the separation from the ministry system would slow down and make communication more difficult. This is also an advocate and respected colleague Branko Bačić, president of the HDZ Representatives Club, so we gave the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111192	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. I guess you're looking for a vote, right? Thank you very much. We move to the 2nd Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Glass and HSU. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111193	and the second amendment as the first refers to the same topic as the construction inspection. The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111194	Thank you. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111195	With the same explanation and with the support of counterpart Branko Bačić in the debate, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111196	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Amendment 3 of the HSS Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111197	The 3rd amendment refers to a fishing inspection where it is required to enter a new body. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because a fishing inspection within the Ministry of Agriculture has been authorised by the EU user of the Fisheries and Maritime Fund with an allocated amount of EUR 37 million, and by changing the status of the holder would lose the right to use, the right to funds from that fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111198	Thank you. There's no proposer. We will vote on this amendment. 4th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Glass and HSU. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111199	The 4th amendment also applies as the first and second to the construction inspection. The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as the first and second.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111200	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111201	With the same explanation and with the support of counterpart Branko Bačić, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111202	Thank you. Didn't I see him proposing with you in the amendment? You can't hear. I'm saying I haven't seen Mr. Bacic propose the amendment along with you? .../ intrusion of the Hrelja: no, it's not... and it's not, okay. Thank you very much! We are moving on to the 5th Amendment of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111203	Thank you very much. The 5th amendment requires the Chief Inspector to respond directly to the vice president in charge of the economy rather than to the Prime Minister. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because the State Inspectorate is established as a central state office and as such directly corresponds to the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111204	I thank the Secretary of State. Here's a colleague of the Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111205	As it is suggested, it turns out, in practice, that the Chief State Inspector in the ranks, that he is in the ranks of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia because he directly corresponds to the Government, so we suggest that the Chief State Inspector be responsible to the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. If there were animosities of the former economy president and candidate for state inspector, then there is no more and it is completely removed. We therefore believe that this is a logical amendment and that the Chief State Inspector does not have to burden the Prime Minister for every detail. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111206	You're a very caring colleague of the Hill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111207	Without support from colleagues Bačić/... [[Intruder:]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111208	We're moving on to the Sixth Amendment of the Voice and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111209	The 6th Amendment also refers to the unification of the construction inspection. The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as most of these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111210	I thank the Secretary of State. Dear colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111211	I'm not going to repeat my reasons and name my colleague, but I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111212	Thank you. We are moving on to the 7th Amendment of the Committee on Economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111213	The 7th Amendment of the Committee on the Economy is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111214	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the bill. 8th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111215	The 8th amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111216	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. 9th Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111217	The 9th amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111218	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. 10th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU, here are the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111219	The 10th Amendment refers to the unification of the construction inspection. The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons mentioned above.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111220	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111221	Also, the argumentation of the amendment is the same as in those previous articles requiring a construction inspection with the support of their HDZ colleagues, thereby calling for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111222	I'd like to thank my colleague Hrelja. 11th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Voice of HSU, here are the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111223	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111224	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111225	For the same reason, I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111226	Thank you. 12th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of GLAS and HSU, the Honorable Secretary of State, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111227	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111228	Thank you. My dear colleague, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111229	I demand a vote for the same reasons for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111230	Thank you, colleagues. 13th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Glass and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111231	The amendment is not accepted for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111232	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111233	For the same reason I ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111234	and the 14th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Glass and HSU. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111235	Thank you very much. This amendment requires a postponement of the entry into force of the law on 1 September 2019. The amendment is not accepted for reasons because a working group has been established to prepare all technical items and what is needed in order for the central office to function normally as of 1 April 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111236	Thank you. Dear colleague Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111237	Dear Secretary of State allow us from these benches to have a second look, and we doubt that this whole big deal, it is really not a simple job, to get to the beginning of April 2019, so out of caution, from some other previous times and our negative experiences, we suggest that the law enter into force with the first day of September of the same year, so 2019, so a completely positive approach, so it may be better to think twice and measure once rather than catch a horn that is relatively short. Because you're staying here, you know, after some skiing, you're left with 60 days to realize this. So be careful with that, but since you refused, we're going to ask for a vote on this amendment because we're asking that logically this is a request for an extension of the deadline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111238	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. With this, we have exhausted all the amendments to this Final Proposal of the Law. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Mario Antonic, for showing the amendments submitted. We'll vote on the amendments when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues today have exhausted all the points of the agenda that are scheduled for today. We continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and highly efficient cogeneration, second reading, P.Z. No. 419. I'd like to note that tomorrow is the 12 o'clock vote. Have a nice rest of the day. The session was interrupted at 18.42 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111239	Final proposal of the State Inspectorate Act, second reading, P.Z. Number 459. The motion for an act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. A statement on amendments to the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, the Club of Representatives of the HSS, the Club of Representatives of the Voice and HSU, was held at a session held on 6 December, so yesterday. We are now going to vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Here you go, fellow Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111240	Thank you very much, Presidential Assembly, so before us is a statement, so we heard an attitude related to the amendments. I'm asking nicely for a break on behalf of the Voice and HSU Club for 10 minutes, and now I'm going to explain why I'm looking for a break. [[Intruder: You are looking for a break.]] So, it's about a law that creates a new state inspectorate, as we had the opportunity to hear yesterday, the government of the amendments that we proposed, which we want the construction inspection to be excluded from this great inspectorate is not equally accepted regardless of the debate that was in both the first and second readings. We've equally given an amendment to get the inspector to do something later. But also that the State Inspector should not be the new Deputy Prime Minister, but be responsible to someone else. Given the course of the debate, we are looking for a break on behalf of the Voice and HSU Club, but for the reason that we are also consulting with the HSS Club as well as with the IDS Club, we are tomorrow forming something called the Amsterdam Coalition and we want to make a mutual agreement whether we will continue to participate in this whole story or not. It's really depressing when you see a little bit of the way the ruling majority works, the way it decides, the way someone gives up on the amendment. It's just not good for the Parliament's work either. This is not good for the future of this country, and we want to consult and see what part and way we will participate today in this debate, or rather not a debate but a vote. Point 52 is the same as Household Law. In that law, the ruling majority decided to exercise and show power. We simply do not want to participate and do not want to give the wrong picture to the Croatian public and we want to be a voice of reason. So please pause for 10 minutes for consultation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111241	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 13 o'clock and 35 minutes. Please be here at exactly the right time. It's the 13th 25th hour. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 13.40 HOURS]] Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111243	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. The Live Wall and SNAGA club is pulling out of this debate and voting in protest against corruption in Croatian politics. You don't know who the MPs are anymore, who the opposition representatives are. The laws are passed by procedural violence, and we believe that it is high time that this farce is interrupted and that you call parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111244	A colleague of Lovrinović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111245	Mr. President, on behalf of the Party, let's change Croatia and I declare that I am withdrawing from this circus and do not want to participate in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u111246	Okay. Then let's vote on the final draft law on the State Inspectorate, second reading. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I'm just announcing that we're gonna... The State Inspectorate because we're going from the beginning and voting on amendments of course. [[You don't understand.]] The first amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Voice and HSU which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the second amendment of the Voice and HSU Representatives Club. The government doesn't accept it. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the third amendment of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS. The government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 4 of the Glass and HSU Representatives Clubs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The club of representatives of Glass and HSU also proposed the 5th amendment. The government doesn't accept it. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 6 of the Glass and HSU Representatives Clubs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number seven has been accepted. Amendment number eight has been accepted. Number nine is accepted. Number 10 is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Voice and HSU which the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11 of the same Club of Representatives is not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 12 of the same Club of Representatives is not accepted by the Government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 13 of the Vote and HSU Representatives Clubs is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. And Amendment number 14 of the same Club of Representatives is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to vote on the final draft law on the State Inspectorate. For him, Article 252 is in line with Article 252. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for its adoption, therefore, requires a half-way majority of all MPs to 76 votes. Please, let's vote. I find that with 77 votes in favour and one vote against the State Inspectorate Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119599	We will now, as announced, move on to the Final Proposal of the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 416. Here you go, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119600	Dear Chairman, first of all we are discussing the most important law... Article 33, you again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The most important law in the Republic of Croatia, the Agriculture Act they want now, has been made catastrophically, has been set up in the afternoon, without the minister here, without parliamentary representatives and making fun of the public and farmers. We do not need a secretary of state, who has been ordered to remain silent here, we need a debate on Croatian agriculture. And it's a shame if the agricultural debate continues now, I'm asking for an end to this session. Members of the opposition, colleagues from the ruling, stop this session, this is a mockery with farmers, with this law, although Croatian agriculture and Croatian land have been announced to foreigners. You've destroyed agriculture and now in the afternoon, you want to get this law under the grain. These are not silos when the grain is gone. I'm asking this one to be interrupted. circus which you do because it's agreed to be for tomorrow and it was on the agenda for tomorrow morning's chairman in the morning, so it was. [[You're out of time, pal.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119601	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure and a respected representative. Please calm down and let your colleague Grumo tell you. [[Whatever you want, whatever you want, you have to get a warning, what you're looking at.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119602	Dear colleague Boric, calm down, don't be nervous, don't be nervous, you throw yourself out of the bench all the time. Namely, the chairman, it is clear that you have injured an officer. In 33rd, if you had imposed a point that wasn't planned in the agenda, we all got a hearing schedule for this week, and it's clear that the Agriculture Act was supposed to be under discussion tomorrow. I don't know for what reason you decided to push it in now, I can understand that your opposition colleagues are angry. That an angry colleague of Pernar, that angry colleagues from the SDP, colleagues from the HNS, colleagues from Miro Bulj, forgive this from the HSS, is clear that you have done something that cannot be done. And besides, there is no Minister Tolusic present here. If you're going to discuss this, I call on Minister Tolusic to appear here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119603	So I'm assessing that he's not hurt by his rules of procedure, and I'm going to explain why. So, first of all, it doesn't say anywhere that you should always be a minister and you know it very well and on a large number of laws, the laws defend those who are written to defend them, most often they're state secretaries and that's how it's always been and that's how it is now. So, it doesn't say anywhere that he has to be a minister. Sometimes he's a minister, they're much more of a secretary of state. My friend Grumo, you obviously don't care what I tell you, you did it for your show, of course, because you don't care what I say, so there's no point in answering you, uh, obviously. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. In fact, the unwritten rule on parliamentary and parliamentary work so far has been violated to announce when certain points will be on the agenda, we received a notice a week ago, our colleagues organized themselves so that the maximum preparation for this debate tomorrow and I think it is least incorrect, and I will say no parliamentary and not democratically treated and treated fellow MPs, then we don't need an announcement, then you put whatever you want on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119605	Look, you yourself said it wasn't about breaking the Rules of Procedure, it was about an unwritten rule. So the fact is that in this House the whole series of times were adding points and it wasn't a problem at all. We were a few days ago in this same assembly they added two points, no one said one word. Obviously this has some purpose, some reason, etc. to make such noise about it now. No one prevents anyone from saying, to report on behalf of the club, to discuss it individually, to discuss it finally on behalf of the club, everyone can come here, everyone can discuss it, etc. I really don't see the reason why you're making so many problems, and you're not, say, a few days ago when it's also two exactly added. The same two points were added, no one said one word. No one said a word. If you want, I can take a break now so you can call all your colleagues and come here and have a discussion if you need to by 2:00 in the morning. We can make it by 2:00 in the morning. Well, there's nothing to vote on. [[/Intruder: Let's vote]] What? About what? [[Intruder: We are looking for a vote]] There's no vote on that. Kola Bulj [[Intruder: If you could ask for a vote this morning and now we will vote, most of us]] You cannot come for a pay phone and speak, Comrade Bull, I warn you and take away your word [[/Intruder: On a very important law, do not mock the Agriculture Act.]] I take away your word, please, I took away your word by the end of the day. [[Intruder: First of all, here should be the minister, this is a serious law, in the morning we talk about a very important law]] Here you go, just in order, here you go, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119606	I would like to ask on behalf of all the clubs of MPs if we have long received the weekly schedule and order of the bill that we will discuss, which comes from the president of HS, which is an extremely good practice that has been established and which we all respect and which we have followed and we expect to continue to do so, not as some Rules of Procedure, but as a good parliamentary practice. And I appeal, given that here and some clubs are gone, that there are no MPs who have prepared for this Final Proposal of the Law, that this Law as a whole as the Final Proposal assumes that we must submit amendments during the debate [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] that we couldn't have known all that. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] I appeal for good parliamentary practice Please make this point as announced tomorrow on schedule we don't need one [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] If possible, I appeal to you as vice president of HS [[Thank you very much, this one, this one.]] [[/Intruder: This point was on a weekly schedule, so, uh, no, I don't give any more injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I just don't give it without a clue.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119607	Uh, he was still looking for a respected colleague named Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119608	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I have a proposal for a solution to this situation in the future. [[Intruder: What, what, why]] In the form of a proposal, he wants to tell you that [[Intruder: Look, in what form you want to say, what are you trying to say]] How are we gonna get out of this? [[Agreement: There is no form of proposal]] On behalf of the SDP Club, I suggest you take a break by tomorrow and tomorrow at 9.30 a.m., when we consult, let's get on with this because we see that everyone is nervous, especially the HDZ colleagues who are constantly shouting something. [[Intruder: You must do this in the turn of Rules of Procedure to tell me somehow]] Let's all calm down so we don't have any more hard words and problems, break one [[No, I think you're nervous.]] By tomorrow and tomorrow at 9.30, we'll continue and that's it. [[Employee: My colleague, Djujic, do not violate the Rules of Procedure I ask you nicely]] All right, all right. Dear fellow Boric is very nervous, let the man rest, he didn't seem to be asleep, he came late from Rab, I see he's tired, so let him get some sleep by tomorrow, so we'll continue [[Grmoya Intruder: Without a minister we cannot discuss, please]] [[Intruder: Well, fellow Grumoja, you have a warning by the end of the day anyway, so you can't speak, therefore, please, my colleagues to Grumoji I told you so, yes]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119609	So, the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. .../Intruder Bulj: Fellows and colleagues, this is a very important law here Now we're gonna interrupt the session and I'm asking the guards to remove Mr. Butt. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[Intruder Bulj: This is about agriculture, this is about the peasant you destroyed, this is about the most important law that you want.]] Comrade Bulj, you have been removed from this session by the end anyway. ... [[I don't want to hear him anymore, get him out.]] [[And who are you?]] [[Who are you, who are you, who, tell me who, what are you, you're in charge here, what.]] Please leave the sessions. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can't get the word anymore. Here, you have the right to a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119610	He's been broken. 238, because, in fact, the injury was to my colleague's representative anywhere he was called a shepherd. I think he put something you need to sanction, this is what you've heard yourself say in the end, call a shepherd's representative, I think it's an insult to any man, not a representative only. [[I'm proud of it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119611	... You destroyed agriculture and the village. ... [[Specially enabled.]] Let him carry everything and get it over with. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119612	I'll give a 10 minute break and ask the guards to remove those who disturb the work of the assembly. .../Intruder Bulj: What, you won't, you won't, the peasant is the most important, village and agriculture, and you won't subdue. It's 3:35 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.57 HOURS]] My colleagues and colleagues, since there is unfortunately a continuation of the session violently physically disabled, I will interrupt today's session... And the session will continue tomorrow. [[Applause.]] I'll tell you exactly in which order so that no one has an excuse not to know and cannot prepare. So we'll start with the Final Proposal for the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 411, then Final Proposal of the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 399. Third Final Proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading. P.Z. No. 529. Fourth Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Chamber of Architects and Chambers of Engineers in Construction and Spatial Planning, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. the number 530 and the declaration of amendments which have been submitted so far. This concludes today's session Session interrupted at 1600 hours. [[I would like to thank the opposition here for unity.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119614	Good morning, distinguished parliamentary MPs, respected parliamentary representatives. We're going back to work where we left off yesterday. - Final proposal of the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 416. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, and the Government submitted an amendment that becomes an integral part of the final draft law. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture Tomislav Tolusic. Here you go, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119615	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and parliamentary representatives, the objectives and measures of the agricultural policy are governed by the Final Proposal of the Agriculture Act, and a clear framework for implementing measures is given all to ensure the creation of consistency and improvement of the EU's common agricultural policy framework for the 2014 programming financial period. - 2020. The implementation of EU-level regulations is further strengthened by adding appropriate implementing acts, which are now ensuring the implementation of 13 EU regulations. In addition to that framework for the implementation of measures, it also includes the adoption of national strategic and programming documents with national objectives, priorities, measures and mechanisms of action in the current programming period. The objectives of the agricultural policy are in line with the objectives of the common agricultural policy and with the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Agriculture and with the resources provided in the State budget. The division of agricultural policy measures is basically maintained in three basic categories and is consistent with the division of measures within the framework of the CAP to measures of the first pillar, meaning market-price policies which included direct payments and measures of the common organisation of the market and so on. the second pillar, or rural development, which provides for other measures to achieve the objectives of agricultural policy. The final proposal of the Agriculture Act ensures sustainable development of agriculture, the principles of general food security and the conservation of natural agricultural resources are met, the competitiveness of the agricultural food sector is improved and the social, social, economic and environmental role of agriculture is strengthened. The final draft law improves the current implementation of the common agricultural policy in the Republic of Croatia, regulates the way in which the Republic of Croatia participates in the adoption of international standards for food, alimentary code, which protects the aim of protecting consumer health and ensuring fair food trade procedures. The concepts in the food donation system are more clearly regulated and a legal basis is given for the adoption of a plan to prevent the completion of food waste production. The concept of a self-supply agricultural holding was introduced as one of the components of the broader concept of farmers. Compared to the text of the draft law which passed the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the text of the final draft law made certain differences as a consequence of respecting the views made during the first reading of the bill and the reflection of the motions in order to improve the provisions of the final draft law. In this context, it is pointed out in particular that the final draft law in the national legal system implements Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 543/2011 of 7 June 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 in respect of the fruit and vegetables sectors and the processing of fruit and vegetables and Commission Implementing Regulation (EC) No 2015/1831 of 7 October 2015 laying down rules for the application of Regulation No 1144/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on information and promotion measures relating to agricultural products carried out on the internal market and in third countries. Following which, through further alignment with the right acquis, EU assumptions for their implementation have been provided. With respect to the observations of the Assembly Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, for the sake of clarity of expression, certain provisions have been developed and the full text of the final proposal for a law has been no-technically amended. In a clearer way, delivery of decisions to the paying agency in agriculture, fisheries and rural development towards users of agricultural policy measures has been prescribed and the Ministry of Agriculture decides on complaints from users of measures of agricultural policy against decisions of the paying agency. Provisions have been developed within the framework of the common organisation of the markets in agricultural products, in particular provisions on specific support programmes and rules relating to the placing on the market and of producer organisations. Furthermore, provisions on information and promotion measures as well as the rule of strong alcoholic beverages including the erasure of the provisions on ramatised wines have been further regulated, given that those substances will be regulated by a special regulation or by the Wine Act. In addition, some articles related to a clear statement of the provisions relating to the application of the European regulations have also been updated, more clearly and in more detail, to the tasks of the competent and implementing body and to the conditions relating to binding persons in the implementation of certain European regulations to which the law is called. A more detailed system of counselling of farmers as public and private advisory activities has been further implemented, the terminology harmonisation of the inspection control provisions has been deleted, the provisions governing the inspection as a body of the Ministry of Agriculture as well as the provisions governing the issue of inspection supervision covered by the Proposal for a Law on the State Inspectorate and, in the light of the proposed normative solution governing the establishment of the State Inspectorate and the conduct of inspection operations. Infringement provisions for natural and legal persons shall be broken down by type of offence and shall comply with the normative part of the rules. Penalty entities as possible perpetrators of the offence are separated in separate items, taking into account the regulation of the different limit of fines for a craftsman and a natural person performing another independent activity or a natural person. Infringement provisions correct the regulation of infringements by simultaneously calling on both the article of the law and the article of the Regulation. Coordination has also been carried out to avoid overlapping offences with the relevant criminal offences under the general rules governing criminal offences and criminal sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119616	Let's go with the replicas. The first is a respected colleague, Chikotic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119617	Dear Minister, I'm interested in one thing, you're bringing a series of measures to the Agriculture Act, but unfortunately I have to say they're just implementing acts. At this moment, the Republic of Croatia does not have a agricultural strategy, although in this Law you are calling on a number of articles for the same. On the basis of which document will you have when creating a common national policy Croatia's position when we do not have a strategy for the development of agriculture in the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119618	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119619	I thank the distinguished representative, Mrs. Sonja Cikotic. We have guidelines right now, so strategic guidelines, and two months ago, I think, I apologize if I miss the exact date, we have agreed on a strategy with the World Bank that unfortunately hasn't been drawn up in the last 20 years, and that injustice will be corrected in parallel with the adoption of a new financial framework, a new financial period we are doing a new strategy, or the only strategy that has not been made so far, so everything will be fine and everything will be under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119620	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119621	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, Minister, I'm glad you're here this morning, that you're here this morning, so you can answer your questions. Yesterday we had one will where she tried to put this important point for our farmers past the announcement and without your presence. Farmers couldn't hear the answers to the important questions. Here's a question I have, so you're introducing self-sustained agricultural economies, I'm asking why you define them, whether these smaller economies are going to lose some rights and there are thousands and thousands of them. And if they were going to be in one I'd say a worse position than a family farm. I think that for all the people who look at these questions, the answer should be given.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119622	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119623	Thank you, Mr. Grumoja. On the contrary, the point is to define a self-supply economy is that these economies can, both in the present and in the future, achieve certain types of support, and that is actually the intensity of all of this and that they can go into the market in a easier and better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119624	Comrade Lovrinović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119625	Thank you. Dear Mr Minister, the Committee on Agriculture and the Party Change Croatia has carefully analysed the proposal for your law. We've come to the following conclusions. There has never been a smaller agricultural production than Croatia's independence, there has been a strong decline, the family economies continue to fall rapidly, the milker was in 2002 60 thousand now has 3750. Why don't you pay 100% support to agriculture instead of 80%? Your agricultural policy comes down to the following, the destruction of agriculture in Slavonia in the first step, in the second formation of advice to help Slavonia. Don't paint us no more, not just us, but farmers, you don't have agricultural policy, you improvise, the farm never stood worse in Croatia but now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119626	Answer, here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119627	Thank you to the honourable parliamentary representative, I must agree with you on certain observations. I agree that agriculture needs help, 20 years of politics definitely not being properly conducted in the agriculture sector independently of which the political party was on the option. Today, the result of the unhappiness or neglect of taking care of the Croatian farmer is these results that you are talking about today. And we definitely need to change something about it and change everything. When I come to the field and you come to the field, farmers see optimism, see light at the end of the tunnel, regularly pay off incentives, the state gives beyond what it gets from the EU a large amount of money and gives as much as it can, 4 billion kunas at EU annual level, national funds, regular payment of incentives at the annual level in this year over 500 million euros in open competitions from rural development programmes, 500 million euros in last year, a series of agreed projects and all other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119628	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119629	Thank you very much. Ministers Croatia is approaching 3 billion euros in food imports. One of the largest import products is pork over a billion kuna. In this document, i.e. This law does not mention pig husbandry as in any form whatsoever in strategic terms for producers. We don't have pigs anymore, and we've destroyed pigdogs to the fullest. The fact is, at this point in time, we've got raw fields, we've got a destroyed piglet. What are your measures that will encourage us not to reach exports of 3 billion euros, importing 3 billion euros, with the comparison of 2017 we introduced more than 2 billion kunas in half a year compared to 2017. So your measurements so far have not yielded results, and what will happen to pig husbandry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119630	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119631	Thank you, Mr. Bull, for asking questions. You had a debate in the House and a debate on the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, so there you could see the complete story of both cattle and swine and all the other things that are listed in the livestock sector. If there is something of a priority to the Ministry of Agriculture and myself personally in this mandate, it is cattle farming that we are definitely all here together in this House and in the Government and in the previous governments brought to a very low level, we absolutely agree. The priority in the rural development programme is the livestock sector and so are pigs, producer organisations established in the sector, in the pig-goose sector also have full support from the agriculture ministry 100 000 euros annually means 500 000 euros over 5 years, the organisation of the market. Certain other support provided in the pig husbandry sector should definitely allow for further development. Imports agree but we must raise awareness of our citizens, Croatians are buying these imported products, we are going forward to buy Croatians, and if someone is fighting for it, the Ministry of Agriculture is fighting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119632	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119633	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Green Book is also important with two aspects. First, it can be a solid basis for you to develop a future financial strategy for the future financial perspective from 2021 to 2024, I think. On the other hand, it may be a guideline or a guideline to connect these databases, which there are many, experts call silo databases, because it is difficult, some data are difficult to transfer from one base to another and become useless to us and of course I'm outsmarting you now, there's a Green Book by Minister Jakovina while he was, he stopped betraying himself. These amendments to the Law, in fact, to this Law in relation to the previous Law, in the article, I think that 137, is 139, now that Green Paper is no longer going to the Government and to the Parliament for approval, but is simply being passed. What about the Green Book? The deadline for bringing the Green Paper to the end of the 12th, until the half of the 12th month, has been moved, what will happen to it and will we have it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119634	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119635	Thank you Mr. Sagar for asking questions. The point is just faster adoption from the Green Paper, from all the regulations that, or all the data that are inside, data is still being collected, we are being used absolutely to make the Strategy and all the things we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119636	Comrade Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119637	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we had a conference on the common agricultural policy in 2021-2027, and I'm interested in what happens to direct payments and whether they remain within the same range as they have been in, until now, and what about rural development measures, and I'm interested in Croatia's position regarding the period 2021-2027, and I'm talking about reducing direct payments to medium, large farmers, so what is our position on this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119638	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119639	Thank you, Mr. Križanić, for asking questions. Croatian farmers will have the same in the future, but I expect greater incentives than they now have in 2018. In any case, no incentives will fall when we talk about direct payments. The new way of planning is made in 2021, so there will be no direct payment of the rural development programme, but will be a Strategic National Plan that we have already started working parallelly, although there is time until 2021. We definitely want to develop small and medium-sized farmers, but do not kill or choke and large, so there are certain restrictions today when we talk about paying for incentives for large farmers, but some capping as suggested by the Commission, it is not actually acceptable to almost any Member State, so that we will have our limitations and what we want to limit the voluntary expression of the interest of a Member State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119640	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119641	Thank you very much, Your Honor. By entering the European Union, Croatian agricultural producers expected better times, but we see that Croatian agriculture-oriented policy did not respond, and we actually got producers... , that is why you would refer to what you said when you said the Government is now giving as much as it can>, has given it as much as the European Commission has allowed us to the 100% amount that other member states have, or what do you think you can single out? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it is crucial to clarify whether our agricultural producer receives the same amount of support, the same amount of incentives as any producer in a Member State of the European Union. I think that's the key, because we still haven't reached 2010, when the support is paid at 3.5 billion, we still haven't made it to that amount, even though we are getting a bigger share from the European common agricultural policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119642	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119643	Thank you, Mr. Panenic. Well, you don't get the exact information that you're talking about, especially when you refer to yourself in 2010, that's when the incentives are paid, all the investment measures that have been paid, if we're going to look at it that way, then at the annual level, we're paying about 5.5 billion kuna, if we're going to look at it that way, so you definitely don't get the exact data when you combine it, because you combine two absolutely wrong things. Croatia is now getting, when we talk about Croatian farmers, their incentives they receive are among the larger or the largest at European Union level. The European Union gives a certain amount of money, Croatia adds to that part, as far as it can, the result is, let's say last month a billion and a hundred million kuna advances of incentives, until now the biggest advance ever paid when we talk about an advance for Croatian farmers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119644	And the last replica, Comrade Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119645	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, over the past 27, 28 years, Croatia has invested an extremely large amount of money, billions of kunas in agriculture, and I think we can agree that the situation is worse than it was at the beginning, I would say, those stories. Of course it's not your fault, it's not your associates' fault, it's all the agriculture policy in the last 27 years. I'd say that, here's your good intentions, to start encouraging and without encouraging agriculture, there won't be any results. I have a particular problem that I've been convinced of myself, you're talking about micro and macro entrepreneurs and loans in HAMAG, here's a little while I've been calling HAMAG, just to make sure that one entrepreneur complained to me, he asked me for a loan, the loan hasn't been settled in five months, I'm now calling the clerk there and I just want to make sure, he says so don't, wait a minute, you're not still in line. If something is going on, credit approval 5 to 6 months, you have to agree that it really doesn't make any sense, so please, if you can intervene in that sense. I apologize for the length.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119646	Thank you. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119647	Well, I can't intervene, but I can answer your incorrect remarks correctly. So, loans to support farmers, if we talk about it, for micro and small loans to farmers, means loans to up to EUR 25000 and up to EUR 50000, where the interest for the dairy sector is 0.1% and for the other agriculture sectors between 0.5% and 1%. The requirements for these loans have been filed since the beginning of the ninth month. So, theoretically, it couldn't have been possible that someone was waiting for her for five months. When applications have been filed since September of this year. So you're completely wrong about that. And please check next time the data you're talking about and a good part of the request has already been approved and a good part of the loan has already been realised, not all of them, but all of them have the minimum conditions that interest requires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119648	Thank you, will the committee's rapporteurs take the floor? If not, then I open the debate, the first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague, Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119649	President-in-Office of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, today's debate, we see that we are all, and we can say, ready as advocates to discuss this subject, that the level of importance, yesterday and through that debate that may not have been appropriate at some point, but certainly encouraged the public to think about agriculture. And let's stay within agriculture, because just considering the actual measures and proposals of the ministry, we can come up with a solution, which can actually be a strategic solution. Because in this very document of the Minister, you mention that agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy. But this strategy needs to be felt, so our agricultural producers, when they talk about the Agriculture Act, need to understand it. Frankly, by reading this document I understand, I understand that we have made one act, which translates a number of regulations of the common agricultural policy, but what is already mentioned is difficult to see, which is actually a national policy. What is our policy, which this policy may be, and we are conflicting our views, with the European Commission, where we are encouraging and pressing the European Commission, to accept that there are EU member states that have failed through this time that we have entered as a new member, to reach the standard of other countries. And exactly my question, when I asked you, was what we're going to do at the moment, when we need to compare the Croatian agricultural producer and its competitiveness with another agricultural producer, did we really give the maximum. That's why I asked you if yours gave maximum, I didn't get an answer. I didn't get an answer, that we're paying the maximum possible amount, which is scheduled, by the accession contract, that's where it's put, unfortunately, it can. If that was where the sea was standing, then you wouldn't be asking that question today. Ugl. These measures we've seen and the right measure is actually what we should in some way point to, we should point out that we exist as a nation. If we are among the measures of agricultural policy, first of all we are calling for a common agricultural policy, a direct payment policy that through that policy or rural development measures, then somewhere in the end national then we are showing that we are actually trying to follow something small, but it is visible from a budget that has been adopted recently. What came to my eye, when we speak to one common position, is not only the position of the Croatian government and cannot be the position of the Croatian government, but all levels, primarily the political ones, those who have public money, must recognise the strategic importance of agricultural production. Well, then, and you listed in this document, that one of the measures of agricultural policy, is also the source of funding, in the budgets of the unit of local, regional self-government. If we were to analyse these budgets now, then it would prove that we have desperate situations, that we have counties that are a couple of million pounds a year, two, three million dollars to encourage agriculture, it's certainly not a strategic set, nor is it a common platform on which we should encourage agricultural production. How many units of local self-government does not encourage, although from the programme of availability to state agricultural land, it is clearly indicated, but if we look at which amount it brings directly to producers, through forms of support, through support of small value, then we would see that we are not as a society, up to what amount, that we are even talking about the strategic definition of agriculture. Unfortunately, too often we listen to the desire to restore agriculture, that the average age of agricultural producers is becoming more unfavourable. And then we talk about young people and looking at EU policy, they clearly defined 40 years here somewhere, although our age is over 50, and still these young people and 50 would say, that they are young enough for us, but when we set the limit that this is for the use of certain support, 5 years of establishment, then they ask questions, which with those who started out as very young, who were young enthusiasts, who were finishing agricultural colleges or some and at 20 and which year they started, they used 5 years of founding, they don't really exist for us. So we need to find ways, how to encourage them, not to be victims of one system, which is set at EU level, but definitely when we look at us, it has no simple basis for future growth. I've noticed it in art. 40th one finding where it is stated that the ministry is organising the agricultural product market. Unfortunately, what we can see is, in fact, that this statement, I would say is extremely incorrect. There may be a good will somewhere, but looking at our market for agricultural products, the only thing we can conclude is that it's unorganized. We are caused by key problems precisely from market disorganization, where the fluctuations that occur, suggest that there is no control or indication at all, how strategically respond to the challenges of the EU common market and the global market and even in the right reading we have, in fact, what? Our goal was to reduce the negative differences compared to the EU, which was, I would say, a very limited thinking, not only of the EU, so we have a number of goods coming from other countries, so we have now a crisis, we have very cheap wines coming from Macedonia that threaten our production, so some products from neighbouring BIH come, so imports from some distant countries, products, so now we go back to the crisis we had, the crisis that is actually now for the sugar sectors, the milk sectors, what are we going to answer there, how are we going to deal with, so it's just when we put the special rules on the market that will be with the sugar sector, if this particular rule threatens our production that we offer alternatively? Are we going to end up one day like our colleagues in Ireland recently said that they were left without a single hectare of sugar beet surface, without any sugar, whether these special rules lead us into an unfavourable position, or are we going to have a national strategy to jump in and milk and dairy products, a topic that has been very much talked about, that we see that we simply haven't managed to solve, and that's what I would say, one of the key points because the growth of agricultural production exclusively on wartime cultures, will not provide enough employment and not only that, but also not to provide enough added value, we will have very low yields in agricultural production and thus mark Croatia exclusively as a poverty base, while all production plants will move to more developed countries, and I am also recently talking about where we, as a border country of the EU, in fact, have little of this common market, because we have a number of threats on our borders and the EU-specific market that we have to the very much of Croatia. My colleague Cikotic mentioned the issue of the strategy for the development of agriculture, I am glad to see that if we have received such a response that the strategy for the development of agriculture will be made, then it turns out that many of these laws that have been passed are actually wandering, it is a wish that such a change might happen, and it is precisely when assessing the effects there is no strategic determination and I hope that this strategy will not only bring future development of agriculture but also measure the impact of all the laws that you... Because you can't just be called 20 years behind you because you've been a minister for two years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when we talk about the percentages of impact on agricultural policy, and you're almost 10% on that, we can't talk about what happened 20 years ago, 10 years ago, this is your mandate, your results, the strategy that your government will bring, and you need to have clear indicators, then we can finally say that I don't know, in rural areas there's no reduction of unemployment going on to increase the volume of production, but unfortunately the joy of moving, the migrations that will become a key obstacle for us because the labour market can no longer meet even the demands of current production and of some investor, some Hyundai who should come, put your finger on a location that can provide such a type of employment to meet the needs of such gigans with a few thousand workers who need it with all other cooperatives. I would warn of something that I noticed about the proposal to advise farmers where I welcome that within the consultation, private advisory companies are also allowed to work as such because I believe that they will, in particular, have larger farmers who need more attention, where they have certain problems on a daily basis, find an interest in hiring private consultants who will provide them with services that give them a greater advantage. However, here I have to note that in private consultation you have determined, so with private bodies, you have determined theirs, you have said academic titles where there is in fact only something that is closely related to agricultural production and when we look at the law on Croatia's agricultural and forestry advisory services, there is a number of consultations that the advisory services will give, and I also don't know about forests, it is also related to certain records related to a number of other matters, and finally, Regulation 1306/2013, states that Member States can set up advisory systems, does not give an absolute advantage to any restrictions and they state that... The consultation may include the re-use of agricultural economies, diversification, risk management, mitigation of climate change here, I read both economic professions and other professions, and I can also give very high quality advice and I believe that one body was and if it is private, it has an agronomic profession, an economic profession and some other profession, it can certainly be a better quality consultant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way we will convert mmi to actually, individualize it into certain experts of agronomy but these others, then we will have to actually provide them with services instead of creating real teams, we are creating new limitations so that here I would ask you once again to consider not putting restrictions or providing advisory services or farmers should actually respond to all their needs because there is a wide range. In the end, a number of agricultural producers have a problem with requests for direct payments, come to offices where there is much to be prepared, ask for support as well as in preparing their applications for rural development measures, it is not just an agronomic profession, it will appreciate the agronomic profession, I think that there should also be one width here. He would warn of Article 100, which reads where development-experienced business from the delirious circle is mentioned, again, means meeting minimum technical conditions for construction, I further believe that this is certainly not an area to be dealt with by the Ministry of Agriculture but is an area to be dealt with by the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the Ministry of Agriculture must be the one to give guidance and determine certain settings, so that the competent authority can then uniquely adopt regulations and define production. In the end, I would say that I am the law, unfortunately, left a number of questions. The expectation that such a law and such a title are created in the public, especially among Croatian agricultural producers, will certainly not be fulfilled is the key word in the strategy for the development of Croatian agricultural production, which is what we want, how we will fight for it and how we will determine what national measures are being taken is the common agricultural policy exactly and has a common position towards all agricultural producers in each part of the EU. But unfortunately this also suggests that our agricultural producers do not have the same starting base and that through such a policy they will not be able to evenly see that rural development measures that are more generous to the Republic of Croatia do not produce effects that can respond to the challenges. Still our agricultural production cannot compete, nor will this technological improvement be able to respond to the real challenge and then we will be able to spend billions on imports of pigmeat and other agricultural products. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119650	We're going to another club, a HDZ representative club, a respected colleague Josip Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119651	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you. We have before us a proposal for the Agriculture Act. It is illusory to expect that one law could change Croatian agriculture overnight. However, it is certain that a few sentences should be made about this Law, as well as in every country, and in the Republic of Croatia, the Agriculture Act is the roof law of agricultural production. It should stem from measures and guidelines of the common agricultural policy, and the main act for its development should be this famous national strategy of agriculture and rural development. Since we have all spoken in the strategy of agriculture and rural development for many years, we still do not have it. Regardless, we are passing the laws because we have to bring them, re-appeal them from this place, to the Minister and the Ministry, so that this strategy is drawn up, so that we can discuss this document and then be the basis for future agriculture laws. Perhaps the interest in agriculture would be greater both by the public and by the representatives. Yesterday we had a play for this pay phone, I'm afraid it didn't produce fruit, that there would be a respected colleague, now full of Parliament, I thought there would be 150 MPs here today, unfortunately there's nothing more of us than there were yesterday, even less. In fact, we know that livestock production accounts for 38% of agricultural production. For agriculture, we like to say that it is the strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia, it is certain that the needs and amounts and balances of certain agricultural products should be dealt with as regulatory mechanisms in situations which drastically bounce from normal ones. As is the direction of the movement we want to move, not that we are carried by the verse. This is how countries operate in an environment that intervenes with regulators in difficult situations. Smart countries, on the other hand, only take care of the sufficient supply of agricultural products and that should be an argument to us, especially to you, Mr. Minister, in negotiations for the common agricultural policy in 2021, 2027, therefore, the imperative should be just enough for us. For example, precisely because of the difficult protection of its agricultural production, neighbouring countries which are not EU members bring the Prelevmans to imports so that their market parameters are not disrupted, others, as EU members, such as Austria do so through the informal weekly regulation of the market. On the other hand, because of the heavy sale of cattle and low prices, our interest in tov, especially animals and pigs and heroes, is getting smaller. And so from year to year there are amplitudes of surpluses and shortages of agricultural products on the market, in any case there are fewer cattle, there are more agricultural products that are here in the Republic of Croatia then there is no one to spend. The livestock production is extremely sensitive and has added value, and therefore we have to provide excellent care for it. It is a multiplier and of it living both the food industry and the trader and carriers and construction. The level of resolution of these... within the sector, we should address our agricultural production strategy. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it doesn't happen to us that one year everyone sows wheat because last year was a good price, the second year of corn, so it's not a good verse. In the strategy, it is extremely important to provide national funds for withdrawing a full envelope of EU funds, especially for... The 2021 period, 2027, as this will be an extremely important period for the survival of agricultural production. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, a major contribution to this sector is the new VAT law which significantly facilitates the business of farmers, and I hope that someone will say so today. As a result of the 13% VAT gap, this will make the product more accessible to the end consumer, and the producers will be more liquid because of the lower VAT, by reducing VAT to fresh meat, fish, eggs, and live animals, domestic agricultural production is directly supported. Regardless of the above mentioned comment, the Law, because of many other moments, has to be passed both by intention and by the way of the Law, is good. Due to the difficulties observed in the implementation of the applicable Agricultural Act, and in particular the implementation of implementing acts in the EU Regulation, the proposal for a law further regulates the measures and objectives of the agricultural policy, the sources of funding regulate the measures and objectives of the agricultural policy of the sources of financing, determines agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. Among the two readings, proposals from the Agriculture Committee related to the clearer regulation of how to deliver payment decisions to the Agency for Agriculture and Rural Users were accepted, then a clearer regulation on how to maintain agricultural areas and clearer criteria for carrying out user consultation activities. That's good. Furthermore, the division of agricultural policy measures on the basis of the sharing of measures under the common agricultural policy on the first pillar of direct payments and the second pillar of rural development, along with other measures to achieve the objectives set out in the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Areas, is envisaged. The financing of agricultural policy measures is possible from EU funds, the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia and the budget of units of local and regional self-government. The Ministry of Agriculture is appointed as the national competent authority for tasks related to the code of alimentarius and assumes the role of national contact point for the code of alimony of the Croatian Institute of Standards. The food donation system is prescribed. The government of the Republic of Croatia, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, will bring forward a plan to prevent and reduce food waste. The procedures for the protection of the name of agricultural food products are simplified, the authorisation of control bodies in organic production is more clearly determined. The register of farmers, the paying agency shall combine data on farmers, the data shall be used to report financial support controls and measures of agricultural policy, monitoring the state of production and policies. These data are used to control the financial support of other measures of agricultural policy, which include the obligation to register farmers for extremely sensitive sectors of agriculture. So far, they have been oil, tobacco, dairy cows and breeding pigs, this law does not state which are extremely sensitive sectors, and I want to make it clear that it is good, that the olive oil sector, tobacco, slightly weaker dairy cows, while the support for breeding pigs until the last year was 200 530 kuna, now it all comes down to deminimities of support that mean something to small farmers, medium and large, I am sorry that in this law we could not implement and appeal to the minister again to do something about it because the re-promotion of everyone in livestock production, and also the national wealth of every country. As for the production-related support, it is an incentive to produce, so it is new in this law to encourage milk and dairy products, beef and veal, sheep and goat meat, instead of cows in production, milk and cows and sucklers, tow heroes and sheep and goats, which I consider to be good. Of course, on this subject, with the counselling and education of farmers, the interest should be as large as possible production per unit of surface that is extremely modest with us. In accordance with the provisions of the production-related support where production is now being encouraged, and not animal farming, we have adapted ourselves to larger ones, we have proposed that we hire an agronomist at major OPGs or more of them together or in agricultural companies or in cooperatives. This would raise production, make it possible to hire agronomials, unfortunately, they don't have where to work nowadays because OPGs don't need them and companies, big cooperatives no longer do. I am sorry that this proposal has not been adopted, perhaps it will be resolved by some other sublaws. Clearer definitions of administrative-inspective procedures, official controls and controls of the Payment Agency related to administrative control and control on the ground and well-defined rules on strong alcoholic wines and aromatised wine products are defined. Issues related to the placing on the market of natural mineral spring waters, the recognition process and the tasks of the competent authorities shall be settled. This bill improves the framework for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, has a good direction of movement, needs to be adopted for transparency and synchronisation with the EU legislation, but we expect as soon as possible the Strategy for Agricultural Production and Rural Development of the Republic of Croatia as clear guidelines and answers to which Croatia's agriculture is heading, as well as the firm position of the Republic of Croatia in the negotiations for the Common Agricultural Policy of the EU in 2021-2027, as this year will be crucial for the survival of Croatian agriculture. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119652	Thank you, we are now going to the third session of SDSS Representatives' Club, respected colleague Dragana Jeckov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119653	I thank the President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr Minister with fellow Members, so as we had the opportunity to hear in the debate of this proposal in the first reading, this new bill regulates the implementation of 12 new EU regulations and ensures the continuation of the measures identified in the framework of the latest reform, so-called. common agricultural policies. The new law will improve the legal framework governing, in the broadest sense, the area of agriculture and agricultural policy, the framework for implementing agricultural policy measures on the provision of state aid in the area of agriculture and rural development that must be in line with EU rules. All this is certainly important for continuing to provide support in agriculture, and it would be very little about these aids, although from year to year the share of agricultural policy in the EU budget is still going to a direct payment in agriculture and market measures in the context of the reduction of the support still around 31% of the EU's total budget. 11% is leaving for rural development, and 16 additional funding from the regional fund is intended for rural development objectives. In the upcoming financial period from 2014 to 2020, the proposed objectives of the EU's reformed common agricultural policy include 3 themes, food, the environment and rural areas. For this reason, it is necessary to lay down more clearly or more precisely the regulation of certain provisions of the applicable regulation, in particular with regard to food donations, the provision of support from the state budget, the implementation of measures under the rural development programme, the jurisdiction and the conduct of inspections, and to regulate certain areas which have not been regulated so far by one of the legal provisions. For the Republic of Croatia, rural development policy, of course, is extremely important because 40% of the population lives in rural areas or on average, therefore, compared to the EU, it is about 24%. In doing so, the ratio of the population to more than 60 and less than 20 years in rural areas is more unfavourable than in urban and other natural dying, migration and youth towards cities due to lack of professional opportunities, all of which only worsens the demographic, economic and development picture of rural areas. Therefore, the proposal for this Agriculture Act will seek to ensure sustainable development of agriculture, to achieve the principles of general food security and to preserve natural agricultural resources. To improve and increase competitiveness, and to strengthen the social and social, economic, ecological role of agriculture. The new Law further provides for a new organisational form of farmers, introduces international standards for food, guidelines and codes of good practice which are the main purpose of protecting consumer health and ensuring fair food trade procedures. Of course, one of the most important newspapers is the adoption of a plan to prevent and reduce the production of waste from food at country level. The proposed Law defines quality schemes for agricultural and food products, conditions for legal and natural persons engaged in organic production and treatment related to administrative inspection of official controls and others. In my first reading debate, I pointed out that in relation to the procedures of the prescribed article. The decision adopted pursuant to this Act for the users of the measures adopted under this Act shall be taken by the paying agency in fact... that they are not administrative acts. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It should be pointed out here that irregular acts are, in fact, making it difficult or impossible to enforce the decisions taken directly because they do not have the property of the executive administrative act. The dysfunction of such a system is more closely demonstrated through procedures, for example. in respect of decisions on the reimbursement of the paying agency's funds. Furthermore, I said that it was necessary to make clear how the decision was to be delivered, so I was talking about the need to describe in more detail, when it comes to delivery, whether it is by email or by mail, and it is complemented in this second reading. Furthermore, I pointed out that this legislative proposal should certainly encourage the integration or association of small agricultural producers, which would affect their competitiveness, and in this respect it is also responsible in other readings, therefore, in the final proposal of the Law that it is actually a satisfactory basis and an incentive framework for voluntary association. I pointed out that the obligation to prescribe agronomial employment should be seriously considered, through the provisions of this Act, as contributions per unit of area in the Republic of Croatia to agricultural production are far lower than Europe and certainly that the competitiveness of our agriculture should be far better and that there is certainly a negative trend in reducing the number of interested students to enroll in the Facultys, Agricultural and Veterinary Medicine. Although I think this proposal is good, it is not taken into account because it is interpreted that there could be unfounded restrictions on entrepreneurial freedoms. I'm going to have a few more comments just concerning the definition of certain concepts, and so the definition of only the farm supply economy, I'm not going to read the definition, we know, I'm thinking, so if it's already going on the definition of a new organisational form, in this case only a supply holding, then it needs to be defined in quality and more precise terms, first of all, to define the concept of the main profession, or the main activity, but based on clear and measurable criteria, such as, for example, the origin of the total income, the income obtained from agriculture, the amount of work spent on the agricultural holding, etc. In addition, if only the supply economy deals primarily with production for its own needs, then also for replacement and sale, a condition must be delivered precisely which at least part of the production, e.g. super-half, it has to serve its own needs. There are still a number of criteria that can be more precisely defined by these economies. In any event, the size of the holding could also stand as a condition of the definition of only the supply economy. Furthermore, I would certainly consider this opportunity to point out that, therefore, the operational programme for national minorities and its activity in 2018, in areas which are demographic, economic and social weakened, are significantly below the national development average, ensuring greater financial support and specific development, precisely the development instruments that we had the opportunity to use will certainly provide minimum standards of municipal and social infrastructure and therefore, in these areas which are still areas of special national concern, in fact to improve life and stay, and to work on agriculture in those areas. Also, through these measures, there is a desire to praise family farms that cannot participate in existing credit lines, in some way through these instruments, and it is certainly something to be commended, here and for us is certainly a good competition, which is the most direct aid to the OPGs in which, of course, the members of the national minorities are involved, its realization goes with satisfactory dynamics and it is certainly something to be pointed out and to be commended, and what the Ministry of Agriculture certainly serves to honor, and in addition, the SDSS Club will support the Final Proposal of the Agricultural Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119654	Thank you. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDP, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119655	Thank you, Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. First of all, here, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with what happened yesterday, the esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, I think we should stick to the schedule, as it has been established, in order for the discussions to be more quality, in order for our proposals to be heard by the right people. I don't support what was a little circus here for a pay phone, but it's simple and that's how we just stick to order the way we agreed, and how we actually did with this order of debate and we got it. I think this is the right way to discuss agriculture, and yesterday it was the way it was, I think it's more your fault, it's your fault than the ones who stopped the further debate. That's it. The circus was only in the papers because they simply misread it, I don't think that's right, so I'm asking you in the future to stick to it, and when we're getting ready for the debate that we know exactly when we're doing it. Furthermore, Your Honors Minister, I told you in the opening line that those loans that are in HAMAG are not being settled properly and quickly enough, you've replicated me, and I couldn't tell you that it just started on the 9th month. I'm not talking about those nine-month micro and macro loans, I'm talking about those loans in HAMAG that have been being settled for years. You've been leading this country for two years, and we can't talk just in the last three, four months, I've told you about concrete examples of a new entrepreneur who in the fifth month asked for a loan, not a farmer, who asked for a loan and after five months didn't get an answer, I'm talking about it, I'm not here to criticise for criticism, but to tell you well-meaning that we all have to take care of the economy together, and you in your farm portfolio, so I'm asking you to inform yourself about HAMAG's approval, approval for micro and small entrepreneurs. It takes four, five months, or four months, five months to get an answer. That's not good. A farmer or entrepreneur is not asking for a loan that he has to wait five, six months for an answer, but is asking for a loan to start solving his problems as soon as possible. Here was the replica on this replica of yours, so please check, well-meaningly, that the bureaucrat who works there at HAMAG is not solving it for five months and it's asking for a five-month answer. It just has to go a lot faster, much better, I specifically know that in HBOR it goes better and to praise the people who work there, whether they're guilty people, because there aren't enough, because they don't do a good job, I don't know it, you should check it out, but anyway it doesn't go at that pace as it should be. Here, so much for that part. This law is passed, here I have collected it for four things, before only 13 regulations, here are those that are not in the existing law, we have to adapt, and that's definitely something that we support. The European Union is our reality, we must adapt to the laws that apply throughout the European Union. Next, the introduction of the code of alimenatrius. Okay, all right, there's a lot of talk on that, on the page especially 132 about it, okay. The prevention of the production of food waste remains defined only by the supply of the agricultural holding as a natural person and compliance with the OPG Act. What we disagree and here and I will publicly say, we ask that in this law there must be a provision that the difference of 100% of the right of direct support currently paid from the circus is 20% less, unlike the other producers in Europe, to sort of be compensated from the Republic of Croatia's budget. In order for us to be in the same position in three years as all other farmers in Europe who receive 100% of the payments. I think it is the task of you as Minister and your associates, that our farmers be in the same position as the other farmers in the European Union. Furthermore, the current absorption of funds in the European Union, we are in 22nd place from 28 countries. Surely we cannot be satisfied with such a ladder and with our position on that scale. The 22nd place of 28 countries, after the absorption of funds, cannot be satisfactory. Clearly, someone must always be the first, someone has to be the last, let's try harder to be the first, the most absorption, because we need it the most, the youngest country in the European Union, the least we've certainly pulled for our farmers, or we just haven't had enough time, some countries have been doing it for decades, and we, we're just coughing in it. How does the government of the Republic of Croatia plan to stop the negative trends in agriculture? The DZSS data source speaks, reducing production in almost all segments, especially in livestock, and you said that livestock farming is one of the cornerstones of Croatian agricultural policy, here, does the government have any strategy to put this resistor on its feet? Is the minister aware that for his term of office, the results in agriculture are getting worse from year to year and what are they going to do about it other than the adoption of formal laws as its Agriculture Act that essentially changes nothing? On page 131 of this law, it is written to me, and this is how it remains, it says, the Final Proposal of the Agriculture Act regulates the objectives and measures of agricultural policy and provides a framework for the implementation of measures, while ensuring the implementation of the EU Regulation, as well as the adoption and adoption of national, strategic and programming documents. So here I'd like to pray that we finally start working on the agriculture strategy, as far as I know, it's working, it's in progress, let's see it, that we know which way we're going. I believe that this strategy will bring a lot of good to Croatian agriculture, but here, I will know about it when I see that strategy and analysis of the situation. Why is the agricultural and forestry advisory services being abolished? Will the same number of people in the same places work better if they are part of the Ministry of Agriculture? All employees will go to the ministry if it was intended to make savings. Then what the savings are said to be, is this another agricultural reform that comes down to change... I must now say that we have 13 officials, ministers, three secretary of state and nine assistants at the Ministry of Agriculture right now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By abolishing agencies and advisory services, we will not reduce officials but will increase them. They will be at the Ministry of Agriculture 15 officials being and at the time of the SDP government we had 9 in total and 10 in total with the Water Administration. This is an increase of 60% and I'll say again, let it be an increase of 60% of the officials if our agriculture will be better, if farmers will produce more and better,... When we talk about rationalization, then it's rationalization, cost reduction, are we going to rationalize costs with 15 officials and we used to have 9? I hope that's not a rationalization but that the situation in agriculture will be better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the pre-election campaign, the current minister was the main critic of a rural development programme that was adopted at the time of the SDP government. If it was so bad, how did the minister criticise him in his time, why did he not change him and it could change in any form because it could change up to 3 times in the 2014-20 operating period? Now something I've seen in this law that I can't like and I always say we're an excessively bureaucratic state. On page 86, we're talking about a system of information in agriculture. I believe that, in modern times, a system of information and information in agriculture must be and is very important, farmers must be well informed about new ways of agricultural production, but also all that we are not talking about information and information. On the one hand, on the one hand, half the page and half the page, we talk about information in agriculture, and then we talk about Chapter 10, administrative inspection, official controls, control of the paying agency, penalties in all of this together on over 30 pages. It means information for farmers on one page and controls, services, inspections, surveillance, and all of this together on over 30 pages. Well there's visible all the absurd laws but also the very foundation of agriculture, instead of worrying about the best way to help farmers, how to educate them, how to inform them, we watch here on page 30 as we give them inspections, how we punish them, how we reprove them, how they can't, it's really absurd. On page 30 and something, I read everything they can't, which is not good, and how we're gonna punish them when they don't do something right. I would literally pray that you do not view criticism as criticism, but here I am, in general speaking about Croatia being extremely bureaucratic, bureaucratic. I work at the local administration and I know how many audits I've had, how many daily questions, tables, ministries, regional agencies, county, everyone's just looking for something from me, we've turned into bureaucrats and okay, that may be our job in local self-government units but I would beg you, along with your employees, let's not turn farmers into bureaucrats. Let's not scare them, give them wind in the back, let them work, let them write paper as little as possible. Some of the less they go around the offices, some products on their land, and they work hard, I have a few farmers who would never change clearly, they don't have an annual vacation, they have nothing, they work, they work, they work. There's no summer there, winter. But let's make things easier for them, so they don't go around wearing papers. Let's not threaten them with punishment, let's help these people. I'm not talking about agriculture and agriculture, but in the economy, let's just punish them, let's just scare them, let's try to help all of them. Something else I wanted to say in these short 15 minutes is a subsidy. Here's a little effort, so I'm saying, we know what the subsidy is, the transfer of funds and this is the definition of which the state pays the difference between the cost of production, which pays the buyer, the price of the product paid by the buyer and the cost of production. This lowers the price of the product. And now mine would be my question or maybe my first finding if we were since '92. In one year 2001, it was 1.5 billion kuna subsidies. 3.4 billion is in 2017 which comes from the budget, which is from the EU funds, which is huge money. So what do we got? We have that our product, our apple, is more expensive than that imported apple from Hungary, that our pork is more expensive and we know that it is even more expensive than imported pork from European countries. What are we doing wrong? How is it possible for this product to be more expensive in our centers than domestic products? What are we doing wrong? And you can't say we're not helping farmers. Here's what I'd ask the question, hopefully you'll answer me, where we're wrong here, and all the other ministers who've been in these 28 years, and how much we've invested in agriculture, she's been on a better level than today, where we're wrong? And we see how much money is invested. Here is my question to which we can all answer in good faith how to help entrepreneurs, farmers, how to keep a young farmer on earth when and who is not on agriculture leaving Croatia? We know how many young people have gone from Croatia, how to help us, whether to make a special agency to help young entrepreneurs, young farmers sorry to leave, to see some light at the end of the tunnel, as you said, you see it, I'm very glad you're optimistic to see, but to see a farmer, a young farmer, up to 40 years of light at the end of the tunnel, doing agriculture. We have to do this maximum, and you will certainly have support for all MPs because we all want good for this Croatia, we will not get good for Croatia if there is no better agriculture, unless the young ones remain on that breast that sees well in Croatia and will not go out, but it must be concrete. I'm saying, my question is why aren't we successful? We are certainly incompetent, our people are not, that they are not working, we have a good country, a good quality country, and why we are not successful. I will be for those laws, for changes, for everything you say when I see a concrete result in Croatian agriculture, when I see concrete progress in the Croatian state, I will be for all the laws, whether the ministers on the left or on the right, it doesn't matter. I want good agriculture and I hope that with these laws and these efforts you will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119656	Let's move on, now it's up to a respected colleague, Branko Hrg, on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119657	After yesterday's tumultuous preparations for this session I see that from those who stood behind this pay phone yesterday and struggled not to have a debate yesterday are rare here. Here, dear Mr. President, the honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. He said a few years ago one of my acquaintances, a colleague, a friend of the general's, he looks at it like that on the military side, says food, security, stability, it all starts with that idea of food. And when we talk about agriculture we talk about food production, we talk about ensuring the essential living conditions of citizens as everyone in their home, in their family, we worry that his family has food, and the state has to worry about producing food for the citizens who live in it. A whole series of laws have been passed, amendments to laws and new laws in agriculture, it would be good for a while, in a few months, over the next year, if not here in the Parliament but at least on the Committee on Agriculture to do one analysis, one summary of the effects of these laws to see what happened positively, which is not good, what needs to be changed. And only by following the effects of the law will we be able to change those laws for the better, and then we will go in a more positive direction. There have already been talks here on the Agriculture Production Strategy in Croatia, on the Home Food Production Strategy, on domestic Croatian economies and my question goes towards the Ministry and Minister, when can we expect a strategy for agricultural production, food production in the Republic of Croatia? I think it is in this government that after these orientations and definitions towards agriculture that have been significantly more positive than were the definitions of some previous governments that today have in that symbolic part to thus express our view of agriculture by the very fact that it is the Minister of Agriculture and the Vice-President of the Government for the Economy. That's a good message, I said it in my first reading. And that message, that situation should be used to the maximum. So if we look at agricultural production from these three aspects of this food, stability and security then we can say that we cannot leave food to ourselves, that we cannot leave it to the market, that we simply have to make legal frameworks to protect our production and how to ensure our production, because if we do not have a protected and secure our production then we can realistically look at any situation in the environment to get into a situation where we do not have food, that we do not have to eat. Just imagine that I don't know that trade chains importing food are withdrawn from Croatia. For how long, days or weeks or months we would have enough food that Croatian citizens should consume, very short, very short. That's why agriculture can't be seen as any other branch of the economy, but as a strategic branch, because without food there is no life and so we have to set it up. In order for it to be regulated legally, it needs to be placed under a special increase, it needs to be much more thoughtful and looked at in other ways. But it's not just food production that brings us agriculture, if we're looking at agricultural production in large systems, then it's just food production, but if we're looking at production on OPGs, then it's saving lives in rural areas in villages, where we're having an exodus. And it is not only in Croatia, the trends are such that people simply move to cities, Croatia is not immune to this trend and it is certain that the villages will live significantly less people than in previous times, but we encourage that there remain some and young people that these young people are engaged in agriculture to have agricultural production on their family farms that they have, the decisions of this government and the parliamentary majority, but also almost all MPs in the Croatian Parliament and the Law on Family Agricultural Economics as the same kind of message that it is one target group that is of interest to the politics of the Republic. There was also talk here about livestock, of course we remember how once a fortune was measured in rural households, how many cattle you had, how many cows you had, that was kind of a sign of who was the boss. Today, there are a lot of problems about this, and I will ask Mr. Minister to maybe repeat some of the data relating to the measures that the ministry took and recently on the anniversary of the Stočar Association of Gola, where they were producers, where they were cattle farmers and where they all welcomed those measures that are new and which the ministry implements in preserving and strengthening hope for livestock production. I'm sorry that I'm not well understood or that I haven't quite explained the idea I've been talking about many times in this assembly anyway. The producer organisations as a form of self-association of agricultural producers and incentives they can get are certainly good measures and good trends, but producer organisations are not the ones who can solve the problem of association of Croatian agricultural producers of OPGs. We were discussing inspections, and here's my colleague Prelec was also talking about 30 and some pages of the law that prescribe a variety of criminal provisions and bans. As I said yesterday about craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, so it applies to farmers even more. They have no people, no knowledge, no underestimating anyone, no opportunity, no time to study all those laws that attack them, that threaten them. They must be provided with logistical support to provide them with a service not to go into the wrong streets, to avoid committing violations for which they will be punished. And that's why I talk all the time about the variant of the establishment I call it the agrocentre across Croatia by county. I am talking about the need for organised access, strategic approach, the organisation of a system that will gather the OPGs, the OPGs who will gather these agricultural producers who will try to give them logistical support in this part of the legislation, but to help them produce what they will for, which they will produce and of course in product placement. I am talking about the need of these agrocentres because it is the only way to start that story we hear about in this assembly since the beginning of the Croatian state on blue and green Croatia. We won't do it unless we do it systematically. And I repeat again today, and I will continue to repeat, in Croatia, a system must be developed to establish such logistic support centres, so that they can connect together into one system and that these centres will be those that will be able to appear on the market, as if I were saying large suppliers of goods, produced by our peasants, and brought them together, help them, organisation and production, and in some way guarantee their prices. Have we thought about having to define the minimum prices for agricultural products? They're here in France for that protest. Maybe that's the way to go, too. In some ways, help to establish these lines and to maximise agricultural production. So, I'm not talking here about agrocentres, which would be competition to someone, or competition to producer organisations, I only mention an example here in Zagreb County, this distribution centre for fruits and vegetables, it's certainly not an ideal one, but it's not a bad example, it needs to be processed, it needs to be expanded on such a model, it should simply be done, such a system throughout Croatia and connected the county. Connect that these goods can go towards each other and that they can go outside, that they can go towards shopping centres, towards trade chains, and that people know what they're making for and how much they get, and not leave them to the free market, they won't succeed, they won't succeed. There will be very few who will be kept and kept in it. I'll end up with these messages, food is no ordinary product, food production cannot be left to the free market. Every real boss, every real head of the family, cares that his family has to eat, and so do we. Let's go that way and put things that way. The HDS, HSLS and HDSSB club will, of course, support this bill proposal, but we would like to consider further improvements in OPG gathering, production at OPGs, not only for food production, but also for the preservation of life in rural space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119658	Thank you. The club of independent deputies also applied for participation in the debate, MP Tomislav Zhagar will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119659	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will try in this brief debate, point out a few things that are important, and they are related to the adoption of a roof law relating to the agriculture sector, what at this point is a fact, and I think it is a good thing that, as far as agriculture is concerned, that the Minister of Agriculture is also the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy. Because agriculture in today's angle of view is primarily economic activity. Agriculture is a way of management of agricultural land, a way of processing this land, a way of producing food, and at the end of the processing and supply of food to our tables. It's a very serious activity. Working in agriculture is mostly hard work. When we mention, and we often do, that a huge amount of support, incentives, came into the agriculture sector with our farmers, as they bought significant machinery, we forget one important fact, which is that the safety of farmers, not only in the Republic of Croatia, in all EU countries, the safety of farmers, depends only on one thing, and that is how much agricultural land they have. This only gives him certainty and especially that amount of land, which is owned by him, because I will say it here openly, we welcome and welcome the measure, which the Minister of the Law on the availability of agricultural land, has made that units of local self-government have the land they were given. What I am asking now is open-ended, given that the programmes have been certified by the county, the municipalities have built, when the ministry will confirm these programmes or maybe it's confirmed I don't know, but for some municipalities it's certainly not done yet. And of course, if there was a key provision of restrictions on agricultural land, so that as many farmers and especially young people come to agricultural land and there is now a double challenge, on the one hand it is quite a welcome, however, on the other hand when we talk about the competitiveness of agriculture, then it is, I say, such a machete of two blades, because it is not enough for young OPG, young farmers and those farmers who have not so far had the opportunity to reach agricultural land, only it will already make it important for them to be competitors. Now, again, even though I used it in the replica, I'm going to be troublesome about this question. In my current law, I think it's an art. The 137th is now 139th, it's so-called. The Green Paper or the report on the state of agriculture for the past Mr. It is true and I would like to point out that in 2013 it was the last report and in the term of office of Minister Jakovina stopped this practice, this report went to the government and to the Parliament. It is now being reintroduced, the re-determined way of reporting is being re-produced, the deadline is likely to be extended due to all those data, which are not so easily available, mentioning the State Statistics Office, which is due to provide the data, is extended until 15 December to prepare it and watch, now, we can say that it is a grudge why it does not go to the Parliament, to discuss it, however, and it is less important. This report is important because it shows us the situation, because in order to change something, we need to know what condition we are in and then we can draw directions in which direction we're going to go. On the pages of the Ministry of Agriculture, I printed it here, because the strategic plan of the Ministry of Agriculture for the period 2019-2021 and let's say, there are not many objections to this strategic plan, it even has certain objectives to measure the impact, which is to be achieved, the target values, there until 2021 and there are no significant objections. Is he ambitious that's hard to say. Here's how, Deputy Prime Minister of Agriculture, tomorrow you go to Minister Maric's office, tell us we need the money, let's make a deficit, let's invest a billion and a half, two billion to take care of the agricultural plots. Maybe that money, that billion-and-a-half deficit... in the future, 5% GDP work compared to 2.9. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe not, but we should get into it. Because what does the data tell us? Most of our agricultural holdings, most of the 2-10 hectares. In this plan, there's also a mention of the composition, the truth, so I don't know about the composition for 30 maybe more years, nothing's been done, the law's been passed, but nothing's moved. The ministry has given itself in this programme, a plan to do something in this area, but it is necessary to move agriculture to become competitive. Let's not list again, the depleted plots, the small plots, when we talk about agricultural economies, farmers, are at an older age, these are all the challenges that stand before us. And these challenges are not from the point of view only from agricultural production, which in itself are complex activities, they are from the point of view of sustainability, now let me use this syntagm of Croatian villages which more or to ask this question, will the Croatian village in the future, as we imagine it? Let's ask ourselves how many people in the Republic of Croatia can and should work and live on agriculture, that's the key question. If we answer that question, then we must go in this direction, so it was a good way to allow those who could not reach agricultural land so far, we are talking about state agricultural land to reach it. The next step would certainly be good, to allow these people, to get to their land, those families, which are traditionally, whose children or children, or we will try to keep their children on these agricultural holdings, so that our premises will survive and then look towards doing everything to make them competitive and to make that product, the final product, food safe and accessible to our citizens. One thing that's very important, is mentioned in the strategy, is mentioned in this law, the truth in one way, that we have a problem again, that specialization of the area, so let me say this in a joke, and if you come to the wrong specialist doctor, you can get hurt because he's only looking at his area, and you've got health problems in another area. When we talk about the education and education of our farmers, is counseling enough? We have agricultural colleges, the Faculty of Agriculture in Osijek, which is extremely good, which educates generations of agricultural engineers, in this direction we could do much more, so that this education would be better and that our farmers would be willing to face the challenges of the future. What the state over, the competent ministry and then the local self-government units, above all, should allow the county to take steps towards placing the products of our farmers in a joint performance. I know it's when we say what it has to do with this country, which has counties, but we see that our farmers, they're still running away from association, and they still have that, despite their legal frameworks adapting to it, they're still avoiding it because they have negative experiences about former cooperatives, so at least they're saying it, and without their joint appearances, it's hardly possible that they'll make progress. And then we go back, and our colleague Hrg mentioned this drive about the green and the plans of Croatia, it will be easier if they join together and it will be easier if, together with the county and local self-government units, the refrigerators are built in which these products can be stored and delivered to those places where demand and consumption are high, and when they come together, they will be able to reach high prices. Of course, don't mind, all of it more or less, I'm here when I talk about this law, I'm talking about agriculture in general, it's just that there's a lot of these things that we want to emphasize. The law itself is the continuation of laws that have so far been, certain improvements, the introduction of regulations that the EU requires of us, but what we may be able to resent is the lack of ambition, to make the law even better in terms of some of the steps that will allow agriculture to compete. We had the Catastrophe Act a while ago. The scale of the land is a very important thing. I suggested, last time I asked, he wasn't a minister, he was Mr. Majdak, why don't we introduce in this law the same thing as in the Agricultural Land Act, that agriculture is a property of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia. It may seem unnecessary, but it is good to introduce it, because it is of particular interest and we must do everything to make it function according to plans here to see that it is planned until 2021 to put much more land into a function which is now unfortunately not in function, but such introduction or definition of concepts in the law, is not without the devil, it still gives the direction to do so, that agricultural land is more discussed to take care of it at the end of the day. And as far as information systems are concerned, we'll have to work more on it, say farmers, and when people say it's true, we can't say it differently, come to one office, report there, then come to another office, then this other office asks them officially to ask that first office to send them that report they left in the first office. We need these things, the flow of information from different databases, to improve. I've been looking at the Ministry's pages, I haven't found the information center of agriculture, it's gone, it's got this price center, as it's already called. These things need to be done in order to connect all these bases in the future, so that the system of e-Citizens can live and there should be no need to save. Since we are not satisfied with the ambition of this legal solution when voting on this law, we will be abstentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119660	HNS MPs' club also applied for participation in the debate. On their behalf will be the representative of the Goddess Macar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119661	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. As already indicated on several occasions, and what we are talking about is that this law actually regulates the objectives and measures of agricultural policy and provides a framework for the implementation of these measures, of course by ensuring the implementation of EU regulations, and implies and adoption of national strategic and programming documents, and there has been talk that we are all expecting and the minister has promised that there is a national strategy for the development of agriculture. There's been a lot of talk in the media to pass the new Agriculture Act. And that question that was often addressed to me and I believe that many of you by our agricultural producers were and what brings this Agriculture Act now, does that mean that I will be able to sell everything I produce now, whether I know at which price I will be able to sell it, whether I can plan or know what to sow next year, which would be my most favourable, whether I should move on to another culture, of course we can't read it from that law but to go in that direction and that some frameworks should also be known and by adopting this strategy we should certainly be and that's the question that our agricultural producers expect the answer to. The reduction in agricultural production is a fact that regardless of all the investments we've had so far, production is growing from year to year. My generation remembers with the seed the mention of the village and that it was actually a village of good food because we had in the barn cows from which we received milk, fresh milk milk, that warm, fine, and it bound us with the grace of that village. That cabin, and the smell of gum, and then the popcorn in the yard, the village, unfortunately, isn't today. The village is now a place for housing with worse infrastructure than it has a city and no cows with a rare farm that is usually outside the village, no longer in the village. Pigs are also rare in villages, even here and there is a coke that wears homemade eggs but unfortunately it is increasingly rare. Is it invested enough? Some say that support is too high in view of how low we are in making our production further and further declines. It is true that the offerings are low, and it is true that our village or our agricultural producers are different. We have O.P.G.s where a single man and a farmer live, and he has to produce to survive, or to have something to eat. We've got the ones where the real family works and we've got the big ones. So here when we talk about our OPGs or even when we talk more about agricultural producers, the differences are really drastic. The differences are also great in certain geographical areas of our country. Not the same in Slavonia, they have their own problems, where there are large areas and where there is an intense way of producing certain cultures or a way of producing on areas that are fragmented small and where you can really survive only if you produce a working intensive culture, whether it's vegetables, fruits or something, flowers that are in our area where I come from. And really to help these agricultural producers and local self-government units try to keep people in the area because if schools are built, kindergartens and if infrastructures are made and if all those farmers disappear, I don't know if they'll leave town then they'll live in the country just because there'll be more peace and they'll have their peace and enjoyment. But local self-government units are really limited in their resources that can invest and help their farmers. It is good that some have decided, regardless of the limitations of their resources, to help their producers, especially after the adoption of the Law on the financing of the unit of local self-government that was adopted at the end of last year, so they could plan and expect more funds for this year than they were in earlier years. Here I come from the Varazdin area and we have really plenty of examples where units of local self-government co-finance the supply of fruity fruit material, the purchase of fruit material from vegetable seeds, the help in the purchase of greenhouses and plastics, and we have a cute example of a unit of local self-government that just after the adoption of that law called it Christmases for our cows. To some, it seemed funny, some looked stupid, but each one who had one cow in his barn got 100 kuna, two cows 200 kuna, went up to 5 cows that had, so it was the smallest ones and that the goal was to keep people from being food producers because if they live in the country, if they already had those resources to produce that food for themselves, and of course it's always good to have market surpluses. The measure has been considered over the year and may have been accepted at the beginning with a laugh but this year it goes the same way but increases to 200 kuna for cows, also up to 5 cows and goes to the sterns. It's exactly what I was saying at the beginning that the village is waking up again. But what's still good and what I'm going to look at is also encouraging cooperatives. We've had the same subject of cooperatives here the other day, so I'm going to boast a little bit that the area from which I come has an extremely successful agricultural and flowering cooperative Varazdin flower, when these big trade chains just didn't produce enough amounts of different flowers to get into those chains at all. And normally that everyone would like more, we have all the problems but they are far more satisfied now as cooperatives than they were before as individual producers and are confident in the placement of their products because the actual quantities are negotiated in advance and what is produced is sold. We also have a Ludbrewski region cooperative that has its own freezer, a fruit and vegetable pack. This also helped the city of Ludbreg to establish a cooperative, and at the very beginning, because of the bad experience of past times, there was a lot of skepticism. But lately, more and more cooperatives have entered the cooperative, but what is good is that they can also contract cooperative producers who are not members of the cooperative, they have different conditions and different buying prices but are sure to buy and place their products, so this year the ratio of the production of cucumbers was about 50% cooperatives and 50% of those who produced 500kg on multiple cucumbers but could still place them and they knew that they had secured the placement of their products. So there's a great opportunity and it really should be seen and done not only from that level of unit of local self-government because here in a cooperative in Ludbrescu area it was primarily intended for local self-government units, 5 units from that area but lately it's also of interest to other units, so it's recognized as something good. And what I would like to point out in this law, yesterday we had the State Inspectorate Act, and everyone pointed out these repressive measures, namely the distinction that that small agricultural producer needs the greatest help and not punishment. The other thing is, I'm not about to be seen through the fingers, so let's call it the big ones who want to get support and actually don't sow 50 acres or 100 ha of reports that they've been shined and received support for it. I know that there needs to be control and they've been good lately and they should be because that's something to be punished but that kid really needs help. We at the HNS Club have discussed this law, normally that each of us has its own ideas, our own observations, our own examples from our own territory, but in principle we believe that this law is good, that it should be passed, we support it, we also support the suggestions of those colleagues who have made that life there, that agriculture is a way of life, that we should follow, analyze and all that is good for agriculture, for our farmers to make such laws and regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119662	Thank you. The HSS representative club also reported for participation in the debate, MP Zeljko Lenart will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119663	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Those I would like to particularly welcome today are farmers, peasants, those who are in the fields today, in the stables, those who are in the workshops doing repairing their old machines and I would like to welcome those who, unfortunately, had to leave their home, go to Ireland, Germany or across Europe because they simply couldn't fight the situation as unfortunately in Croatia and had to shut down their agricultural economies. Some also said, yesterday was a circus, gentlemen, the circus wasn't here, unfortunately I tried to get Vice President Reiner to stop the debate, to delay the debate today because I think it's better that he sits here today and the minister is scheduled today and the debate has been mentioned. Those who unfortunately had to occupy this pay phone here yesterday in order to reach the goal and these quality discussions are here today and are following this debate that is very important for the Croatian village, Croatian agriculture and a complete Croatian society. The agricultural law is a roof law which unfortunately has to be done without a strategy but a strategy that is in the making or not, I don't know exactly, is likely, if only forms are made for the sake of it, will also not contribute to the quality of agricultural production. The government of the Republic of Croatia boasts the reforms it implements, I argue that reform is something that changes the drastic state of the sector rather than writing new laws that are derived from some former laws. The law says that agriculture of the Republic of Croatia is a strategic branch, unfortunately today is a maternal relationship with agriculture, not only today, but also a minister who is a short minister can change what was brought to this position in 27 years. All the time, regardless of all governments, simply according to agriculture, there was a maternal relationship as if it were not our Croatian agriculture. Government service policy versus Europe is viewed in support of banks, large capital, and if that were the case, it can be seen in relation to agriculture and to the Croatian man who simply doesn't want to deal with this system anymore because people no longer have time to wait for promises will be better, they simply took their suitcases, their children and went all over Europe. All the strong economies in the world and Europe have strong and stable agricultural production. and as long as Croatia does not have a strong and stable agricultural production, strong farmers will not have a strong economy. I must also commend the Minister for the regular payment of the support, for which the peasants are grateful, and here I give you their thanks because the minister kept his word. Comrade Djakic, if you want to speak already, please feel free to contact and we will talk. Don't throw it away, I'm not throwing it to you. Unfortunately, our government and our ministry do not see what is happening in the EU, that there are hidden support that the EU gives its farmers so that they can be more competitive over other farmers who do not have such hidden support as Croatia, but unfortunately have more and more of these obstacles that are being put in place and growing problems in the management of their agricultural economies. And in the budget itself, you can't see that this relationship is changing. The cow-body system on which I worked a lot in my working life has only received 3 million kuna, it wouldn't have been 1,000 kuna per cow when it was only cows from my county and not to speak further, means it's not important to launch that system for which we have comparative advantages and which can very quickly run agricultural production. We know that livestock production is an engine of production, unfortunately our livestock sector has failed, dairy farms have gone out, the tow in livestock has also failed, pig farming. We simply don't have anywhere near, not to have a decent livestock production. The livestock production runs all other parts of agriculture, especially in warfare. Today, warfare is good for us but not thanks to agricultural policy, but thanks to the opportunity for our cereals to be bought by Italians, Austrians, Germans, who give a decent price and then this sector has survived. The question is how many people who have worked on this law and have real experience in agriculture, in the sector, know what it means to be a peasant, to know what it means to invest, to have faults, to have problems in production and to end up a positive year with all these obstacles that are. Unfortunately, the Agricultural Chamber is turning into the HDZ branch, agricultural associations are crushed, serving exclusively for political points no matter what option they serve. We have abolished the Croatian Advisory Service, for what? For a million-and-a-half savings in the budget? Well, a far greater contribution was to Croatian advisory services than it was to 1.5 million. EU funds cannot save Croatian agriculture. They are welcome to help, to push the producers but certainly cannot save it unless we have a quality national policy against Croatian agriculture. If we don't realize that we need agriculture, that it's very important for our economy but we really need to understand it so honestly and treat it, all these funds will certainly not save us. Our national agricultural policy must protect both the smallest and the weakest and the medium and large because they are all agricultural producers together regardless of their production. All of them are connected and need each other so that no one out of that chain, regardless of the size, can fall out. Unfortunately, we just prescribe EU directives, very rarely or never oppose these directives, and we do not say that they are not good for our agriculture, and many of them are not good, because our agriculture has specialities as well as national agriculture of some other members of the European Union. We spoke here today and about the merger. Some people talk about it a lot. They're astounded as glids, because they don't understand what's going on in Croatian agriculture and why the Croatian farmer doesn't want to join. So then, from history, those unfortunate cooperatives are pulled out of Communism, throwing ceilings, pushing people into cooperatives, but what's crucial in cooperative is interest. One who enters a cooperative must have some interest, mostly financial, marketable, easier business. We have to encourage our agricultural producers, less, medium, we have to say what the size of people we're going to encourage to go to cooperatives, it's 5, 10, 15, 30 acres, let's make that decision, and let's say those who join the cooperative will be released from VAT. The head of the cooperative will be released from giving on his salary. Let's encourage them. Let the state give up something, but it will not give up for long, because in time, it will double the revenue from these similarities that will be given to those who will join in because their production will grow, because of their production will and in the economy will feel. Because as Styria's agricultural chamber said, for every job in agriculture, almost two jobs in the economy are being opened. Let's push that story. People won't team up on their own, we need to figure out what our man is like. That he wants to do everything for himself, that he may not want to share, but that moment as an Austrian farmer told me, so I'm not in the company because I love the cooperative, but as I have an interest in being in that company, because it gives me a series of benefits and my OPG makes more than it is outside of the cooperative. That way we should watch the merger, and I think it will eventually give us a goal. State agricultural land. We've reached the new Land Act, we've set deadlines, assignments to local self-government units, here's the end of the year, we haven't solved the problem, the problem hasn't moved. This is not an easy problem, because everyone wants land, agricultural land is a parent substrate for production and everyone is looking for as many hectares as possible for themselves. Unfortunately, the Agricultural Land Act is written to suit some groups again. The farmers who have hundreds of hectares, 150, have been complained, won the state agricultural land contest, irrelevant during which governments. They bought machines, teamed up, educated, produced production, although some speak here about small offerings, my dear gentlemen, those who deal with agriculture truly, they have very good yields at European level and don't think our peasants can't produce. But what? They're scared now. They fear that with this Law some others will come, who will take away their land and their property will fall apart. Many have three, four tractors, these are millions of machine values. What then? These people are left to fail, some may have loans. So I think the Minister may need to include in some regulation that those who function and make quality products do not remain without the land they have. We also have concepts that we use here, a self-supply economy, an active farmer, again we share farmers in various ways. Every agricultural production, regardless of size, is production, and creating a new value. Every seed that is sown, every plant that is planted, gives more than what is invested. And when that's the way to look at agriculture. I was fortunate that at the time of my studies I had professors, as Professor Brčić, Barčić, Todorovic, Miljković, that I did not list them all, many of them have also left us, who have always spoken to the Lords of Agronomies, you have to deal with helping the village, to promote agricultural production.> and my every debate about agriculture will always be with you, from that point of view. Of course, it will also be from the point of view of protecting agricultural producers, which are unfortunately left to themselves often, insecurity and are easy to fear for their families, for the future and for the existence. Agricultural production is also a production of national security, an importance for national security. Unfortunately, she's not enough today, and as someone said, which would have happened if that imports had disappeared. But we do not have to be afraid, these imports will always go because it is in the interest of many, that foreign goods are sold in Croatia. But recently we had the Homeland War, we have to be aware of what it meant and what it meant then to have your food, your energy, your telecommunications, which we also sold. Croatians would love to buy domestic goods, but unfortunately today they are broke, they are alive, and they are trying to buy what they can, not what is quality. In order for the manufacturer to produce today, he must have land, machinery, money for repro material, labour, must have knowledge, must deal with the production of selection, type of culture production, search for as cheap as possible repro material, repairing machinery, buying and restoring machinery, must work with old machines, often repair them, must be agronomous, mechanic, locksmith, electrician, meaning a man who must have a lot of skills to survive today. And so always look at the manufacturers as someone who fights to feed this people but of course to live his family in the Croatian village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119664	For individual participation in the debate, MP Miro Bulj reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119665	Thank you very much. I am glad that there is a minister here and that we can discuss the problems of the village, Croatian peasants, agriculture in general because it is the basis of the functioning of a society and national interest, food production. Without a rich village there is no rich state, there is no rich city but the fact is that the current policies, I don't know anything new about what the minister has done with this law to survive a peasant in the country and to start production except that we have 6, 7 laws that are here together, in fact this is now like a roof law where from 2020 the foreigners will be able to buy emptyed out our farms, the villages of Slavonia, the villages of Like, the villages of Gorski Kotar, the Dalmatian town, because from the year 2020 the foreigners will be able to buy agricultural land while the minister knows it well, Croatian citizens, i.e. natural and legal persons in Hungary cannot buy agricultural land. I believe that agriculture is the basis of survival in these areas, we no longer see cattle, we don't see shepherds, but someone has mentioned or shepherds, and these are the things we have to base ourselves on and not insult in the debates on agriculture, the shepherds actually need to be proud, these people have come up even to world levels, people who have been guarding cattle, we see that even the best player of the world was once a shepherd, and I think it's humiliating that in Parliament we insult these people who are missing and who are decently doing their jobs and many of us are raised by these people because these people have taken care of their families, so immediately I say that it's sad that we don't have any more shepherds or as he said yesterday, "Bačić, a horse," and moreover, we don't have them on our meadows, but it's all empty, and it's all of how we keep those, how humiliating it is, and I think that we need to build a new story, that we need to be able to do something in agriculture, to do something, to do, to do something, to do something, to do, to do something, to do, to do, to do something, to do, to do something, to do, to do, to do, to do something, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do something, to do, to do something, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do something, to do, to do something, to do, to do something, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do something, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do something, to do something, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do things, to do things, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do things, to do, to do, to do, to do things, to do, to do, to do, to do, to I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture should work more and educate its representatives from the majority that these people who honor their jobs, shepherds or shepherds, should not be offended and I hope that the minister will also make education in the majority. I would now start with one very important thing, the fact that Croatia is coming, increasing imports to 3 billion euros in food, food products. Most of all, we're importing pigs. How many Chinese could perform a pig, a black Slavonian, I don't think it would matter in two rows from Serbia's border to Prevlaka, means throughout Croatia, but we don't protect these people or protect them, for what? Because in this law, he doesn't even mention pork, which is why I don't know. The minister responded through the replica that pig-goating would be protected. However, we have adapted to some European legislation, we simply listen obediently to it and we need to know that it is our tradition, that we need to bring all European legislation into line with our tradition. A billion kunas of pork, the second in a row that we import most are baker's products and that's grain, from grains that are done, what is disastrous, and never greater subsidies were. I said in 2017, in the first half of 2018, compared to 2017, we imported 2 billion kunas of more food products. 2 billion. For what? Because import lobbys and pests within the ministries, within Croatian institutions, are suitable for import lobbies while in the top-of-the-line field, I don't know, peaches are harvested. Or I don't know, grapes at a time when they're mature, our people can't sell it, but there's a foreign grape coming in that's being imported in who knows what ways and guesses. So we have to protect a domestic farmer or else we won't have a farm but in 2020, all the country in Slavonia will buy foreigners. And agricultural land will be in foreign hands, as a strategic national interest. It's unimaginable for me to talk today about agriculture, the development of agriculture, when we don't have a irrigation system in my cetin area. We have a drain system, not irrigation, and every year we have it as a project because when the government comes... , now it announces that it will come to Sinj, probably a little bit of that, would like to be these results but not be promises and we've provided the project documentation, every time they say, we've secured the funds, that's the same thing, so they've got so much documentation and where that money is, is it being laundered new through the design of the documentation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It saddens me to read in the media in the middle of summer that there is a drought in the blue field. And there is a clear river of Cetina that casts out more water daily than in Israel all the expensive springs of the river, all that they have. And in Israel, a large part of their surfaces and deserts are irrigated, and while we do not have a system of irrigation in the Chetino field, 6,000 ha of arable surface. And so with the unregioned down farmer. Their product's gone nowhere. Now we're looking at Mandarins. We're looking at melons and watermelons. In Slavonia cereals, we are the land of cereals and we are essentially importing the most bakery products. So it's all the other way around. There were 64,000 thousand dairy farmers in this household who were involved in the production of milk. Now we're down under 4,000. Milk production never lower, never lower. We boast of increasing tourists in the season, and we never produce wine less, we never sell wine less, and we boast of the biggest increase in tourism, the minister can confirm that it is. We have a problem that we don't hold onto our cattlemen like that. In Pag, people hold the sheep of the pastures we boast of the pasha cheese i.e. It's our brand that's one of the stronger brands and waste dumps, where they'll sort out the waste, right in the middle of a field where the sheep of the pastures are kept. Well, that's all he can do, I don't know how it can happen, and that's where they need to be, that's protesting people, but there's enough on the shelves of the Pag cheese. It's gonna be in Italy making it, you haven't seen Pag I don't think I see how it works at all. So we didn't protect our village, our farmer, our cattleman, or our horseman, as counterpart Bačić said when he wanted to insult someone, but I'm proud of what he said to me, and I don't think this law protected our national interest, because we've allowed previous laws to allow foreigners to buy our agricultural land in 2020, so that foreigners who don't live here can open the OPGs that's the problem. It is a personal question to me if we are in the EU why a Croatian natural and legal person cannot buy agricultural land in Hungary. I want to tell you why. I want to tell you why he can't, because he made a referendum, don't be a nervous minister you'll have when I answer you I wasn't in your word, calm down it's important to protect domestic production regardless of whether you're a minister or something else or I was a parliamentary representative or not. I don't have a competition here, but the fact is that two of them since 2020, foreigners are going to buy power in Slavonia agricultural land. Now that she's been evicted, she'll be able to buy power, that's a fact, kill it for me, I'll be moving out of the assembly. Will the power buy agricultural land foreigners now emptied of Slavonia, where our cattlemen who were now engaged in Ireland are guarding cattle or as your colleague Bačić was saying when he mocked them. He tried to mock the most honorable people who did their job with honor, with shepherds, and with a democratic party, shepherds mock. For a farmer, a peasant, difficult rather than in the law to protect the national interest of agricultural land to stop to irrigate our fields if my Israel desert is irritable why we cannot sow the field of Sinj I expect you colleagues. [[Intruder: Time.]] Parliamentary representatives and you from the ministry [[Employer: Representative Bulj.]] to protect national interests [[Intruder: Time's up.]] our.../incomprehensible... [[Employer: Representative Bulj, time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119666	Several MPs reported on the replicas, the first representative to appear was Mr. Grmoy's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119667	Dear counterpart Bulj, you have been fighting for Croatian peasants here for a long time in the Croatian Parliament, for the Croatian village, we had right here at the beginning of the debate, the recognition of the minister who said, so those who have managed Croatia have destroyed Croatian agriculture and Croatian peasants. So who's been running it all these years in Croatia? Well it just means those who belonged to either his party or I think HSS most that they managed means the Ministry of Agriculture, but HDZ, HDZ, most, over the years. MOST had responsibility for the Ministry of Agriculture I don't know which 6, 7 months and there is our responsibility, but the minister just admitted that they destroyed Croatian peasants and Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119668	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119669	So how they wouldn't destroy the peasants when they were creating big giant, big corporations like Agrokor, the money that was supposed to go to our peasants, the little O.P.G.s went to tycoons who created their own empires, and our young, families that dealt with the tradition of livestock were leaving. A huge amount of money has been subsidized annually by these giants who have laundered money, who have captured the entire Croatian economy and agricultural production by the neck and brought the Croatian state to collapse. So that money that was meant for the peasant was hard to fight and that created additional value wasn't going to him, but was going to those who, who paid them campaigns, to the team that was in power at the time. And that's the problem, the problem is that it's a forgotten village and a peasant, what's an empty village and what a peasant and a village won't get what they need, and without the village 2/3 of Croatia no developed Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119670	Representative Pranic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119671	Thank you, Vice-President, distinguished ministers, fellow Bulj, in your debate on the position of Croatian peasants, on the position of Croatian village within this law we had in fact the last amendments to the law before the week, two days of the Law on VAT where we proposed a single amendment reduction of VAT rates from 25% to 13% for dry-meat products containing both Slavonic coolen and Slavonic sausages and Baranja coolen and Dalmatian prosciutto, drjski prosciutto, karsciutto prosciutto. When I list these products, everyone has geographical indications, marks of Croatia's originality, labels soon I hope and protection at European level, but as much as we care about Croatian peasants, every refusal of amendments and assistance in terms of reducing the VAT rate to these products. And everyone boasts about these products when they come to us in Dalmatia, when they're the kind of fantastic aid projects, and all we can see from that is that many people Young people are moving out of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119672	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119673	A colleague of Pranic, you well know how farmers pass by in your Vrgorac and in the Vrgoračka area, that they were forced to drink young peach orchards, man was literally crying, a man who had three children, a young family, was simply forced to drink his orchards, this year he could not sell table grapes because, of course, the import lobbies and pests that allowed them to do so, well charged and that man was brought to an end. He was simply forced to simply think about going to other parts. We gave the amendments to protect the domestic producer, domestic production, unfortunately, most do not accept it because they do not smell like it, they are players of foreign interest lobbying, import lobbying, which has flooded the Croatian market, this harmful food, and therefore, in the Republic of Croatia, we have the largest increase in tumors compared to other EU countries. Who knows? [[Intruder: Thank you]] What a scissor we are. [[Intruder: Thank you]] This is where you sell. [[Intruder: Time's up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119674	Representative Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119675	Thank you very much. Col. Bulj, yesterday when counterpart Ante Bacic tried to make an insult by the name of the shepherds, you, and also insulting that profession, he also insulted the government policy he supports. That same government has recognized that being in the Republic of Croatia is challenging. So where we're looking for labour, even on the import quota, there were 35 shepherds we were looking for, here. So he went off to make fun of himself, he actually opened up a very important topic, a topic that shows where our agriculture is, that we can no longer provide for livestock production or such jobs. Therefore, where we go if this is how those politicians who need to represent the interests of the area, especially, here, your areas where these forms of production should be developed intensively, if he finds that far-fetched and does not understand the real problem as the government has tried to accept through your measurements. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119676	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119677	I agree with you that we are talking about where we came from when we talk about shepherds like that, when we talk about a parliamentary representative who calls himself his democracy, the democratic party in power, here's Christmas now, he wants to sing now to O’s shepherds as a Christian, a great believer, whether he wants to call or not. But it's really really, I mean it's not funny, it's sad, I come from the neighborhood, I've spent my whole life dealing with livestock and I don't have any problem, everyone's been dealing with livestock, I'm proud of my roots, cattle production, I'm sorry that we've got less cattlemen, shepherds like they like to say HDZ, Bačić, chops, but he's a joke. And I'm glad that on the roof of the world there was a boy who was guarding, so a herd of goats in the Dalmatian cross, went to the top of the world, now he's the best football player. ♪ The world, it's got a gold ball ♪ [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm proud of it. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119678	Agent Mader was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119679	Thank you. All I have to say is that during the HSS Minister's time, the state-run countries were the most divided and became the owners of the OPG and brought down to local self-government units. Of course, this Law has brought it back, and we just don't think it's good, but otherwise, fellow Bull, you've mentioned how to protect a domestic producer. It is clear that it is necessary to protect the domestic producer, to buy Croatian, as the minister said, but a question which is the purchasing power of Croats, unfortunately, that purchasing power in the Republic of Croatia is bad, and when you have in the trade chains the price of pork, for example. 19,00 kn in shares, and what is the real price, can our producers produce certain products at a price of 19,00 kn? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119680	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119681	I agree that the policy implemented by HDZ destroyed the Croatian village. Of course others who had, but much less responsibility, is it a smaller interval, because it's simply an empty village, it's a fact, there's no more agriculture. I can manage, this law doesn't solve anything, this law passed is nice to hear we have the Agriculture Act. Let him say one measure that is passed by this Act, and they have not even accepted the mention of pig farming, they don't mention it at all in any word, and pigmeat should be one of the main pillars of the development of Croatian agriculture, is the import lobby not allowed to do so, has GM pork imports as much as you want, very simple meat, red meat, it looks, but therefore we have, again, an increase in the disease, mainly tumors in the Republic, and only because of import lobbys that import harmful food, and are shutting down domestic health production [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119682	Agent Lenart has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119683	Thank you, dear Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you often use the word we need to protect the peasants, protect, our peasant is not a poor man, he is tough and he knows how to fight, we just have to create conditions for him to do his job uninterruptedly, to produce uninterruptedly, we have to remove the obstacles that are set before him because when he goes into production, he has a certain number of obstacles, while finishing production gets more new and deals with some non-essential things instead of dealing with his production, that he is more quality, that he has a greater contribution, that he is more rational. And what we need to help him to be more competitive on the market, we need not protect him, but we need to help him be more competitive on the market, and the government has to come up with a series of reliefs for our peasants who may be invisible to the EU, but will allow him to be more competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119684	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119685	So I agree that the peasant is tough and is fighting for survival, unfortunately, more and more empty households, less and less can be heard in the country, less and less can be seen, means, cattle or treasures, as I hope, things will change and that our peasant as in these difficult circumstances is, will endure and survive in our areas. However, they are an open hunt of various interests, and not that we protect them, we don't need them to protect them, we just need to enable them to be as competitive as you said and they are hunted by various interests, various accusations, various, who knows everything, everything that needs to be adapted and our peasant simply cannot achieve it and he will never be competitive as long as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia behaves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119686	MP Misic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119687	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bull, I can agree with you in some things and you just need to know who to object to. The minister has said well over the past 20 years that it has not been right to run it we all know, it is a question of the DORH, USKOK and those applications already made by certain farmers. However, if we look at today and watch this government that has made a lot of moves in these two years at least in Slavonia, and we'll hear it in 4 years when we see what's been done, and sharing subsidies to certain groups of people so far, I'd say to the interest groups and throwing money, I'd say some shitty things where farmers are also somewhat guilty where they were buying cars and the rest of them know it well in Slavonia, but again I'm talking about the interest groups that they are, they have applications in DORHU and USKOK and I hope they'll solve it. And yet in these two years, this government has made one step and invested most in Slavonia since the war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119688	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119689	I just told you in my debate that never again tourism and never less Croatian wines produce and sell. That's the first one. ... Second, never higher, never higher imports than now, 3 billion kuna, 3 billion, i.e. The euro, we're getting closer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In 2017, compared to this year in 2017, 2 billion kuna were imported more food. And let's boast, these are statistics, you can easily find them on google, they're indicators. The indicators are empty villages. And I can't know that all who did this, ask Peter Cobankovic, he was the longest minister, he'll explain these other things where the subsidies went. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119690	Representative Krizanic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Bulj, you're fighting for the peasants, which I welcome and what's okay, but you always say exactly what suits you. You keep saying that as of 2020, foreigners will be able to buy land in the Republic of Croatia. Well, I can do it now, so who's stopping them from buying companies or O.P.G.s that have land? Who is defending our producers from buying EU companies or OPGs that have a country? No one. And now, on the other hand, you know very well that we will use the possibility of extending the moratorium to directly buy the country to foreigners but you keep repeating the things that fit you. However, you need to know one thing or we want to be an EU member or not, and it will be worth 5 or 10 years of legality that we will have to stick to as an equal member of the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119692	Replication response, Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119693	We won't agree to that because then it wouldn't be a referendum in Hungary and it wouldn't happen what happens but OK. Mostly yes, you are right, VUPIK Belje, PIK Vinkovci, PIK Vrbovac all goes into foreign property because of bad policy, due to pests that subsidized not peasants but interested groups, went into foreign hands, into foreign banks. Yeah, he's gone because of the bad policies that have been implemented, the vermin within the ministries. And the villages are empty, and I know that's how it's gonna be. But we have to fight to keep the Croatian peasant in the Croatian village, not to go to other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119694	MP Mikulić, reporting for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119695	I thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I am simply amazed by the amount of information that you, the false information that you place here, but I would remind you of one thing that you are the one who brought out Minister Romic, the minister who did not want to change the Law on Land and thus protected the very great ones. You were the one who pointed out Minister Romic who did not pass the OPG Act even though we, as HDZ, proposed the law. In essence, Minister Romic has not passed any Agriculture Act and has not provided a single irrigation system as an expert. And it just says how much you care about agriculture, it's full of your mouth and yesterday about agriculture and today here about agriculture, but here, these are crystal clear examples of how MOST refers to agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119696	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119697	The man was a minister for 100 days, and you, dear sir, defend the interest groups that created empires to the detriment of Croats, Croatian villages. You have told so many lies here that in 100 days, in 100 days, you asked, but all you asked for, you sought out Jozo Petrovic and the consultants. The only thing you were looking for at the time. You absolutely never cared about how to preserve Croatian peasants or telecommunications or INA, you were not interested in anything. That is why the Croatian state is now empty and empty. The Croatian state has been brought to the bottom because of such policies. I don't justify anyone, nor the minister of the former Roma, but he was a man for 100 days and you are now. So ask the former minister of Cobankovic, former ministers, and do not ask, and do not mention, the doves of potatoes for such amounts. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119698	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grmoy's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119699	The simply respected chairman must react.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119700	Representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119701	Article 238, meaning a representative who means here called a completely unfounded minister who has been minister for 100 days and has convicted criminals who have been gulping potatoes for 5 years who have been ministers and destroyed the Croatian village. For 28 years you have managed Croatia, destroyed Croatian agriculture and you You have the nerve to call a university professor who was a minister for 100 days. [[/Subject Petrov: Thank you, Mr. Grmoja representative, your time is up. Mr. Grmoy's representative.]] Shame on you, you criminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119702	Mr. Grmoy's representative, your time is up. Mr. Djakic, don't get it. Mr. Djakic, don't earn it, but you have the opportunity to lift the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119703	You destroyed Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119704	Representative Djakic, I ask you to calm down. Mr. Grmoja's representative, Mr. Grmoja, was not injured by the Rules of Procedure, that MPs would speak in their speeches in the Parliament, whether they were telling the truth or not, Parliament Speaker Gordan Jandrokovic said that because if the MPs were to make a lie or not, there was no harm to the Rules of Procedure, he would ask you to stick to it. MP Mikulic, also requested the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119705	I thank you, Vice President. Article 238, I'd like to ask you to warn your colleague Grumo not to insult us, not to call us criminals, and among other things, he's told another lie, there hasn't been 100 days, it's been nine months. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119706	MP Mikulić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I warned you. I'd like the esteemed MPs to be polite. Representative Mikulić, I have warned Representative Grmoy, I cannot remember that he personally called you criminals, or criminals, in such a way that he insulted you. And as he did, I won't warn you, nor did I warn you of anything I consider to be true or false. Your President of the Parliament said that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is not when a parliamentary representative gives a lie, and if those standards do not suit you, consult with him, not with me. Thank you. For individual participation in the debate,.../The speakers speak out loudly, incomprehensiblely./...I would ask that you do not object, I adhere, sir, to MP Šipic, MP Šipic, I adhere to the rules that the President of the Parliament has stated to me personally. For individual participation in the debate, MP Culey reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119707	Dear Vice President. And I will begin in a strange way, heavily mild with a bad shepherd, and even harder to shepherd with a variety of treasures in his flock that he guards. So I'll generally talk about us like this. We were talking here yesterday, breaking up, chasing, threatening, saying things. The debate before the one that was interrupted was an inspectorate, a very important branch, which was abolished in the past government, especially the state inspectorate, which was supposed to establish various anomalies, robberies and so on, so we wouldn't be discussing agriculture in this way. Like all of us, we want Croatian peasants well and we all know what's going on in the country, what's the problem, but we can't find a solution together. Why? Because this is one bag, and inside they are all horns, and each one would say something of his own that is the best, the most precious, and I will say this again, I will return to the shepherd, the shepherd who guards his treasure is like the Croatian defender who has guarded his people, and who will sooner take care of his people or his treasure than take care of himself, because in the first place his treasure, that he is safe, in the dry, warm, and that he is slowly progressing and reproduced, to get fat. And we like here, many before us,... politicians in the long run, whose only branch they're dealing with and who don't have any other past or future, except political ones, and that's their only way to survive in this cruel world, in which a Croatian peasant, because he's tough, and through centuries learned how to survive, based only on his knowledge and people's dedication, learnt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he'll survive. And we, as white, shall have on the oak vegetation on his back, and shall use all his good things which he shall provide, more to us than to ourselves. When we go into this story, like any responsible shepherd, or as we in the army knew after a certain success or failure to make an analysis or a breakdown of the entire successful or unsuccessful action, so it was necessary for the same in agriculture, that the wise heads who led this country, not to add up the pluses of the strong and real estates they acquired in their mandate, but to see what they missed to do and what they did not do or what they did to their people, and what is now a reflection as a state in Croatian agriculture and in Croatian society, so that they were able to analyze it, and possibly someone involved with them, because many such benefactors of Croatian agriculture and conditions in society were also followed by the DORH. And that this same DORH would not only be a fox that would come into the henhouse and determine which hens were missing so that he might come another night and pick them up, but that those who had picked up the first hens would bring them to court and that they would pay for what they did not do well. It's necessary. What do you need? Save the village and the peasants. In what way? Round table, analysis of everything that was bad. The analysis where we made a mistake, what we did, how we divided the country, how we shared the incentives of European funds, who got these incentives, how much they got these incentives, how these incentives were spent, whether they were purposefully spent, or whether Mr. Minister with funds from outside became a party mule who wore it and taught a pig to the party in his bank, and through this way dimmed the funds that were not purposefully spent. If that one round table were possible, but of course with the DORH and other institutions, so that everyone would twist their stocking to see who was what and how much revenue he made in his term, where is he now, where is he hiding? Did he spend his resources on the development of agriculture, obtaining a final product from raw materials, Croatian, which will satisfy the needs of Croatian people or end up in the Cayman Islands, in some villas, apartments and I don't know where else? We talk about it and argue here just like horns in a bag proving that we are better than those before us, and then they will prove to us that they are better than us. And it will all be so in the future, until we really get a real shepherd who loves his treasure and true treasure that he loves his shepherd, was in the form of a minister, president or any leader. When you believe in your leader and are ready to help him get to the finish line, then we will succeed in agriculture and life. Thank you. And I won't respond to the replicas, because I have to go to the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119708	Representative Culey, it is my job to offer representatives who have asked for replicas, whether they will refuse it afterwards. We'll see about that. Agent Kirin, you've reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119709	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister of Honor. Agriculture is a strategic economic interest and security interest, is the situation in agriculture satisfactory? Why do we import billions of agricultural products, which you think is possible to revive agriculture and become exporters from importers? Will the national strategy for agriculture development deliver results in your opinion? And do you think it's invested enough in agriculture so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119710	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119711	Your Honor, Vice President. Agriculture is very much invested, it's just a question of whether the funds have been spent, because we haven't finished all our products, we haven't used all the raw materials, and the resources that we have, that we have our own branded final product, with which we will be united, together, can be rivals and mate to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119712	Representative Misic asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119713	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Culey, you're leaving, but this is about how I'm gonna answer you. You were talking about a shepherd. The shepherd is a politician, politics should be moral and responsible, but not necessarily the responsibility of these 20 years. When Culey mentioned the henhouse,... Chicken. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, and we need to close the door so that this fox can't get into the henhouse anymore, we have to build a legal state and the resources that are being allocated to people, we have to control them... Of course it was such a part of the world, for 25 years I would say and I think this government will control it and then out of little control we'll do great wonders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The farmer produces today, but we don't have cattle, we don't have what he primarily lived and sold and his products that he produced through cattle and meat. Now there's a problem, there's been the destruction of that farm, which needs to be restored, and I know it's a process and I think this government is going to work on it, but if it doesn't, then it's unfortunate that we're not even on our way now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119714	Representative Pranic, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119715	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, Col. Culey mentioned the strategies in his presentation and today we're in the... In 2019, and we know that the programming period for Croatia ends in 2020. There are no round tables, there are no plans in any sector or agriculture sector that will take place in Croatia from 2020-2027. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this rural development, however, there will be so many shortages, and only in the case of kindergartens, which are also necessary for the development of the Croatian village, where new buildings will be built, and local self-government units will not be able to finance pedagogical staff. So when we talk about strategies, I agree that we should not go back to the past, which was, as it was, we can't change much there, but I'm afraid we haven't gone much further to the future either, because here, we're entering the minority in 2019 and we don't have many round tables or polemics or quality debates to define the programming, development guidelines of Croatia in 2027.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119716	Thank you. Representative Babic called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119717	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Culey, this may seem naive, which I'm about to say, but I think so, Mr. Culey is not here. And then there's no replica, there's no point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119718	Thank you. A representative, Domagoj Mikulić, appeared for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119719	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear State Secretarys with associates, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Following the Law on Agricultural Land, following the Law on the OPG, the Law on the Agricultural Chamber, today we are discussing the roof law on agriculture, a law that unites several laws, and EU regulations harmonizes the legal property of the EU, with the national legal system. This law defines the objectives and measures of agricultural policy and harmonizes it with the common agricultural policy. This law must also be seen as a framework for national agricultural policy, as it implies the adoption of national strategic and programming documents with national objectives, priorities, measures and mechanisms of action in the programming period 2014-2020, and in this period which we have left. Of course, the law must also be seen through the financial prism, because it allows 7 billion kn to be allocated annually for agriculture, right through rural development, through direct payments, market organisations and the like. What I would like to praise is the return of a green report or an annual report on the state of agriculture in the previous calendar year, which gives us a clearer picture of the situation in our agriculture and only in this way, with one realistic insight, we can work on a basis for a better preparation for the future agricultural period, or until 2027, of the common agricultural policy. This is also important because we see indications in the EU that not all Member States are looking at agriculture equally, and that we can only be firm and clear with our lobbying, attitudes and demands if we have solid foundations and accurate data and they are seen right from the green report. The establishment of an agronomic chamber and strengthening the Agricultural Chamber can create preconditions for the protection of our agronomists but of course also for attracting those new ones. Currently, worrying trends in enrolment for this profession are that should be one of the pillars of our economy in rural areas and certainly should be given a little more attention. And I've already said on several occasions, I'm going to repeat that and now, I think it's important and necessary to design one system, one mechanism, that every economy has a certain number of agronoms employed, because I think that a greater number of qualified agronoms with a well-compromised business of the economy would also result in higher contributions but also the revenues of our agricultural producers while providing young people with new jobs. I want to believe that in this way we will make our agricultural policy more resilient to the future and those challenges that the future brings, I believe that this policy will continue to be a support for farmers and rural communities to lead to sustainable development of agriculture, namely to ensure the sustainability, growth and development of the oily villages and our agricultural economies. And given that this law defines agriculture as a strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that this is essentially an introduction to the development of a long-term strategy for the development of agricultural production which, I am sure, would have been a clear signal, an incentive, an encouragement to all farmers, especially those young people who have yet to decide on this profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119720	Representative Panenic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119721	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Mikulić, the very strategic document should be the basis and determination of the policy we will lead in agriculture. We are now entering the period ahead of us, which is the new EU programming period where we see difficulties facing the common agricultural policy. We need to have a quick, quality answer and we need to actually be the ones who are pro-actively withdrawing funds. The strategy has yet to be completed and we will be welcomed by the adoption of the EU budget's feet, we need to work on a national plan, I think we have a lot ahead of us to do, and I'm afraid that somehow we always cough that we will welcome again unprepared. We come out of the cycle in a cycle, we go in unprepared, and then to whom we do the only damage, in fact all of us together here representing a political elite, doing damage to farmers, whether they shepherds, whether they're warlords, or anyone else, so politics has to be faster for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119722	Replica response, MP Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119723	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Panenic, I agree with you that the strategy in any business is the basis and it is important but we must all be realistic together and point out that this ministry has already done a lot of things so far so that the situation in agriculture that has really been difficult today, improved and here, it would point out perhaps the Agricultural Chamber, we have also recently had here as a legislative proposal where we have in some way strengthened it and strengthened it, and it is she who represents the interests of our farmers in these European associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119724	Representative Mader called in for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119725	Thank you, Vice President. My friend, you mentioned the Agricultural Land Act. You mentioned the Agricultural Chamber Act. Do you know how many competitions in Croatia have been opened under this new Agricultural Land Act that you consider to be very good? The Law on the Law on the Agricultural Chamber. You've been betting on the agricultural chamber practically, you've choked it. You created it partyically. And you have not given the development of the Agricultural Chamber and how much the Agricultural Chamber has ever helped to develop small, medium and large OPGs. How much she helped develop in rural areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119726	Replica response, MP Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119727	A respected colleague, related to the Agricultural Land Act, is partly responsible for our municipalities and counties who have not delivered their plans and we are here to create preconditions for something rather than to solve something. As far as the Agricultural Chamber itself is concerned, membership in the Agricultural Chamber alone brings a large number of benefits to farmers themselves and even through fuel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119728	Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119729	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Mikulic, is a real danger that there will be less money in the implementation of the common agricultural policy in the coming period. The real danger is that Croatia will then withdraw less money with European money for the development of agriculture. And then why are we still reducing this national part and it's shrinking in the budget and you haven't accepted the amendments to help pig farming as well as cattle production from the national budget. And you're moving away from the profession you're talking about, I'm an agronomist, and I'm sorry that fewer of our youngsters are enrolled in the Faculty of Agriculture and Agriculture because you need expertise in agricultural production and you're moving the profession away from the agricultural producers because by abolishing the Agriculture and Forestry Advisory Services and HPA, you'll basically leave the OPGs without professional help and then there will be no withdrawal of EU money or development of European agriculture and no strategy for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119730	Thank you. Replica response, MP Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119731	Dear fellow, since you have touched on common agricultural policy, just in order to be able to perform there, with concrete examples, it is good that we are now returning this green report which will give us a clear insight into the state of agriculture, so that we can later communicate and create both our and our priorities and the measures that are needed in order for agriculture to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119732	Representative Križanić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119733	Thank you, Mr. President. counterpart Mikulić, you said you should find a way to solve the problem of agronomic employment at the OPGs. And well, now the question is whether each of you can hire an agronomist, but surely that a agricultural firm or agricultural cooperatives should in some way be obliged, have in their composition agronomics and do you think that it is enough that agronomies operate within the agricultural and agronomic chambers and that they should be involved in agricultural pharmacies and I'm interested in how you think it is good to solve this problem of small interest of agronomics, for agronomic studies, then, students for agronomic studies. And how do you solve the problem of enroling future students in agronomic colleges?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119734	Replicate reply by MP Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119735	In view of your question, as far as the OPGs themselves are concerned, I think we need to point out that the OPGs themselves are mostly older persons, so I think it's necessary to activate both young and educated persons who are little, let's say a little faster and have some new knowledge and have some new visions from agricultural economies, and I believe that if they were given the opportunity, they would take their opportunity to justify their stay in certain agricultural economies. And as for reduced enrollment in this profession, I don't know what the consequence is, but I believe that we all have to work on it together, because this is one noble profession and indeed one here now with this law and the strategic part here in Croatia and we all have to work together to change that trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119736	Before we proceed with the replicas, Agent Beljak, you asked for a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119737	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the Assembly Clubs, MPs of the HSS, I'm looking for a 10-minute recess. In fact, the reason for that is that we need to consult as much as possible. Now the press, the public, the people who call us, are asking us what's going on. We are discussing one of the most important laws for Croatia's future, there is practically no one in the assembly, the chamber atmosphere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119738	I'm asking you MPs, don't throw away, don't have to teach you culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119739	What HDZ performs is a farce, all the amendments will be rejected, we can do all the expensive circus, all the people can laugh at us, the whole public, HDZ will do what it intended to do in advance, and that's destroying Croatia. I ask you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, to consider terminating the sessions until there is a quorum, not for the vote, but for the debate. What HDZ performs, but also other parties, is simply a disgrace. We are talking or we should discuss and discuss the argument, no insults, people who are part of the government should understand that they are not the government but the servants of the Croatian people and all Croatian citizens and on this subject and those positions should be joined in the making of any proposal, any law, and most of all the Croatian Agricultural Act that the HDZ has just destroyed, in 90%, and now it wants to satisfactory it to the end. And this pitching of colleagues to Babic, these throws, you know, it doesn't lead anywhere, it really doesn't lead anywhere, and that's what we should consult about. You've changed your rules of procedure in a way that forbids people to speak, and then you have circuses, then you have what happens on TV, and then everyone gets insecure together, and you're very serious about HDZ and you, Mr. Babic, are very serious and very well aware of what you're doing, benefiting from your own [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]] by the electoral body, you guess big, you destroy not only Croatian agriculture, but rather Croatian agriculture. [[Intruder Petrov: Time's up.]] You're destroying the Croatian state. [[Attack Petrov: Representative Beljak timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119740	So please do not warn others, for you yourselves are breaking the rules. Before I asked if there were any other advocates who wanted to take a word for it, MP Pernar answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119741	The Honorable Chairman, I would like to say, is the basic reason why I'm looking for a 10-minute break. is to draw public attention to the fact that this law will not solve problems in agriculture, as it has not been solved by all other laws dealing with agriculture itself. Because the problems in agriculture didn't come from inside, from agriculture itself, but from our monetary policy, which is such that it made food cheaper than domestic. They started by changing customs policy, then, by removing customs duties on cheaper food from imports. And these discussions that are happening here indefinitely, for as many years as God knows, it's all actually said by the Germans... We're wasting time here and the problems stay and don't get solved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119742	Would anyone else like to take a word for it? If I don't, I'm setting a 10-minute break. The sequel will be at 12.45. It's 12.35 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.46 HOURS]] There are two other replicas left for the individual presentation of MP Mikulic. The first is representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119744	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Mikulić, you mentioned the importance of the European Rural Development Fund as a roof fund that should help the Croatian peasant. But I personally believe that these are insufficient funds and that they should have more national resources approved in the state budget, national programmes, help, we must simply define them, not disperse them, so simply say which agricultural branches are strategic branches of Croatia because I will agree with my colleague Bulj at one debate on the amount of wine, because it is an abnormal system where we have an increase in tourism, and they are rapidly reducing the amount of produced wine when you watch 2011 and 409 thousand hectolitres, 2012 and 293 thousand hectolitres, 2013 and 249, all today up to 760 thousand hectolitres, meaning production has been halved, which says today that the National Plan does not have enough national resources to help our farmers, our farmers, above all, our winemakers. concrete Dalmatin burns [[Intruder: Time's up]] For many people it is both primary and secondary activity. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119745	Thank you, reply to the replica representative Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119746	Dear colleague Pranic, well, we recently had the Wine Act here in the Parliament, so what you're saying is essentially not the subject of the Law itself, but here I'm just going to tell you one fact that somewhere around 50 percent of the wine envelope has been used, so it's not quite true that the funds are not there, but they're simply not used enough, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119747	Representative Shuker also reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of HS, Mr. Minister. My colleague Mikulić, you have very well conceived your debate and perhaps there was just one more cream on the cake, which is to mention that this Law will be as good and as successful as we are preparing and helping our farmers to withdraw funds from the European Funds and I think that the experience from the previous period simply shows us that we have to find ways to help prepare the documentation and prepare for the withdrawal of these funds. And by the way, counterpart Mikulić, has noticed how crowded the hall is today in the debate on the Agriculture Act. Those who stood there yesterday around the pay phone practically have none at the Assembly. So much love and desire to help Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119749	MP Mikulić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119750	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker. I agree with you that it is necessary and necessary to inform our farmers, in particular when we talk about withdrawing funds from the European Funds and I also agree with you that what we had here yesterday in the Parliament performance of certain parliamentary representatives was absolutely unnecessary because most of them, in fact only one of those esplanades here is currently here in the Parliament and discussing the law that they were full of mouths yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119751	Representative Ivan Lovrinovic reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First I welcome the Minister of Agriculture with my associates here in the Parliament. And before I begin to say that the Committee on Agriculture of the Party we change Croatia analyzed the proposal of this Law. Our experts, so I'm not going to stay here just for criticism, for we see too many circuses and shows here these days. The opposition must know what it wants, and the Change Party Croatia is the programme leader of the opposition although there are still not so many members. However, in the programming sense, we really offer solutions. I'll talk today, dominantly about solutions. But to talk about solutions, I still need to point out some key problems in the proposal for this Agriculture Act that we are discussing here today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as you know, the Republic of Croatia has never had and has no strategy to develop agriculture. If I'm wrong, somebody get up and say it right now, you're not telling the truth. If we do not have a strategy, and in order to develop a strategy, we must have a agricultural product balance in every way, of all products. If we have a balance of agricultural products, can citizens see what we're producing, how much, what we're missing, we don't have gentlemen. So if we don't have a balance of agricultural products, production, if we don't have a strategy of agriculture, then we can't, what kind of agricultural policy are we going to be, what kind of agricultural policy are you going to run by the gentlemen of the Ministry of Agriculture? So you can't run any agricultural policy. So this is one very meaningful conclusion. Now you want to turn this law into a agricultural policy, right? Now we know that the law can't be a substitute for agricultural policy. At the beginning of today, the Minister of Agriculture said that he still sees the light at the end of the tunnel, he told the farmers, and I think Mr. Minister that they don't see it and that only you seem to see it. In this context, your objectives set out in the Agriculture Act are general, they are unclear and as such inaccessible or difficult to achieve. And what are the key segments of agriculture that interest each producer? The most important thing is for the peasant to know that he'll be able to sell what he's making. It means that agricultural policy guarantees him the purchase of agricultural products. It's not there. You don't mention it anywhere. What is yet to be a key goal, the next key objective in the opinion of the Party Change Croatia, means, in addition, the increase in production after EU entry in 2013, agricultural production generally fell 20%. Croatia has never had a small agricultural production since independence, it has been devastated and simply certain segments of production have been completely compromised. Which is still a key segment of agricultural policy, and this must have been meant in part to be translated into law. It is the financing of agriculture, because it is essential for the peasant to know that he can sell his product when they produce, so that he can rejoice next year, spring, ora, etc., it is important to him how he will finance that means his work in the field or what he grows in his stables. Finance is simply an obviously secondary area to you. There are no more stories about Agrobanks, you peasants are directed towards commercial banks, these are overpriced loans, you direct them towards HABOR, and these loans are expensive, and those who receive loans from HABOR are dominant, those most must be members of the HDZ and coalition of this government. They set impossible conditions when asking HABOR for loans, asking farmers for guarantees, so that he has guarantees, that he has money he wouldn't come looking for, you understand. You're obviously not in touch with people who have problems. Furthermore, an important segment, a key segment of agricultural policy is tax policy, there has been a lot of talk about it, about which Party Change Croatia had amendments, but all of you refused. The next important segment of agricultural policy is agricultural land, state agricultural land. You see, there's about 850,000 acres of state agricultural land anywhere that's not listed, Mr. Minister. No one knows where it is, it's just certain groups, why they can assign or re-apply to their stakeholders. So it's not meant to be politics. In that sense, I have a specific question for you ministers. Obviously you write messages, you don't get to listen to me, right, you don't have to listen well, but the public listens. Agokor's contract to rent 170,000 hectares of best country in the municipality of Trpinj expired. Since the Russians have taken the meaning of Agrokor, dominantly, will you, what your position is, will you bow down to the land to go to the Russians or will you go to local producers, and in the municipality of Tripinja there are several villages of Brshadin there is this one now, as this one is called, a little I forgot that one, Bobota etc. Or you'll make sure the local community gets land so it doesn't matter if any of your cousins there get a hectare I wouldn't object to at all. So, what's waiting with that, with that contract, what's the attitude that's expired is a five-year lease, you see the Russians have taken over, we don't have an answer to those questions. In this context, to be people very open and clear, the agricultural policy of previous governments and these current governments was in fact, no one will say that publicly, but destroying a small producer and favouring selected and created large producers and foreign trade chains. Well, isn't it clear to anyone that we have such a agricultural policy right now, that means destroying a small producer, and since I never speak without a clue and without arguments, in 2003 you nailed the last nail in the coffin. Why? It is decided that anyone who has under 5 cows or 4 has no support and you have simply destroyed them, the cattle of Croatia. And what else did you do? Well, you drove people out. Ma's key segment and the interest of the agricultural policy that we advocate is that there must be this small producer, one cow, one cow, three, three, you'll get a boost but the milk will also be bought, but you sold the dairy, you sold everything to strangers, and now you'd be running some agricultural policy. You can't lead anything, you can just listen. And that side of the power centers. What we're going to do when we're part of the government, or serving the citizens, is we're going to return the stock reserve instrument, so first we're going to buy home production, then we're going to import what's missing, of course we're going to regulate prices. Stock reserves will be an instrument of price regulation, you have abolished it so it can be manipulated, we will build and encourage an entire chain of coolants in Croatia, to stop at last or to minimise speculation. On the other hand, we will declare Croatia a country of healthy food, so declare you, we will agree not to write below that we have proposed, we will protect domestic products, and thus contribute to health policy because health policy begins with the field and from the barn, gentlemen. It is approaching 2020 when Croatia's agricultural land will be able to be sold, I call on the opposition, I call on you to bring into the Constitution that agricultural land cannot be sold to foreigners. In this context, I could simply conclude, I could talk a lot about it, but citizens already know everything, especially the agricultural producers who listen to me, are already full of our stories, but dear citizens are clear to you, and those who do not need to be clear that the new agricultural policy, which is in your interest, will protect you, who will prefer you to ransom and who will protect you that they can only export and bring new people, new political parties to the scene because these garments, they only take care of their interest groups, are not developed, and we see that agricultural production in Croatia is almost destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119753	Before we leave with the replicas, we would like to welcome together students and students of the Veleuciary University in Sibenik. ... Representative Hajdukovic reported on the replica. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119754	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrinović, since I am from this region, I will only remind you of the villages that you forgot in the municipality of Trpinj, so, Bobota, Vera,... Ludgins and Chile. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I wanted to look back on something else. What you mentioned about the lack of strategy and that is unfortunately, I repeat it constantly in this House and it is evident not only in agriculture but in most of what we are trying to regulate. And finally, at the beginning of last year, if I'm not mistaken, if not this one, but I think it was past, that the secretary of state assured us that the strategy was about to be gone. And as for the reform, so look, there are reforms. Currently, the Ministry of Agriculture is 13 officials, ministers, 3 state secretaries and 9 assistants, and now by abolishing the Croatian Agricultural Agency, and advisory services where both directors have an coefficient of 3.1 will now become another 2 ministerial assistants with a coefficient of 5.25. So in the Ministry of Agriculture there will be 15 officials, while the time of the SPD was only 9. Then don't say there's no reform and no employment if there's no better pay, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119755	Thank you. Replicate response, MP Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119756	Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, I have heard this information about strengthening the team at the Ministry of Agriculture and I think in that number that they could prepare an entire EU agricultural policy, by the number of people there who have other coefficients for the benefits they have there. But I would point out, I will take this opportunity to point out another problem, since Croatia's entry into the EU, such a contract has been signed, as much as the EU's funds have been sent, to encourage rural development and the rest, so much to be paid out of the state budget. Do you and the others know that from then on until the end of 2017. 3 billion and 400 million kn, not paid by the Ministry of Agriculture, farmers, and that's about 65% of the missing funds to farmers, so they're being killed financially so they can't take the preparation of crops and everything else. So you're the ones who just destroy agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119757	Thank you. Representative Sagar, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119758	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Lovrinović, you have opened one important topic and these are indicators that can show us the directions in which we are going. I'm going to say one like this, maybe the data is right, I'm going to point them out now, if no. The domestic waste poultry, the cost of production is also waste, and the processing cut is growing, and the price of poultry on the market is growing, and then someone's stealing our chickens. It's not the market that's going to solve it on its own. It is the ministry that needs to take measures to protect the domestic producer and to increase its competitiveness. Because if we leave it to the market, it won't be good. And because of this, the indicators are what I warned the minister, the Green Paper of the situation in agriculture, which last year was our basis, to make a strategy for further development of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119759	Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119760	Dear colleague Žagar, I agree with what you said, so there is no protection there, that we understand each other, so let me remind you of 10 tons of meat sold in Croatia, various, is only one ton originating in Croatia. On the other hand, you have former officials, who now have some of their own stables, they import from Romania's calves, they get like they came here, right, and they get incentives for that and they simply live on it, not from what they produce. This country is intertwined with clientism and corruption. We can't do any politics. I as an economist at the university professor, I realized, especially here in the Parliament, that there is no lumen and mind that can spend anything until we deal with clientism and these others. But I can't do that to people who have been so far. Only new people can apply Croatia, and these moments are counting and that time will come I ask the citizens for support to finally deal with all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119761	Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119762	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Lovrinović, you have detected well, one of the main problems which is the market, the Croatian market, agricultural products, which is practically not available, then, which is dictated by the trade chains, which clearly corresponds to both the Government and the Ministry, because the highest budget of VAT is being filled, but unfortunately this is VAT on imported products. And then when we proposed as an opposition to the amendment to reduce VAT on agriculture, food products, to 5.7 below 10%, such as VAT on the same products in the environment, to stimulate the purchase of Croatian products and to raise production, no hearing was refused all amendments. And the worst of these years was our fruit and apple producers where it wasn't helped to get rid of apple surpluses. And here I am today, hearing from our pigs, no support for pig growing, no intervention buying pigs, even though there is a series of... Which our peasants have no one to sell to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the main problems that need to be solved.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119763	Replicate response, MP Lovirović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119764	Dear colleague Vlaovic completely agrees about it, so look at the OPG, so why is the OPG not defined anywhere, what is it? You have 3 OPGs in one yard today. He's downstairs from his grandfather, on the first floor of his son, and in the attic from his grandson. What's that for? Well, that's for potential machinations, you understand. Well, you have a situation today in assessing the cost of certain incentives there, but you understand that there's a White in the O.P.G. category, which you know as well as I do. It's all done on purpose, so none of the farmers can understand because they're not people who are going to dig through the papers, so we have to do it together, finally, to un-scramble this corrupt system, and that's what the opposition is for, and we're going to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119765	Representative Mader called in for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119766	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Lovrinović, a colleague of Lenart's, said in his presentation we all know who have opinions of farmers about cooperatives, those old opinions, what do you think about establishing cooperatives and about these some bonuses that would have members of these cooperatives since not paying VAT, from cooperative leaders to have some privileges, could they then achieve more OPGs in one cooperative and become competitive? So I'm asking your opinion on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119767	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119768	Well, I'm a completely co-worker here, and I can agree with you, Croatian agriculture needs modern cooperatives, but look on the other hand, we have a highly developed cooperative in agriculture, but you know what? Political cooperative, there are members of the ruling coalition, some of the connected networks, in the banks' institutions, these are importers, it's a tremendously developed cooperative and it works for us, in a rather vague way technically but perfectly functioning. There are money flows there, the ransom is well rewarded there, it's taken there, it's not sown, it's rewarded, so there's no offering, but it's all going on in such a country, so that kind of thing goes on. So let's finally get this straight, and we invite citizens who don't go to the polls, this is our motive, let's get out of here and figure this out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119769	Thank you. The following is the statement of view on behalf of the club. A representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic also appeared for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now let's get back to the topic of agriculture and I'll start with what I always start with, and that's a lack of vision, a lack of strategies, let alone the network of the strategy for the development of agriculture with any other, so either it's the development of tourism, the economy or any other. As I've said before, if I'm not mistaken last year, then the secretary of state and she's still the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture assured us that the agricultural strategy is in the works, that she's about to be discussed very quickly. But here's a year, almost two years later, still from the strategy of the S, let alone some broader debate about where our agriculture is going. The Agriculture Act, which is before us, of course refers to what has already been mentioned, which is 13 EU regulations which are not part of the existing law, the introduction of a code of alimony, the prevention of food waste, the definition of a self-sustained agricultural holding as a natural person and the alignment with the OPG Law, these are, of course, all positive things but far from helping or pushing it in the direction we want it to go. First because we don't know what direction it is we want to push and secondly because this is just a small drop in the sea of that which corrects all the disadvantages that agriculture faces. In fact, what should be introduced into this law is a provision that the difference to 100% of the right of direct support currently paid by about 20% less, so 100% will be paid from the EU in three years, so that the amount must be compensated from the budget of the Republic of Croatia. And why is that? Because our agricultural production falls year after year. Every year the share increases... in direct support, thereby reducing the share of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And until in 2020, the share of aid from the EU reaches so that 100% of our farmers are currently cut off and in an unequal situation with other farmers from European countries who receive 100% direct support because they do not receive it, so the state does not compensate them for this missing difference. So I wonder if it's so great in the budget, if there are so many deficits why farmers aren't being helped. So no one prevents the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Agriculture from providing additional funds for our farmers to reach these 100% direct support as well as other EU farmers. However, there are some additional issues that are related to agriculture, agricultural production, although if not necessarily, perhaps for this law that would like to enter into the debate. Namely, the answer to the question you would like to get, now the minister has no but there is a secretary of state, co-workers of both the Government or the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State who thinks to stop the negative trends in agriculture, so the source of the data is in this case the State Department of Statistics, is being reduced by production in almost all segments especially in livestock, and does the Government have any strategy of putting this resistor on my feet? Since there is no broader strategy for the development of agriculture, I suppose there is no. Is the Minister or the Ministry, are the State Secretarys aware that for their term of office the results in agriculture are getting worse from year to year and what do they think about this matter other than the adoption of formal law as this law in agriculture do? So thread, come up with a strategy for agriculture. Why is the agricultural and forestry advisory service or any other agency being abolished in the end? For example, the Croatian Agricultural Agency. That same number of people in the same places will actually work for better wages actually at the Ministry of Agriculture and so only further accumulate the state officials because I spoke in the replica before, at the time of the SDP government there were 9, so Minister, Deputy and Assistants, now there will be 15, so Minister, 3 Secretary of State, as many assistants as you will. As my colleague Lovrinović spoke of so many officials, then we would expect much, much, much better results. So it's the only agricultural reform I've seen lately. How's the land reform coming? It's been almost a year since the Law on Agricultural Land was passed, how many tenders were called, how many lands were assigned? The abolition of the Agricultural Land Agency has stopped all processes in the conduct of tenders for state agricultural land and yet the number of ministry employees has increased. What are the effects of abolishing the agency, both on the distribution of the state agricultural country and on the work of the ministry itself, so these are all some questions in which there are no more answers or will be that I do not believe in the foreseeable time. In the pre-election campaign, in the pre-election period, the current agriculture minister was the main critic of the rural development programme that was adopted during the SDP government and if he was so bad that the minister criticised him for not changing him or improving him in any form, because it could be changed up to three times in the operational financial period by 2020. And let me now some statistics, so this is a graph, this is the latest EU report that tells you about the rate of absorption of the Rural Development Programme for 2014. – 2020. this in the middle is the EU average, and Croatia is here. So, at the beginning, at the beginning. So, of the 22 members, the EU's 28-member pardon is 22 for the inability of EU rural development funds, so that's your graph here, the best Finland is 52%, Croatia is just slightly above 20%, and the European average is 30%, so the fat is below, below average. The coverage of imports of agricultural and food products has never been lower. The year after year, so if we look at 2016, they're getting smaller and lower agricultural production we have, and we still don't have all 100% direct support. The lack of strategy and what we suffer for is exactly that. If you also look at the data that is allocated from the state budget to incentives, how much is allocated from the EU budget for 2017, it comes to you that the EU budget is set out 2.3 billion while the Croatian budget is allocated 1 billion, which is 3.4 billion. If you compare this to, for example, 2011 so the amount was 3.4 billion amounts are different in shifts but the total amount of decline. And this falls particularly in 2015 and 2016 where redundancies from the Croatian budget are much smaller. If you compare the allocations from the Republic of Croatia budget in 2010, they amounted to 3.5 billion, and now they amount to 1.08, so all data from the Ministry of Agriculture from the State Department of Statistics. What do we have to do? So this law is a step in the right direction, but the step I would call it, but it's not enough and it's not going to solve all the problems, the accumulated problems I've been talking about now, and the main ones of which, if you ask me, is the lack of vision. As long as we don't have a clear picture where we develop agriculture, in which direction, which producers, which cultures, are we more focused on livestock, warfare, so what? The EU is a large market in which we have access without any restrictions, but in this large market they can only survive specialised. There was a lot of talk about pigmeat and pigmeat production during today’s debate. What I can tell you is that we will never be able to deal with Danish pig meat production. Why? Because for decades, the Danes have directed their agriculture towards being the largest and thus the most competitive pigmeat producers in the EU. If we're going to stay on this segment as far as we can and where we can be competitive, so we can be competitive in some other products, especially dry meat products. On which and whose branding we also do not work enough, these are for example Slavonic tower or baranja tower, ham, Dalmatian prosciutto etc. However, not only have we not branded them, but we don't have enough quantities, we don't have incentives, we don't have guidance that our manufacturers are focusing on the production of these products, so they can place them on the market, that they have a uniform quality, a recipe and a brand, of which all is missing. From the least that was actually the setting up of the agricultural product market to this wider picture. There is a lot of talk about the merger of green and blue Croatia, but we have been bringing people together for 25 years and not at all. So, all the legal proposals including this one should be in the service of broader visions that we unfortunately still don't have and I hope that because of the increase in state The official will soon find a strategy in front of the assembly. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119772	Thank you, Agent Hajdukovic. Before we leave with the replicas, I would like to welcome everyone together to welcome the students and pupils of the “Ivan Lucica” High School from Trogir. It is more of a replica to the presentation of Representative Hajdukovic, the first replica being the representative of Nikola Grmoi. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119773	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the students and their teachers, Professor. You talked about how our production fell, our livestock was low, my colleague Paneninić and colleague Pranic talked about how our wine production fell, our HDZ colleagues rebelled during their discussions, and I've been watching a little, and it's really happening I don't know why they have statistics problems. We'd all like it if it wasn't like that, but it's happening. It also happens to us that what we produce we fail to place on the market. So from down my Mandarins in the Neretva Valley to grapes of all other products. So the less we produce, the incentives were never bigger said by colleagues Bulj and then what we do has no place to place because imports are too big, these are problems, I think the Ministry of Agriculture is doing very little to solve these key problems of Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119774	Replication response by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, that a colleague and not only is wine production the one that falls, namely all the wine produced in Croatia can be consumed in Croatia and we still have to introduce to satisfy the demand. So, if we're talking about Croatia as some big wine producer, we've never been that, unfortunately. And not only does wine production fall, but olives, or olive oil, pork, you're talking about mandarins, apples, lack of infrastructure, refrigeration, combined market performance, and we're coming back to the main one with no vision. Why our inputs in agriculture are getting bigger and bigger, and the cars and production are getting smaller and smaller. That's why ad hoc is done, it's done most often by guessing, by currently pushing a certain aspect of agriculture, which is of someone's interest, and without a broader vision, and then we come to what you said, we don't have a market, we don't have a recognizable product, we don't have enough, we can't place it, and unfortunately, for agriculture there's no forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119776	Representative Babic, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119777	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleague Hajdukovic, frankly, I thought I'd rephrase it differently for you, but when you showed this graph the usability of the rural development funds, then I have to rephrase you differently. So, I'm one of those who doesn't like to go back to the past, which someone did, but if we were to talk about it now, from Minister Tarnaj to Minister Tolusic today, then we could talk about positive and negative attitudes. I don't believe going to a minister who worked at the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't want to harm agriculture, the village and the peasants. If he did such damage, he did it in an indirect way to himself. But impossible, let's say, when you speak, just remember Minister Jakovina, I wouldn't have told you for sure if you hadn't offered me sugar quotas, the departures of his associates, the agricultural land, but what happened here, and today we're talking about the Agriculture Act, the agricultural land and the O.P.G., we talked about it, we had It's in the normative plan and it's today. [[Intruder: Time's up]] Every recommendation and suggestion is welcome. [[Employee: Thank you, Commissioner Babic]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119778	Replication response by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119779	Thank you very much. In some ways, they may agree, therefore, that not all ministers, nor all people who were involved in the system of agriculture, worked small fide or in bad faith. Of course not. But we need to be aware of that if we don't have a wider picture and a vision where we want to direct our agriculture and economy in general and the Republic of Croatia as such, all we do is ad hoc, chaotic, present and very transient. If we had been handed over through several ministers, now irrelevantly from which political options we were working on one goal, which is, for example, the merger and, the famous merger of green and blue RH or wine production, the production of olive oil, I don't know, the production of dry meat, over 25 years, that would have produced results, but with each new minister, each has some new priorities and are all short breaths and deadlines and then it brings you where we are now or nowhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119780	Representative Prelec also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119781	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Hajdukovic, when we talk about why our agricultural products are more expensive than those Europeans, then we can say that they are not in an equal position. One reason why they are not in an equal position is precisely the means paid by the state to farmers. You said that 80% are paying this over EU funds, 20% is not paying out of the Croatian component's funds, and that is evident. I'm sorry that farmers are simply not in an equal position, but that's what it is. I hope this changes, but we talked about it, or here, and the minister was talking about that 30% of allocation funds were used, not 30%, but 21%, and that's still standing on this table of yours. Unfortunately, both Greece and Romania are ahead of us, and we see them with little ridicule, but unfortunately they are ahead of us, as well as the other 20 countries on that scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119782	Thank you, reply to the replica by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119783	Thank you very much. So, it's an EU scale unfortunately, here I can read you all the countries that are ahead of the Republic of Croatia, but that would be a very long time for me to read because they're almost everything. I can read to you the ones behind us. But that we are far below average, absolutely that, that we have prepared well for the EU, absolutely not. And if you are looking at, therefore, the absorption of the funds that have been available to us, not only, therefore, in this component relating to agriculture, but in general, so, 2012, 2013, 2012, that was not great, only in 2013 we see progress and therefore, constant growth there until 2016 and 2017 again decline. And you know what that's all about? So when HDZ comes to power, because the projects must be prepared, so the projects can't go one year after another, but I can go for the next, and I'm afraid that this fall will just continue, and then if you see these beautiful statistical indicators, so if I'm lying, I don't lie numbers, it's all clear to you why it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119784	Representative Lenart has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119785	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's colleague Hajdukovic, you've listed, the former government had a smaller secretary of state, an assistant, this one has more, right? I believe that at the Ministry who's with the agencies an advisory ex-service... So 1500 to 2000 employees in such a large sector and on such major problems it's totally irrelevant whether there are several state secretaries more or less, they better be more because the problems are big. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the problem is the efficiency and measures coming out of the ministry. Whether these measures and those State Secretarys and all those employees working there contribute to the development of agriculture or not contribute. I think it's a bigger problem and a few people no longer or less represent nothing. However, their work if there are several more will likely be greater if they know their work and if they did not come here as industries, but if they came as experts, their contribution would be far greater than if there were fewer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119786	Thank you. Replication response by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119787	Well, I could agree with my colleague for a little while. However, the number of employees alone and the number of state officials, as you said, is not a guarantee of quality, that, I would be absolutely for, so let us have 500 State Secretarys if this means that there will be improvement. But unfortunately, there's much more common than the national, lots of midwives, the kilo kid, the left doesn't know what he's doing on the right, and yet again why, because we don't have a strategy, we don't have a strategy of colleagues, we don't know where we're developing, we don't know which direction we want to go and we don't know what kind of agriculture we want. Is it farm-oriented on livestock, on warfare, on wine production, on olive oil, on the production of raw materials, therefore, meat for consumption, whether or not on meat processing, etc., etc. Until we know that, a billion State Secretarys will not help us because we first need to decide what we want to do effectively.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119788	Representative Vlaovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119789	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, we don't have a strategy, and here, we'll have the Agriculture Act. However, neither this law will solve problems in agriculture nor that we have a strategy, since agriculture has long been in our national programmes of the strategic branch of the economy. The problem is to approach because, under the strategic approach we have, agriculture is brought to that level that we have a decline in the production of both milk and meat production, and this year, after a disaster in fruit farming, there will probably be a decline in both growers and fruit production, vegetables and not to add any further. It is crucial to financially monitor what is being introduced through the Law and the Strategy into the programme for the development of Croatia's agriculture. Because if we in the national component don't pay what we can pay our farmers, if we don't listen to opposition appeals to put support for pork through the amendment, then I don't see what to do with any laws if we don't implement them. We are just going to make a new cost, because now employees of the Advisory Service and of the Croatian Agricultural Agency are being translated into the Ministry, we will lose a year just to write testimonies and solutions, regulations and changing records. And the farmers will be alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119790	Replica response, MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119791	Thank you very much, my colleague. The strategy, of course, and the adoption of the strategy itself will not solve all the problems. We also brought a strategy for education development, so did that solve the problems? No, I don't. Mostly because when we bring it in, we don't stick to it. But if you ask me, and I'm going to paraphrase a great politician, who I'm not, I don't really agree with, but who said this well. So the strategy would not end the problem in agriculture, there would be no beginning of the end of the problem, but perhaps it would be the end of the start that was very bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119792	Representative Bulj, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119793	Thank you very much. Comrade Hajdukovic, it was clear here and you said so. This law is just a harmonisation with EU legislation, nothing more, nothing less. It is another thing that Minister Tolusic has a good PR and he announces it as some sort of solution for Croatian agriculture. But if Minister Tolusic saw the fact that now that tourism is growing, that we import the most wine and pork and food products and products from cereals, then the bakery products are visible, I welcome the students, then it is visible that the ministry does not have a strategy, but does not respect absolute village and peasants. Because talking about the Agriculture Act and respecting directives that we are not, and putting on directives that we do not respect and serve only European officials is the least offensive to the village and peasants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119794	Replication response by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119795	Well, my colleague, I think we can say that this government has a better PR than the results, so let's say, Project Slavonia is the best proof of that. We've written down all the projects we have, all the projects we've implemented, no matter who, the unit of local self-government, the development agency, the ministry, the agencies, we've put all of this on paper, and we've done a lot of work for Slavonia as our neighborhood which has been extremely affected by the eviction and which has been affected by the crisis, etc., etc. And what exactly did we do? So nothing, nothing, nor did we give Slavonia anything that doesn't belong to her, so if you split the money available from the European financial framework into quarters, and let's say that Croatia has four regions or five, you get that amount that they give to Slavonia. If I didn't see anything else in this case, just a lot of PRs, just a lot of words, and the results are still missing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119796	Representative Sagar has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119797	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Hajdukovic, this diagram you have raised is very good, it shows a blood count of Croatian agriculture. It shows much more than what you said it only speaks about the level of success of withdrawing funds from the European Union funds. Well, you said later in the replica, it takes a lot of time to prepare projects, but to prepare projects, people need to know which way they're going, there should be some strategy. Well, then when the evaluation of these projects, in the approval of funds, can't go down the political line, and now we're going to reward him, so his project will pass. And when you ask these so-called. Regional coordinators, development agencies, as they determine, are mostly political decisions for you. So there must be clear guidelines, more of these projects, and ultimately there must be a successful withdrawal of funds, that people develop, otherwise, here you are Slavonac, you could sing with you “Curusely little corns, little peasants but you've gone crazy. ”
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119798	Replication response by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119799	Thank you very much. So that colleague, and that this graph, therefore, relating to rural development, is indicative in fact of everything that is done in Croatia, i.e. our complete absorption of funds. Because you said rightly, so you need to design projects, you need to know how we want to develop them, or what they need to develop, in order to ultimately benefit. But what's the problem, so you contract the funds, you don't get them right away, but only after the audit says that everything was okay with the funding, then you get funds from the European Union. So there's no lurking, there's no taking money, annex contracts, etc., etc. It's all got to be Lege artis. And you know that's not the most common thing. And I'm even afraid that this graph will be worse because we have the agreed funds but not the ones that have finally been paid and who have received a positive opinion of the revision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119800	Mr. Vesligaj has reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119801	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so you said well, no plan, no vision, no idea in the development of agriculture, because if there were then you would probably encourage some optimism in those people where the laws that we bring about agriculture, and this is one of them, then they would encourage optimism in them, so they would encourage optimism in peasants. And now the Rural Development Programme, weighing more than 2 billion kunas, of which was really very much expected, and what did the peasants end up getting? Most of them very, very little. Every time you enter something new, and the Rural Development Programme was something new, Croatia entered the European Union, so it started using these, you have problems at the very beginning. We've had a lot of criticism since the opposition, so you didn't get it right, you've had long deadlines because you haven't called the competitions, but I don't see any big shifts, our tenders continue to last for a long time, some and more than a year since the call, we don't have optimism in agriculture, and it's actually not going in the right direction, and nobody can deny me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119802	Thank you. Representative Culey has come forward for the replica. Excuse me, Agent Culey. Replication response by Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll take an example from the municipality where my esteemed colleague Panenic came from. So, one small village of Chakovci, you know who deals in agriculture there? Definitely as a rule, old people. So over 60 years that have been there for years, so, which can't go anywhere, not to the city or abroad, and I'm afraid when they die that there won't be anyone left in that village who's going to deal with agriculture, maybe even one or two more houses, which is said, instead of, what you say returning optimism, instead of doing at least what we as legislators and states can do, so to make it profitable and help farmers, it seems to me that the whole system was designed to get rid of it, to motivate them not to deal with it. And why is that? To get some big companies a lot of land because they don't answer to competitions anyway, or they don't have conditions. Like Agrokor and the others. And we all know how it ended in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119804	Agent Culey has requested a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119805	My dear young colleague, I know you're pulling roots from my neighborhood, so I'll explain to you who destroyed the peasants, especially milk producers. He destroyed your former Minister Jakovina, and I hope you warned him that you only raised 1 promil alphatoxin in corn and milk, and that he did not destroy milk, and thus destroyed it, and completely milking, that cows were sold for 5,000 kunas and destroyed, only on the 1st Prom, that he raised alphatoxin, as from 0 to 0.5 he raised alcohol and immediately proved that the wine was better sold and that the winemakers had passed, so the dairy would survive, and today I would eat Croatian baby beef. And your Minister Jakovina, if he came to the country, I'd tell him what's being said in shock, and if he asked for a job with someone else's boss, he'd tell him, look at him, let his son eat, and go home. Don't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119806	Replica response, MP Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119807	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow, here I am, I must really say that then Minister Jakovina is an extremely capable man, who, all you've been building and the HDZ government has been building for so many years, he's managed to destroy in just four years. Unfortunately, responsibility cannot be on one man, and I can now list others, who were peeling potatoes and I don't know what they were doing, and the list would be lengthy, but most of those names would be from yours, from your party colleagues. So if we're going to talk about, then about the shocking sayings, and I'm a shocker, I can say that, what's smart is ashamed of, that's what a fool is proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119808	Thank you very much. He's got his hand up, and he'll probably be looking for a break, right? I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119809	Thank you very much. He's got his hand up, and he'll probably be looking for a break, right? I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119810	Thank you very much. Uh, of course I'll give you a break, so I'll see you at 14:24. MEETING IN 14.15 HOURS CONTINUED AFTER STANDING 14.27 HOURS of colleagues and colleagues, here's the break we're running out of, and now the individual debate will have a respected representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119812	Thank you, dear Vice President. The law on agriculture as a roof law should speak of life in the country, but you should accept that life in the country and accept it as it really is and in all its parts. Unfortunately, this part of rural development is neglected, tradition is ignored, village customs are neglected, and customs related to agricultural production are also observed. Unfortunately, our national agriculture policy does not oppose everything the EU carries. Some have said today whether you want to be EU members or not. We have decided that we want to be members of the EU but we do not have to accept at all costs everything the EU is trying to impose on us because our customs, our agriculture are far different from some of the EU's farms. We know how far the farms of Western countries have gone, that their soil is far, far more polluted than Croatian soils, that their biodiversity has decreased compared to the biodiversity of the Republic of Croatia and that this is all what is our comparative advantage and what we should preserve with this kind of resistance to the EU. The EU brings us some other things that concern seminary. It is precisely this biological diversity with the EU's unified seminary that is also lost in our country. But seeding is a major problem for Croatian agriculture. Since seminary in the Republic of Croatia as regards Croatian seed houses and science has been stagnating for a long time and has not followed the trends that occur in the world related to seed production, so the Republic of Croatia's market has been flooded by multinational companies offering their seeds but controlling that seed from the shit of the Republic of Croatia is not good and unsatisfactory in terms of quality. Seed material in the Republic of Croatia is far worse quality than it is in the EU countries, all farmers using seed in war cultures will testify, the matter of sleekness and quality is significantly below the level. Soya is a special culture that proved it last year. Unfortunately, all that is used in Croatian agriculture is mostly more expensive than it is in older members and developed EU members. Used machines that we import mainly from Western countries, in Croatia when they come are far more expensive than they are because there are always intermediaries who earn, there are givings that go on these machines and transport. Reproduction is more expensive in Croatia, fuel is more expensive in Croatia, parts are more expensive in Croatia than in EU countries. It's just one segment that we can't be competitors. Our service networks do not monitor well enough the development of new technologies related to agricultural machines and often it is very difficult to service or repair new tractors and this requires significantly higher costs than they are. The agricultural product market in the Republic of Croatia is not regulated, we cannot say at all that our market has been regulated, it is left to the verse, I as a agricultural producer who deals with both warfare and vegetables alone. I'm left to choose where to store my grain, to find a buyer and sell it. As for vegetable products, if I'm left to shopping malls, then I'll simply have to fail because all of the center's actions are done on the backs of our agricultural producers. Markets in the Republic of Croatia as far as vegetable offers are concerned, are simply disappearing. They have fallen, our producers unfortunately cannot sell their production in the markets, much of their goods are failing and slowly and they are shutting down their production and yet first they come to buying and selling someone's goods because they know exactly how much their profits are. Many producers in the field have complained to me in recent days about ministry officials and agency officials. Very often, officials can't get on the phone, no one answers the phones at the ministry, they don't answer phones at the Payment Agency, and then when they do, often the employees are boastful, rude and act like the villagers are there for them and not the other way around. If there are no agricultural producers, there will be no staff at the ministry and then there will be no need for the Ministry of Agriculture, so I ask you that if there are, and there are such cases that you take a little more care of the officers you may not even know how they behave, but it is very embarrassing to listen to the stories of farmers who are 30 years old in that business complaining that someone offended them and told them that they do not need them. I hope that's not the rule, that it's exceptions in the ministry, but here, please take care of these exceptions as well. What is the problem of Croatian agriculture is industriousness. All of these 27-year-old governments have been stockpiling their position at the ministry, in agencies that mainly have nothing to do with the work they're doing. As a State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism myself, I witnessed that 2/3 of the people in the ministry are ballast, and 1/3 knows, they will and can work which they all take advantage of. The problem with our ministry is just that, maybe someone's funny, ma'am, I didn't, I thought it was, but here it is not funny to me it's sad for the poster. Unfortunately, this has led us to a situation where we are with agriculture today because neither ministers who generally have a vision of where this should be, nor have enough quality people in the ministry who could do this big job. That farmers are very little taken care of and that they are practically the last hole in a play where they rarely smoke is spoken of by our Hunting Law, where farmers are thrown into that last plan. Even so, they feed on the grain of game because every combination has a rash, so it always stays so long that the game can be fed over winter, now they will have to bear the cost of damage themselves because hunting societies no longer have to have insurance policies, they no longer have to be secured even when they go to a concession competition. So farmers will suffer great damages that will be very difficult or in no way chargeable. And in all this, even those small hunting associations will fail because some major farmers who know the process of this kind of damage will sue them over the years for having to pay compensation, and then we'll be left with only large Earls who have big hunting grounds. So, gentlemen, agriculture is in the state it is, I don't see any important moves for it to return to what we were at least in the '90s, or at least to tend to it, but to see people simply leaving Croatia, leaving rural areas, that we have a mass of empty houses that no one wants to buy anymore. And unfortunately, rural development doesn't make any sense anymore because I don't know who it's about, because nobody's gonna be in rural areas anymore. So let us all try together regardless of party diversity to come up with a quality policy to improve and save Croatian villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119813	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Tomislav Panenic, gone, lost his right to speak, he was reported on behalf of the club finally, so he lost his right to speak. Of course this and then we have the final speech of the HDZ Representative's Club of Honored Representative Ivan Šipic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, the Agriculture Act is one of the roof laws for people living for and from agriculture. The aim of this law is to unite a whole series of national laws and create a framework for the reviving and functioning of the common agricultural policy. Permanent changes and normative solutions want to create a more quality framework for better agricultural policy and a simpler approach. It is important to mention a few sentences about the law itself and to say the words of praise to the ministry and the minister for the concrete support of all the branches of agriculture because the amount paid, the advance paid out of a billion and 900 million kuna says that the minister and his associates know what to do to help thousands of our people produce and contribute to creating a new value. And as we heard in February and May 2019, the other amounts provided for through the budget will be paid. The basis of the law creates assumptions that a whole series of support is still being brought, a programme for heifers, sheep, goats and what is most important for our OPGs and farmers. The new law aims to ensure the sustainable development of agriculture, the principles of general food security and the preservation of natural agricultural resources, the improvement and increase of the competitiveness of the agricultural and food sector and the strengthening of the social, social, economic and environmental role of agriculture. Agriculture has heard a new law defined as the strategic branch of the economy in Croatia, in order to create the objectives set are defined the measures of agricultural policy and funding sources. The division of agricultural policy measures, agricultural policy is basically kept in three basic categories under the current Agricultural Act and is consistent with the division of measures within the framework of the common agricultural policy. So here we have two pillars, the first pillar refers to direct payments and measures of the common organisation of the market, and the second pillar concerns, of course, rural development. This provides for many funding measures from European funds, for the purpose of naturally agriculture and rural development. The law provides a clearer framework for strategic, strategic thinking and a unique roof approach to support from all levels, especially national support, which are often, which are often non-selectively directed from local levels. It is also predicted to be released from the excessive and unnecessary administration in the process of protecting a particular product with quality labels, for example. In this law we have a whole series of discharges from farmers, they can point out that farmers will submit their reports in the future on the sale of their own agricultural products produced on their own holding, not as it took time today, each day write reports and waste time in unnecessary administration. This topic is important for every part of the Republic of Croatia, this topic and this law is life-threatening because it can and should be the basis for opening new jobs that can be opened through the OPGs, companies and all those dealing with agriculture or will be dealt with. Finally, we can conclude, so much support, so much emphasis on Croatian agricultural product, so much clearing up all the negative trends, introducing order and positive activities of this ministry, unfortunately, overshadowing the daily flat-rate and not even a moment of debate. Therefore, respected ministers, state secretaries and associates, while here we hear everything and everything, we who are on the ground, are eager to hear among other things and to hear the news and decisions of the ministry that will cheer up many cities and municipalities and relate to rural development measures, which are the construction of new kindergartens and mangers, firehouses, etc. These are topics that interest people in the field, these are topics that are life-threatening and we believe that you will not fall for the superficial and unargumented testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119815	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Agriculture Minister Tomislav Tolusic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119816	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the other parliamentarians and MPs, I warmly welcome you once again. Here's my thanks to the chairman at the given opportunity to give my final word. I will try to stick to the subject as much as possible although unfortunately what I have to conclude without anyone being offended, those who are not present here, that a large part of those who have criticised the law, unfortunately I fear that this law has indeed not even been read, and it may actually be the biggest tragedy of this debate today, that incident we had since yesterday for the Assembly speakers, I think it is actually a bad message for the Croatian public as well as for Croatian farmers. The Agriculture Act as a redefined law of 2015, which actually speaks of the cost of incentives, of a rural development programme, and in which nothing has been radically changed in relation to the 2015 law, but I say, unfortunately, a large part of those who have discussed it, especially when we talk about the people of the opposition, the parliamentary representatives of the opposition that are here, now when it is final, unfortunately there are none. They haven't read the law we're talking about today, and I'm afraid that's the case with the vast majority of other laws, but good. What also saddens me but we can't change that, a series of flat, false allegations, really false news, false expressions that I also don't think is worthy of this Croatian Parliament, all the data exists in the Ministry of Agriculture, there are in the DZS, all available, some with some later dates, some with newer dates, 31st 10th of this year or last year, and I think it's the only data we need to discuss unfortunately, the flat-rate statements always go in some other direction. I would like that in October 2016 when I led the Ministry of Agriculture, the people who are here today with me and all those employees who have been in that ministry for many years and who have changed a lot of ministers, that I too have been welcomed by the strategy for the development of agriculture, however not. It was neither made by the previous HDZ government nor by the previous SDP government nor by the MOST minister, we will make it. Once again, we have agreed on a strategy for the development of agriculture, for the sake of the World Bank, and I hope for it a number of other prominent foreign and domestic experts, and very soon we will have a strategy that would certainly be much better if we were welcomed in the drawers of the ministry, that all things are ready and that there is no need for us to negotiate in 2018 to develop a strategy for the development of agriculture. Unfortunately, however, the situation is what it is. I don't think what the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing today in the sector is going to be visible today. I think what we're doing, doing good things, maybe the future will convince us, maybe we're doing bad things, and what one of our colleagues said, I think, Mr. Bacic, I believe that no minister thought of doing something bad for Croatian agriculture, but some of them were more or less successful in all of that. Here's to Mr. Bolt and Mr. Bull, I'm glad you're listening and that you've been here with us all day. What I would point out in all this is the fact that all the statistics that don't go into our hands are the result of some of the good or bad policies in the past as well as what's going to happen in a year or two or three is going to be the result of what we're doing today. I believe it's good, but I'm still saying it might be me, too, so maybe it'll be something bad. I would just point out a series of laws that you or a good part of you in this House in the last 2 years, which are going to change the image and perception of Croatian agriculture from the Law on Agricultural Land, from today's Law on Agriculture, the Law on the OPG, the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, which is now after this law in the second reading, the Law on Marine Fisheries, the Law on freshwater fisheries, the Law on aquaculture, the Law on unfair commercial practices, forests, the Croatian agricultural chamber, the Wine Act and a series of other laws that are not designed to reverse farmers, but to help them. I would also like to have used all the funds available to us by entering the EU in 2013 in the right way. We've opened up, we've entered a large community, we've opened the door to other countries, I agree, I'm the first against importing anything into the Republic of Croatia, and if someone's said it 500 times more than all of you here, it's definitely the Ministry of Agriculture since I've been at the head of that ministry. What we got, we got it that our farmers didn't have adequate sources of funding and raised their competitiveness, we didn't have it in 2013 or in 2014 or in 2015, we didn't call the competition. Not because someone didn't want to, so maybe he didn't know, maybe we weren't ready, but there was no contest. Last year, 500 million Euros of competitions in the Agriculture Sector, we are not talking about incentives. Somewhere around 5 700 decisions to build a new farm, build new greenhouses, new plastics, get machinery, build silos, get cattle and a bunch of other things we do. Of course, I'd be happiest today when a farmer gets a decision that his project has passed on to EU funds, wakes up in the morning, snaps his fingers and the farm is there, but it's not. And for all this to pass the period for the farmer to find sources of funding, which we also gave him, favourable loans if he needed what was needed in HABOR and HAMAG, financial instruments that weren't in the rural development programme that we changed, so we introduced that, the welfare of animals that weren't in the rural development programme, so we changed that, so we introduced it to actually help our cattle. And our farmer can't do the same thing overnight, same as not building, house or whenever one of us does something doesn't do it in one day. Of course, that doesn't justify the Ministry of Agriculture even more trying to help each segment of agriculture. If there's anything in focus, it's livestock. I'd only mention a few things our cattlemen didn't have two years ago, and they have them today. First of all, priority in the rural development program. Breaking up small, separating large, medium, but giving priority to livestock. The Law on Agricultural Land which some of you did not support, unfortunately it had previously given exactly a different situation, that a large company could come to Vrgorac or Sinj, and that it was from Suhopol or I do not know, from Požega and take the land there or vice versa. And today, the local population in Virovitica, Sinj, Vrgorac, Metković, Zabok, Trilj, here is what Mr. Šipić, the local population, and above all, cattlemen, have the advantage of assigning state agricultural land. And today, you wouldn't believe, there are foreigners who have a family agricultural economy in the Republic of Croatia. Today, foreigners start a company and they can buy private agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, so I don't see that happening that way. It can be done by a Croatian in Hungary and Croatia in Germany and Croatia in Austria and Croatia in Ireland, but it is not a big phenomenon, I hope it will not be. The Croatian farmer knows that his country is the greatest treasure he has, he is the one who decides to sell it to, it is clear that he will not sell it to anyone, and the state agricultural land does not sell it, rents it for 25 + 25 years and means, the Croatian farmer who gets state agricultural land for rent, 50 years if he is a good farmer, a good farmer, 50 years can be eaten by that state agricultural land. The Rural Development Programme today, i.e. I apologize, is here with the date 31.10.2018 of the total allotment available to us, called 85% of the allotment, agreed 56% of that amount and 28% of the money paid. I wish those percentages were much bigger. The percentage of tenders will be 100% per year. Everything that stands at our disposal next year will be announced, agreed and paid, and I expect, I said it several times from this pay phone, so you will be able to reassure me when the time comes, that by 2020 we hope or during 2020, not in 2023 until we can spend it, that we will spend all the money we have at our disposal and that the Croatian farmer or a good part of them are not competitive. What does he need to be competitive about? He needs investments in modernising his family's agricultural economy and that's what we do. Yeah, that lasts. I wish it was overnight, but unfortunately it's not. When we talk about livestock farming, it means that cattle farming is a priority in the rural development programme, and that's what happened, the Ministry of Agriculture during Minister Romic, I don't think it's a bad decision, but it hurt Croatian cattle, we decided to vaccinate all cattle even though there was no disease, caused tectonic disorder and in that segment, negotiated, from the National Budget, paid 40 million kuna to our cattle farmers for the reduction of dairy cows, for the killings of bovine animals and all that happened to us, negotiated with the European Commission, meaning, special support for the breeding of heifers that were not now available for the purchase of heifers, the competition is ready, for the purchase of cattle and all that that happened to us, negotiated with the European Commission, meaning, special support for the production of heifers, which until now there was no support for the purchase of heifers, for the purchase of cattle, for the purchase of the meats, this year'll be paid by the end, or the end of the year. 2000 heifers will arrive or have already arrived in the Republic of Croatia because of this competition and 2000 per year and 2000 in 2020. The support for the non-cow calf system, for our goats and sheep, which was not, and I hope for the shepherds, and I think it's funny that it's a positive thing, and it's something that, not everyone can be even a horse, that we understand each other, so that in any case, it's something that absolutely helps rebuild livestock, not at the rate that I would like, of course, it's not what we want, but it can't go any faster, we help all sectors, we take care of sensitive sectors, we also take care of pig farming. In the next law, gentlemen and ladies, discuss pork, the Law on the Breeding of Domestic Animals, the Pigmeat, the Sheep, the Rats, the Cows, that's the essence of that Law, and this general law that regulates the common agricultural policy is as general as it is and I don't see what's so controversial about it except that we have to be contentious about everything. Introduce, why control? Well, because we haven't controlled spending in the past few years, and that's why we have a lot of what we have, failed investments, bad business moves, probably in some segments, let's be mild, wrongly spent or wrongly spent. That's why control and the EU is giving money, but it requires that these money be controlled, we do everything we can to make it easier for the farmer, rationalization of the Agency is also going in this direction to have one address that he will still have his adviser farmer will still have that segment that takes care of livestock farming, but under one roof, in one house, I hope in one place if we talk about the County Centre, I would like it to be where it is now in 7 places in Krapina, that it is in one place and if it is in 17 places in Virovitica, that it is in one place, that it does not knock at 17 addresses in Požega, but it comes to one building, knocks and gets rid of everything, that is the intensity of all of it. State agricultural land, we've brought regulations where these really are very favourable prices for our farmers and it's hidden support, but legal. When you rent private agricultural land then you pay it 1.500,00 kn, 22.00 kn per morning, and you pay the state, our domestic local farmer from Pregrada pays it, say 700,00 kn, 600,00 kn or 500,00 kn, and that's the support to our farmer. The state could say that, let's put market prices on, I don't want to. Supports for young farmers or small farmers, all the things we do, I say again, I'm not saying that they, they might prove bad, but the point is not to destroy someone, but to bring things in the right direction and make things work properly. We are here for all the association of our farmers, we are establishing ourselves producer organisations and we need to take better care of them than we do as Ministry, it is not enough to give EUR 100,000,00 per year or over 5 years to an organization of EUR 500,000, that is perhaps death, but we need to take care of it, we will also point out that in the Ministry with special services that will take care of self-association and make sure that our farmer is more competitive on the market. I agree, the problems with freezers, there have been competitions so far, there will be special competitions only for refrigerators, such as special competitions exclusively for our cheese producers or olive oil producers, for warlords or for cattlemen. But that's where we think and we want to give it, not to an individual, so that this individual goes in the wrong direction again, but to a producer organisation, I think it's only wise, that they are the ones who will be the bearers of the ransom, hopefully further negotiations and better placement of their products. In any case, with an e card along with all the things we introduce, I hope that we will change that picture of Croatian farmers, today we have a certain situation that in some things some products are harder to place, but let's just once, please, get out of socialism. The state doesn't buy out agricultural products, and now if it's going to be a day-to-day political level, it's going to emphasize and tell stories that aren't my people's doables. So, the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't buy out carrots, not the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not parsley, not apple, it tries to create market conditions, it gives money to modernise, to be more efficient, to produce more VAT on livestock food, to seedlings, and now to fresh products. Why on fresh products? So I hope that most of the fresh products should be from the Republic of Croatia and it is support for the Croatian farmer and this tax reform, the whole reform is about the agriculture sector and you should have supported it regardless of the different policy options in all of this. If it's going to give all the results, I'm optimistic, I think it will, but maybe I will, too, so it might not happen, but it's not the point of anything we do, I'd like to see what we're holding this chair for someone else and directly helping anyone, except for the family farms that we saved from the OPG Act. Ask our cattlemen whose cows died because the bank took everything from them. It's not like that today. The law you voted for, and you didn't vote, and there are provisions where it has to stay, I don't know how long it takes for me not to bug 1,000 kunas per cow per month for the cost of feeding that animal. So if he got 100,000 kunas this month and he's got 100 cows, all that money's gonna stay in his account. There was no such thing as the adoption of the OPG Act. It's all small movements, I'm not saying they're ideal, but the point is to help the Croatian peasant. And if anyone helps him, the Ministry of Agriculture helps him. Again, if someone promotes Croatian products, do you all buy Croatian products, now everyone will nod their heads, so whoever buys foreign products in Croatia, Croatians buy them ladies and gentlemen. And we say ours is so cheap he can't, nobody's gonna buy it even when it's cheap. So why don't we buy that cheap Croatian bar. You will now buy Croatian products for Christmas and for these holidays, you will look at the labels in the store when you arrive, a good part of you does not. I work, I didn't work until I came to the Department of Agriculture. I take care, try to help the Croatian farmer, and whoever I ask in Croatia, we all buy Croatian products. So who buys imported products when everyone buys Croatian products. Whoever buys Spanish peaches instead of Croatian peaches, who buys Greek watermelon instead of Neretva, I'm not. We don't take care of ourselves, about what we do and what we say, we just push politics, and it's good enough to be within a line. Let's take our example and show it to me, and now you're all going to buy the word, it's not true. I can say that it's definitely not true about all that milk, from the bread when you come into the chain of commerce, so don't look at what you are, just look at the declaration. And we can help Croatian agriculture, we don't need tourists either. Everything Croatia produces is not enough for Croatian citizens to eat in all of it. And Croatian citizens, we as consumers buy these products in shops, but not bought by foreigners, we have to take care of ourselves, sometimes we don't. So also here at this pay phone, again, if something is wrong, I apologize in advance, the intensity of what the Ministry of Agriculture is doing is helping the Croatian farmer. We will not help lies and empty promises. So, I say publicly, the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't buy parsley, the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't buy peaches, it doesn't buy tomatoes, it creates conditions for this sector to be better, it doesn't set prices because it can't determine them. So these floscules, please don't talk about such things, because it's bad for Croatian farmers, everything else I accept every criticism, but statements that are illegal and inconclusive are bad statements. You give, you sell a false story to our own, let's not do it left and right and right and true and guilty, it's not a good story. Therefore, I all agree that the situation can and must be better, definitely statistics are not on our side, I am just inviting you and me to do this together, to fight or to fight with me that the Croatian farmer lives better and better in the Republic. And this is the only intensities of me and the Ministry of Agriculture, so far we have done nothing to damage Croatian farmers in any way. And yet I say, if we're going to sell day-to-day politics and stories, then we can talk in a different way. I think it's all wrong. In Croatia there are countless positive examples and countless farmers who live quality and well from their work. There are also those who live badly and who are in trouble, but there are those who place their product which have no problems, live excellently and live a hundred times better, and those who live badly to fix this situation. Thank you again, and thank you for supporting the law in advance, and here I am now reminded of the secretary of the assembly, and we accept the amendments of the Committee on Legislatives, and we will discuss the rest later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119817	Thank you very much, here's from a small number of MPs in the hall, almost half of them reported for replicas. Well, let's go in a row, first one will be Honorable Representative Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119818	Thank you esteemed chairman, here are the respected ministers with associates, first of all, just briefly related to the incident as you said, unfortunately the goal justifies the funds and what happened yesterday I didn't take part in but I can support it because just yesterday would have been a debate, not today as planned, so I think that's good, you see how long this debate has spread which is good, which is affirmative, and we've all been involved in it, here it's been five hours now, so it's been good, so it's so much about the incident, it didn't take him, but if we've stuck to schedules. And yet you don't have to be mad at our criticisms, I didn't criticise what I was criticizing here, I was talking about good things, not maliciously, I believe that most of our colleagues here didn't just do it to hurt you. I appreciate everything you and your fellow ministers are doing, but what I don't think is right, I'm going to criticise it. I heard myself, this is my third convocation, ministers and ministers who have spoken well and have not done well. So take this as a stimulant to do even better. and even better, not as a real criticism. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119819	Thank you. The next is a replica of the esteemed representative Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119820	Thank you very much. Well, first I haven't got a written answer yet, so I haven't even visited the ministry, so now I'm asking when I'm going to get that written answer. I'm also interested in the fact that it's with Agrokor's company land, or that it's with the rural development of these Agrokor companies that have raised several hundred million kunas for it. And the third question is that about some first question that last time was about how cattle are progressing in a company that deals with the production and sale of nails, which, with your blessing, got a green light for 7.5 million kuna incentives for phantom cattle based on untrue data. That's the three questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119821	The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119822	Mr. Ronko, I invite you to report all potential illegalities to the State's Attorney's office freely. No one got the money from the Ministry of Agriculture in my term, nor will they get it until he does what he applied for. ... Well, I know what you said, I know what you're insinuating. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So someone who gets the money in the contest or who gets the decision has to make that farm, greenhouse, plastic, permanent cash return, and then gets the money back, if the payment agency's control determines that what he did, that it's really with that plan, building permits and all the other things he suggested. Someone here asked about the Trpinja, now I forgot, from the MPs, in the Municipality of Trpinj, I expect that the land that is free will be divided primarily for farmers from the municipality of Trpinj and no one else. As for Agrokor's land, Agrokor's land, what Agrokor has in his long lease, he will have until his lease expires, when his lease expires, according to this Act, which you have not voted for, family farms should have the advantage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119823	Thank you. Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119824	Thank you very much. Minister, it's a good thing in this debate that we can ask you and the fact that you said, you did not help your opposition with your legal initiatives, your proposals, no, we did not, on the tax, give you the proposal, in accordance with the Law on dry meat products where you burn the Slavonic tower, get smaller taxes, Slavonic sausage, Baranja coolen, Dalmatian prosciutto, drjski prosciutto, karsci prosciutto, and other numerous other products, however, it is not accepted, so these are our indigenous products that are also protected. And I can't accept one thing, no matter what you say we have bigger and bigger imports, and the increase in tourism, the number of tourists, it's incomprehensible to me, the increasing subsidies, it's incomprehensible to me. I can't understand that we're just passing, and this law is just harmonising with European regulations and legislation, it's a tributary statement, we haven't sided with peasants, and that's a key problem, and that's visible from these three things that I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119825	Thank you. Thank you. The answer of the esteemed, no answer, good. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119826	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. You've made one logical mistake in your presentation. You said yesterday's opposition action was inappropriate, it was not necessary, and then you praised your Law and said that it would probably save Croatian agriculture, so did you not feel better then and in some way for us, for you better, that this Law be in the public's focus, that you be in the public interest, that you be on this, we actually did you a favor by doing it, I don't see why you were against this action.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119827	The next replicas of the respected representative, Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119828	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. So, normally I always appreciate it and stress it when the minister comes to defend his law, and you've used a lot of things in your presentation to point out the fact that there's a little of us in the Parliament, and we always hear those who are in the Parliament, but also your work, and our work, someone will evaluate in the elections, and the way we said so let the citizens judge us. The MPs speak of the work of the minister, Minister, here you have somehow given yourself to talk about our work, as much as anyone reads, as far as I understand, as far as it goes together, I must admit that in your presentation you have also talked about agricultural land, which is not the subject of this Law, but you have said something that is the subject of this Law. You mentioned the strategy. You said it was neither the former HDZ government nor the coalition government, nor the government where MOST was, that you would bring where the Strategy is, what state it is, and when you really think it could see the light of day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119829	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119830	The strategy is in the works, I think the Treaty is signed on 11 October, don't hold me exactly for the date, and we expect, we work on a daily basis with the World Grandma and the other consultants who prepare it, with experts from the agriculture area from Croatia, and from other European countries, and hopefully within a few months, the Strategy will be over, now the exact date, what is in the Treaty can send it to you, now I don't know exactly in my head. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119831	The next replica of the respected representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I won't look back much, I'll just say things change. Each of us knows here or should know, the law creates an assumption of a better agricultural policy, creates conditions, opens the way, we heard it from you. Your open approach to everything that has improved, which would improve through this ministry is for every commendation, because in this final presentation you do not knowingly idealize the whole situation, but you approach realistically, responsibly and thoroughly. If we know that they are making payments through all the support and in billions, how can someone today say that everything is so black, and this law should, is having even more debates, thorough debates, but unfortunately they are lagging behind from the opposition, dealing with it on a flat and superficial basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119833	Thank you very much. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure? Dear Representative Bulj, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119834	Comrade Šipić, Article 238, where he said he was lying, that we were superficial. We just made it possible for the minister to come here and we were protecting the minister, and your speech wouldn't be ashamed of Mao Ce-tung, as much as it is, with so many praises, obviously we don't live in the same neighborhood as you and me and you, my colleague Šipic. I think there has been a serious debate here about a law that is only harmonising with European legislation by colleagues Šipic. You can't do this, I'm sorry you didn't accept all of this from the tax reform,... The prosciutto. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119835	Thank you. You're out of time. Of course it wasn't a breach of the rules of procedure. My colleague Grmoy has also raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I hope there will be a breach of the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119836	It's a clear violation of the Rules of Procedure, which means he's been injured. 238. Kola Šipic did not speak at all to Minister Tolusic, who he must have given the replica, could have been praised by the law, which was his task, but looked back at the fact that there was no discussion of the opposition. Where'd she go? So were you present, I now wanted the replica of Minister Tolusic, but I couldn't, because you changed the rules of procedure and I have the right to only 3 replicas. Calm down, colleague Šipić, there is no reason to be angry, but there is also no reason for any praise, because people have a hard time living, our agriculture is in a difficult situation, you have to become aware of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119837	Thank you very much. I estimate there's been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore conclude a debate on this subject and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119838	Final proposal of the Agriculture Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 416. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislatives Committee, the MOST Representatives' Club of Independent Lists and MP Ivan Lovrinovic. During the debate, the proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I'd like to ask the proposer's representative to show up on the other amendments. With us is the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Tugomir Majdak. Let's go in turn, Secretary of State. First is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119839	Thank you. The amendment is not accepted. The Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and Regulation No. 1307 of the 2013 European Parliament and of the Council laying down rules for direct payments to farmers is prescribed that the Republic of Croatia may complement a direct payment of up to 100% of the envelope. The intensity of the proposal is the payment of direct payments at the maximum possible amount, as well as in the framework of fiscal discipline on the possibility of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119840	Since there is none of the representatives of MOST, we must vote on this amendment that the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We are now going to two amendments submitted by MP Ivan Lovrinovic. Amendment No. One, please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119841	The amendment is not accepted. The final proposal of the Agriculture Act sets out the objectives and measures of the agricultural policy for the common agricultural policy programming period from 2014 to 2020. The draft law indicates that most of the items of the proposed amendment have already been taken into account in the context of the development of a new Agriculture Strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119842	Let us vote on this amendment since there is no representative Ivan Lovrinovic here. The government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed, so we're going to go to the second amendment of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119843	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture cannot impose on state support providers the obligation that once they get a positive opinion they must pay support to farmers as state aid providers provide State resources for the implementation of state needs in their budget. The position of the applicant is that the proposed amendment is contrary to the concept of the article in question, which regulates the rules on state support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-12-05-0.u119844	Let us vote and this amendment is not accepted by the Government. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. We now have a vote on the final proposal for the Agriculture Act. I stress that Article 252 is in line. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of this law require a semi-half majority of all MPs. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 77 votes for and 2 abstentions have been passed the Agriculture Act.
