ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101837	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is a desirable and recognizable tourist destination because we are a safe country in relation to the environment, but also because of natural beauty and preserved environment. The fact is that the coast is the bearer of Croatian tourism, both in the total tourism transport and in the achievement of income. The beauty of our coastal towns is visible in the pytorescu old town's cores, preserved coast from apartmentisation and concreteisation, but also behind these places. Just for reasons to continue to preserve natural beauty and the environment for which we are recognizable, I appeared today on behalf of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, to point again to the burning problem of illegal construction. Neither after the legalisation nor after the extension of the legalisation deadlines were able to stop the illegal construction, it continues and especially in the coastal area. It is illegally built beyond the boundaries of building land, illegally built on agricultural land, illegally built on high-value land, the result is that space is destroyed and it is permanently destroyed, nature is destroyed, and it is permanently destroyed, high value land is destroyed, and it is permanently destroyed. And to make things worse, we come to an incredible situation, a situation of absurdity, which results in farmers calling themselves farmers, those who live out of the country and who process the country, and because they become a distraction. Who? Owners who illegally build beyond the borders of building land, who build on agricultural land and who rent their illegally built buildings to tourists. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, and it is our duty to protect the public and general well from lawless builders, and it is our responsibility to do everything possible for Croatia to be a desirable and recognizable tourist destination in the future. Since state bodies have not proven effective in preventing illegal construction, the solution is that the sanctions of sanctioning illegal construction are left to the local community, because the problem of illegal construction needs to be addressed spotlessly, at the very beginning and where it arises. If cities bring space-planned documentation, if cities define building conditions, if cities issue building permits, then by the logic of things, cities should also be allowed mechanisms and tools to sanction illegal construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101838	Now according to article. 249 is the time to present the position of the Club of Representatives. The first is, on behalf of the IDS-PGS-RI club, a colleague of Giovanni Sponza, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101839	Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and respected colleagues. I answered on behalf of the club on the subject of avoiding the so-called. the Russian script on the possible tightening of the visa regime for British guests, and on the occasion of Brexit. Namely, withdrawn by negative experience when visas for Russians were announced several years ago, then the tourism sector's profession proposed a series of active measures such as financing the Portuguese representation, all to make visas easier and faster, and thus facilitate and reduce the procedure. But it was nothing. We lost a large number of Russian guests, and then we were forced to look for a replacement in the British and focus on that market. With the aim of avoiding, I suggest, the potential scenario that has hit us since we joined the EU, which has led to the implementation of the visa regime towards the Russian guests, is to do everything in power in the government, to develop all potential scenarios to avoid repeating the same negative scenario. The scenario that the Russians then had as a consequence with quite concrete and financial negative effects on our tourism, and thus on our economy. That's why, first of all, to show that we've learned a lesson, I want to draw attention now in time to a possible problem that can happen again. If the Treaty on Brexit with the EU is concluded and signed, then we should not have a problem on this subject. However, unless the Agreement is signed, then we will have a very serious problem with very serious negative financial effects for the economy, and therefore on Croatian tourism. In order to avoid a potential scenario, we propose several options to mitigate the potential problem. The best option would be to quickly and efficiently issue visas by electronic means or the possibility of obtaining a tourist visa when landing at airports in the Republic of Croatia or to plan in time to open active visa centres that will be able to serve the most significant broadcasting destinations from the United Kingdom to the Republic of Croatia. For example, if I'm not mistaken, we currently have 18 such visa centres in Russia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will repeat and point out that it would not be good if, I point out, if the visa regime for British guests is strengthened, that in another, we must again seek a replacement for the British. Pula Airport, according to statistics, comes to Pula Airport 32% of the British. However, for the region of Dalmatia, Dubrovnik Airport, Split, Zadar, the percentage is even more pronounced. So colleagues and colleagues, let's work out potential scenarios, don't let them catch us because we will have very big consequences for the Croatian economy and therefore for tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101840	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101841	Now, based on Article 249 and if respected colleagues and colleagues don't mind me breaking my Rules of Procedure a little bit, since it's a minute until 13 o'clock and the Rules of Procedure are scheduled from 13 o'clock to the club position, if no one minds, so they don't report me afterwards so that I get hurt, you'll defend me all? Thank you very much. Here we are then moving to deliver the position of representatives' clubs and independent representatives, the first to present a position has been reported by a respected colleague, Giovanni Sponza, on behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI Club. Here's your colleague, Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101842	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. On 16 November this year, the deadline for the submissions of projects to the competition under the rural development programme was 7.2.1, which allows investment in the construction of public water supply systems, disposal and waste water treatment. This is primarily for small and undeveloped local communities to make significant funding and talk about millions of amounts, finance important projects for their community, with a 100% share of the funding from European funds. From this tender I believe, many cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia expect so much from local communities in Istria. In addition to the project and any other necessary documentation to be prepared for legal application, one of the mandatory documents to be attached was the opinion on the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment issued by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Thus, as the applicant for the tender, the Istrian Voda Company sent a request for the above opinion, which was received in the ministry on 11 October this year. A response from the ministry that is almost formal for 14 projects in Istria County that should significantly improve the water infrastructure of the interior of Istria comes after 35 days. Exactly 16 November at 11.47 minutes via e-mail or more specifically, 13 minutes of closing competition. I repeat, the answer comes after 35 days and exactly and exactly 13 minutes before closing the competition, now let someone explain to me how objective it is and how realistically it is possible in these 13 minutes to report 14 projects and again with complete documentation, all the necessary opinions, which have been waiting for more than a month. I find it hard to believe that the Ministry of Environment and Energy took more than a month for almost a formal response to this request, which practically prevented the application for these 14 projects. I don't know, that's why I'm asking the ministry if it took as much time to deliver an opinion on candidate projects from other areas in the Republic of Croatia or whether different rules have been re-applyed according to the Istrian projects and already at the beginning makes it impossible to compete equally for EU funds. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, we should all be drawn to as many EU funds as possible, especially for all those projects that are 100% funded from EU funds. State bodies should treat everyone in the same way and what I want to point out in the end, this is not the first time that projects coming from the Istria area are being punished and the time has come to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101843	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponzi.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101844	We're going to six debates now, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101845	... President, first of all, I welcome my colleagues and fellow representatives, the students of the Faculty of Economics at the gallery and all the citizens of Croatia who listen to us. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] On behalf of the party Let's change Croatia today I want to give strong support to all public service employees who have been struggling to raise 5.8% of their salaries for the past weeks, and the government agrees only to 3%. I want to show here because the Change Party Croatia is an opposition party, a serious party that has a lot of experts from which items can increase wages 5.8% and that money exists in the budget. But let's say before it's a public service employee, it means high school teachers, teachers, it's health institutions, social care, it's an area of culture, it's about 250,000 workers. Now you see they're looking for a 5.8% increase that's about a billion 700 million kuna, the government says you can't win, we can only give 900 million kuna. But, gentlemen, no one here is asking, why does this government pay 10 billion kunas to banks and pension funds, fund managers only for interest on government debts, and only 5 billion kunas should be paid? You see these are real opposition issues that are a real struggle for the interests of workers, not the interests of capital. So to answer immediately, this government doesn't have the courage to deny bankers and fund managers the expected profits and double profits on the interest they don't have. But on the other hand, he's been able for months, fighting unions and workers for weeks to increase their salary by a billion and 700 million kuna. So, if the refinance of the interest item is carried out on loans and bonds that have been past governments, in recent years it has meant borrowing all of us, and they have been in debt at an average interest rate of 6%, if the overall funding is carried out at more favourable interest rates at a maximum of 2 to 3% can be saved at 5 to 5 billion kuna, and out of these 5 billion kuna, then without problems, public service workers can be paid an increase of 700 and there are around 3 billion kuna left. Of these 3 billion kunas, a billion of them can certainly be paid to pensioners to increase pensions, investments in science and education, innovation, new technologies can be increased, however, this government does not want to hear. And therefore, respected workers who fight for their rights, your salaries have been reduced by 17% from 2008 to 2017, you are victims as well as pensioners, the biggest victims of the process of transformation of development, so-called. all over the back of workers and pensioners. Therefore, you fight to the end because I explained to you that the money in the budget for the increase, for the payoff of your salaries exists, but it's a political issue, so the money has. Which is a political issue, so it's a matter of the political will of the ruling current coalition whether it wants to pay you the wages it deserves, increase or still wants to put in the pockets of the bank's pockets and trust fund managers. The answer is clear, respected citizens, she wants this second, she doesn't have the courage to tell banks and financial institutions enough, so you see that we're having a hard time living. If we pay you 5 billion kuna interest, that's already very good, much more than in other countries in the environment because interest rates are low everywhere. But she's easy to get her hands into our pockets, and she's bolder and more and more because she's always asking us to increase or pay for wastefulness, she's missing the past period. And that's why the party will change Croatia, we won't get tired of protecting those most vulnerable, so workers, pensioners and this budget that we're going to discuss today must be much more just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101846	Let's go to the third debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101847	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, and respected citizens. I want to talk about the situation in Uljannik and 3. Maya. At the time of the Advent and the New Year's coming, the question arises as to how this period of hope is passed by workers employed in these two shipyards? The government's behaviour over the past few months on the Oilies and the 3rd. Maya, it says they create a prerequisite for these two shipyards to go bankrupt. What makes it possible to conclude that? Well, just by the government's own behavior. How are they acting? Uninterested, they send messages to the administration and the public. The management is sending a message to find a strategic partner, and they're sending a message to the public, and there's been a lot of waste of budget money in the shipyards. If a man did not further analyse the situation in Croatia's shipbuilding, then indeed everyone would say that there is a lot of this waste of budget taxpayers' money in shipbuilding. However, the party Change Croatia has repeatedly warned that it must present itself to this Parliament and to the public every kuna that has been spent over the past years in, which has been intended for shipbuilding, all shipyards. What else can we say in this sense? You see, it's inadmissible that the state or government behaves this way, and it has 25% of the shares there. We remember that session of the congregation when the government acted as if it were a third - grade company or that there were no shares in it. It is embarrassing and sends a strong message to workers, as well as to Croatian citizens. I want to mention to you a personal experience, about three months ago I received an e-mail from a potential German investor, who tells me that, who wrote to me that about a year ago he contacted the government, whether the Ministry of Economy or the Prime Minister himself, and asked for a meeting, offered assistance or was interested in the shipbuilding sites to produce certain parts of renewable energy sources and auto-industry, and certainly certain, certain shipyards must be reorganized in this direction, or some of their parts. No one has ever been invited, followed what is happening, in which direction this whole story is taking place, and finally he wrote that it is not possible to hijack the impression that the fate of these two shipyards is already decided and that the government is not the goal of the shipbuilding sites at all but that it is primarily real-estate business and we see it going in that direction. So let us look at what the government is doing today, what it is doing. You see, there's been a settlement in the Agrokor case, almost one day, that the Minister of Economy or someone from the government doesn't give a message and a recommendation that everything needs to be done in Agrokor. Agrokor was and remained a private company. Why doesn't one part of the energy, at least one part of the energy, go to the oil and the 3rd of May. We remember the potential monetization of highways and other projects where 30-50 million kn were paid, who knows how much, why so far he has not invested in a real expert team, consultants of top-notch, to create a final project of restructuring of Croatian shipbuilding, not just the Uljani, not only 3 May, but all Croatian shipyards. It's not there. Therefore, it can be concluded that this government does not care for shipyards to survive. She's formally pushing for it, and she's actually doing nothing in that direction. In this context, I call, while the last minute, the government, to trade to make state decisions, to access strong and accelerated restructuring, is clear that not all shipyards can survive in this way, they must indeed be generally restructured, merged, resolved by certain small segments, introduced new production programmes etc. etc. But you can't just leave it to workers who don't even have enough knowledge, there's no money and other factors of production. Therefore, it is necessary to launch a strong action and the name of the party We change Croatia and we are asking all citizens to be determined to save Croatia's shipbuilding, not just through simple speech. The case of petrochemicals, it is evident that this was an intolerable ease of privatization and petrochemicals, may account for at least 10% of such efforts as in the case of Petrochemy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u101848	Thank you. And now we're moving on to our agenda. Dear MPs and legislators on the basis of 247, I propose that we bring together the debate on the following two points: - The proposal for the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the Project for 2020 and 2021, proposals for financial plans outside of the budget users for 2019 and projections of plans for 2020 and 2021, with an explanation for Croatian Water, Croatian Roads, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks and the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, and secondly - Final Proposal for the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019, II. Reading, PZ number 498. Are we in agreement with that proposal? If we did, I'm grateful, so we can get going. Otherwise, 11 clubs and 31 individual debates have already been reported. The first item is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 85 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 37 of the Budget Act and Article 211 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the second points on the basis of 85, the Constitution and Article 211 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Government submitted amendments to the proposal for a State Budget to become an integral part of the State Budget proposal under Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure. When adopting a state budget, the provisions of Articles 211 and 212 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall apply, the amendments may be proud until the end of the debate, in accordance with Rule 197, of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Environmental and Nature Protection, for the Economy, for Finance and the State Budget, for Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, for Internal Policy and National Security, for Defence, for Labour, Pension System and Social, for Space and Civil Engineering, for War Veterans, for Family, Youth and Sports, for Justice, for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, for Education, Science and Culture, for Health and Social Policy, for Agriculture, for Regional Development and Funds of the European Union and for Human Rights and Rights Committee for National Minorities. I would like to remind you of Article 38 of the Budget Act, under which all amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted deficit in the state budget and projections. In the course of the debate on the State Budget Proposal and projections, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure and expenditure, above the amounts set out in the State Budget and projections, may be adopted provided that a reduction of other expenditure and expenditure is proposed at the same time in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. With this in mind, I warn that only those amendments drawn up under the Budget Law will be referred to the parliamentary procedure. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure set out that amendments and the budget tabled cannot be voted upon before three days of the day of the debate, so I now announce that the amendments will be discussed on Friday and we will vote on the budget and on the amendments Monday, December 03rd. I would now ask the Prime Minister to further explain the proposal for a state budget, as far as I am informed with the president, he will speak in the second part and the finance minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106270	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. The proposal for a national budget for 2019, as well as the 2020 and 2021 projections, is a strategic act of the state which is the basis for achieving the objectives of the Government programme, and determines how we manage state resources. The draft budget in front of you reflects a clear government policy based on sustainable and consolidated public finances aimed at strengthening social cohesion and fostering the economy. In doing so, we need to manage as best as possible the resources available with a reduction in public debt i.e. the accumulated debt of the state, county, cities, municipalities and public enterprises that burden households and the economy. That is why this draft budget is based on real foundations, it is socially sensitive, it is turned towards development and is aimed at further tax discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs. It is socially sensitive because we give more for pensions, for demographic renewal, for children's allowances, maternity and parental benefits, for persons with disabilities, for our Croatian defenders, for subsidized housing loans for young people, and for public and civil servants. It is facing the development and further discharge of citizens and entrepreneurs as we continue to reduce tax burden while at the same time significantly increasing employment, health care and hospital equipment, agriculture, science and education, as well as infrastructure projects and capital investments. This proposal therefore provides the necessary means for the effective operation of public services, if and for the achievement of all economic, demographic and social policies, in accordance with our programme. Our economic policy has a clear objective, to enable Croatia to get closer to the standard of the most developed Member States of the European Union and to catch up with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe as soon as possible, which are benefiting from membership in the Union for almost 15 years, and thus making faster growth happen today. After a deep recession in which the Croatian economy fell in 2008, it has been recovering for several years. This trend has accelerated, over the past two years, during which we have solidified growth and turned a number of macroeconomic indicators, which are now positive. In the medium term, we expect to continue these positive movements in our economy, as well as real GDP growth of 2.9%, which is an assessment on which the draft budget is based. In addition to the fact that these estimates are realistic, the Commission also predicted our growth at 2.8%. A favourable macroeconomic movement enables a moderate increase in expenditure compared to income, in order to exploit all the redistributive power of the state budget for further economic recovery and continue to increase the standards of our citizens. The growth of the Croatian economy also contributes significantly to the record tourist year, which will certainly be better than last year's results, and in terms of arrival and overnight stays, ultimately and income. We expect low and stable inflation, as well as a continued reduction in the unemployment rate. Ladies and gentlemen, employment in the Republic of Croatia is growing. In the first half of the number of employees this year, the number of employees increased by 3.4% according to the Labour Force Survey, and the Republic of Croatia recorded one of the highest increases in the employment rate in the EU. At 56.8% at the beginning of the term of office, we have reached an estimated employment rate of this quarter, to 63%, and we are going to try to increase that rate to the end. The economic growth we are experiencing today is much healthier than before the crisis period. At that time, growth from 4 to 5% was primarily based on the growth of domestic demand, financed by increasing foreign debt that reached up to 10% of GDP annually. Today, however, we are growing from about 3%, while at the same time reducing public debt from 2% to 3% per year. Today, our growth is stronger and more balanced and is based mostly on the export of goods and services while reducing external imbalances. This is what we are doing through the Government programme, through meeting the objectives of the National Reform Programme in the context of the European Semester, as well as through the Convergence Programme. In order to make our economic growth stable and sustainable and further reduce macroeconomic imbalances, it is necessary to ensure continued employment and the creation of a framework for new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, a huge deficit of even 17 billion kunas four years ago has been a weight for our economy that has dragged us to the bottom. We inherited a galloping public debt that reached 84% in 2015, while at the same time the Republic of Croatia paid nearly 12 billion kuna interest, which was then equal to the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education. Therefore, among our top priorities is fiscal sustainability and rational use of public money, a prerequisite, that is, for macroeconomic stability and economic growth. How successful we have been in repairing the state of public finances, it says that last year we have achieved a surplus of the general government, first in the last 15 years, at an amount of 3.2 billion kuna or 0.9% of GDP, according to the statistical rules of the European Statistical Office. It simply means that the Republic of Croatia does not spend more than it does for the first time. In the first six months of this year, the general budget was in surplus for 1.6 billion kuna. That's what we were talking about at a government meeting in Pula in early September. And this trend would continue if we were not to be charged with the protested guarantees of the group's former government group, and they were especially from mid-2014 until the end of 2015. Nevertheless, thanks to the savings I have requested from all the resistors, wherever possible, I hope that by the end of the year this year the budget will be close to balance. Next year we predict a deficit of 0.4% of GDP or 1.7 billion kuna. But we will try, as we did this year, and last year, to achieve a better result than planned. So we want to make less promises and more promises. In our 2020 projections, we are forecasting a general government deficit of 0.3, while we are planning a surplus of 0.3% of GDP for 2021. At the same time, we expect a further reduction in the share of public debt in GDP to 71.6% in 2019, 60.8% in 2020 and at last 65.6% in 2021, which strengthens fiscal sustainability and permanently reduces the burden of debt. The trend which today reduces public debt, the Republic of Croatia ranks among the countries with the largest annual decline in the share of public debt in GDP. Moreover, the rate by which we reduce it is triple the rate prescribed for countries whose public debt exceeds 60%. So we are already meeting the final convergence criteria for the future introduction of the EUR. All this shows that thanks to the responsible management of public money and smart tax reform which has increased the income of the population and disbursed the economy, the Republic of Croatia is today making a decisive step through fiscal consolidation with a balanced budget. In the context of the European Semester, after we came out of the excessive budget deficit procedure last year, our goal now is to continue reforms, as soon as possible, from the process of excessive macroeconomic imbalances. The achievements achieved in the area of public finances have also been recognised by the leading World Credit Rating Agency, which have improved Croatian credit ratings, and have also raised the outlook from stable to positive. With the continued implementation of structural reforms, I am convinced that we will improve our rating by another level and thus reach an investment level. With the reform we have implemented since January 2017, we have reduced taxes to citizens and entrepreneurs, simplified the tax system that is more stable today, fairer and predictable. Due to tax reform, almost 70% and 1.5 million taxpayers of income tax are outside the range of tax scissors. The reduction in the profit tax rate from 20 to 18 and to 12 for small and medium-sized enterprises in practice led 85% of entrepreneurs to pay the lowest rate. All of this has helped to continue to increase personal consumption, employment and investment. The focus of the new tax discharge cycle is on our citizens, so we want not only to reduce their tax benefits but also to improve the quality of living standards, especially nutrition and health. Since the new year, the most significant new measures to further relieve citizens are the halve of VAT rates for fresh meat, fresh fish, eggs, fruits of vegetables, live animals and baby diapers and, as you have seen, the last round of tax reform reduces VAT to 5% for non-receptive medicines. In addition, as of December 1st, we are increasing the amount of untaxable income from 2500 to 7500 kuna, which was a long-standing desire and employers, i.e. business community. According to the latest calculation, the tax discharge has so far been 3.6 billion kuna, in the third round of tax reform it will be an additional 2.8 billion kuna, and this will mean a total of 6.5 billion kuna in the term of our government's disbursement. This makes it easier for our entrepreneurs to create new jobs that our citizens expect from us and, with the aim of reducing value added tax, we increase the purchasing power of our citizens above all those with the lowest incomes which we want to reduce inequalities in our society. A few words about the revenue side of the budget. The total revenues of the State budget in 2019 are also estimated to be EUR 136.1 billion. The future side of the budget is based on further growth in economic activity, taking into account the effects and tax reform and further tax redundancies. The most important sources of income for the state budget remain VAT, then contributions to pension insurance, excise duties and profit tax. We also expect a better use of European funds whose resources will be channelled towards various social, development and infrastructure projects as well as innovation research. This year, we published as much as 2.5 billion euros worth of tenders, bringing the total amount of tenders published to 8.1 billion euros, which is 76% of the total amount of funds allocated in this financial perspective in the '14th-20th. In only the first 10 months of this year, Croatia has agreed 2.5 billion euros and the total amount of the contracted funds has increased to 60% and 6.3 billion euros respectively. As for the expenditure side of the budget of $140.3 billion. First of all, I want to say that this budget is solid, it's solid because it reflects the government's orientation of proper care for all layers of the population. We do not want a social fracture, we want social cohesion in Croatian society. We therefore help to improve the material conditions of pensioners, families and young people, as well as to improve health and education benefits. This is precisely why 49.9 billion kuna and 35% of the state budget are provided for compensation for citizens and households. As a result of the indexation and expected inflow of new pensioners, such increases were planned. This year, more than 1.2 million pensioners received 3.7% higher pensions, which is in line with our current economic opportunities and the largest harmonisation of pensions since 2008. And since the beginning of the term of office, I repeat, we have raised our pensions by 6.4% which is more than 5% promised in our election programme. It shall pay particular attention to the measures taken by demographic renewal, including measures to implement family and population policies for which a total of 468 million kuna is foreseen more than in 2018. We raise an increase of 337 million kunas to a billion and 700 million kunas, the funds provided for child support due to the expansion of the number of users. And an additional 131 million kuna is provided for additional maternity leave fees, baby equipment, as well as subsidisation of housing loans. This last measure proved particularly successful, which led to an increase of €38 million. We thus doubled the funds for subsidising housing loans for young families, which were totalled in this year and last year by 5200, helping them solve the housing issue, the rest and the establishment of a family in Croatia. We are building a modern and financially sustainable health system. In addition to amending the Law on Contributions, we will abolish the rate of labour injury contributions of 0.5% at the same time increase the rate of contribution for compulsory health insurance from 15 to 16.5%. This will lead to an additional 1.3 billion kuna compared to 2018, which will increase revenue from the contributions that now account for 80% of the total income of HZZO. We continue to increase funds for the Fund for Special Expensive Medicines and, in addition, by increasing the resources of HZZO, we allow financial difficulties to be overcome by hospital health institutions. In Croatia, esteemed MPs and MPs, there are as many as half a million people with disabilities. The allocations for social care rights that include the allocations for the personal disability and the allowance for assistance and care increase by 107 million kuna to a total of 924 million kuna. The government for the first time since 2008 has implemented a correction and an increase in the pay base of public and civil servants by 6%. You remember the agreement with the representatives of the unions 2 + 2 + 2, and for the following year we have already predicted a 3% increase from 1 January, and I can inform you that an agreement has been reached during the morning with representatives of the union for an additional 2% increase since 1 September with salary payments in October, which is in line with economic opportunities and what this government will succeed in realising under the existing budget. This should be added that in our mandate we pay Christmases and regressions and all other material rights with which we will continue next year. This year's salary increases for teachers, teachers, doctors, nurses, police officers and other public and civil servants are also reflected in the budget for next year. In particular, the 2019 budget plans to increase expenditure on employees of €1 billion and €100 million and above all for the application of collective agreements for civil servants and tenants and for public services. The most responsible for the defence and freedom of Croatia, Croatian defenders as well as members of their families, we provide adequate care and dignity for which we have foreseen an additional 231 million kuna. This budget is developed because it creates a favourable environment for entrepreneurship, job creation and the implementation of development projects across the country. In doing so, we worry about complementing the state budget, European funds and other sources of funding in order to achieve the full development potential of the Croatian economy. We want to create additional value for the economy, new jobs, new business initiatives and new local development projects with each invested kuna that is planned and included in the draft of this budget. We are running an active employment policy involving 63,000 people over the past two years and providing more than 4.5 billion kuna for employment, especially young people, as well as education and training for the unemployed. The budget item of the 7 billion kuna subsidy increased by 467 million kuna, the most significant amount of subsidies, and that is 3.2 billion kuna, to direct payments in agriculture and measures to regulate the agricultural market, which is an increase of 100 million kuna. Since we have more than 160,000 family agricultural holdings for rural development measures, the amount is estimated to be billions and 800 million kuna, which will provide financial support for the development of the Croatian village. Additional resources are provided for a more effective system of science and education of 310 million kunas as an additional incentive to implement educational reform, to train and teacher training and to finance higher education and science. In the expenditures for the purchase of non-financial assets, we will allocate 5.4 billion kuna, which is an increase of 1.3 billion kuna in total, for example, to continue the construction of KBC Rijeka, for the reconstruction of courts buildings, the purchase of educational reform equipment, the acquisition of multi-purpose combat aircraft, the organisation of the National and University Library in Zagreb, and for the purpose of preparing the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which we are taking over 2020. We have also provided €200 million for the Fund for the co-financing of European projects so that counties, cities and municipalities can realise sustainable local development projects that are applying for funding from European funds. A few words in conclusion before the Minister of Finance takes his word. The needs of our citizens will continue to be at the heart of the government's efforts, and the budget reflects the priorities of both citizens and economies and goes in line with our programme. It is in the role of the transformation triangle, fiscal consolidation, implementation of structural reforms and attracting investments. In other words, we must work better, invest more, and manage our resources more wisely. I now ask Minister Marić to say more about the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget for 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106271	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow government members in this remaining time in the short lines, more about the budget itself, that it is easier for both you and the representatives of our professional public, today we have students from our fellow fiscal policy from the Faculty of Economics, so they will certainly be able to say and reflect more on this budget. So, you've heard the revenue of the foreign budget from the Prime Minister, $13.1 billion of which is the highest income from the state budget of the tax on added value of $111.5 billion. After that, the most significant item of the contribution is planned for 2019 only a contribution to pension insurance under the tax, third round of tax charge that was just voted in the Croatian Parliament a few days ago. You know that two practical contributions have been abolished so, among other things, a contribution to employment and labour injuries. The total amount for this year, for next year's contribution to the pension of €24.1 billion, as regards specific taxes and excise taxes 15.7 billion, and the profit tax of €8.8 billion, the aid most of which is financed by European funds or the largest part of the waste on the European funds of €17.5 billion. As regards the expenditure side of the state budget, it is planned in the amount, totalling €14.3 billion, which is 6.9 billion more than the 2018 budget plan, with a single distinction to be made, so in these 6.9 billion increases 2.8, the budget increase is related to the so-called budget. General sources and receipts can therefore say what affects the overall result. So we can say what affects the overall result, these are taxes, contributions and all of those items of income that we traditionally collect from which there is no specific purpose for which they are spent. On the other hand, the remaining 4.1 billion kn applies, first of all, to their own dedicated incomes, i.e., to the most part to European funds. As regards individual items, expenditure on employees of €29.1 billion, already mentioned, therefore, correction of the basis of 1.1% and the same rights that we negotiated, negotiated with social partners, representatives of trade unions, state and public services regarding certain provisions of collective agreements, and, of course, we have a certain item, which is related to the presidency of the EU Council, which, despite its beginning in the first half of 2020, is already in the first half of 2020. The material expenditures of €14.4 billion, most of which refers, of course, to this part of which is being co-financed, i.e. by European funds. Here we must mention one methodological difference, therefore, within the Ministry of Science and Education, related to programme funding, amounting to 325.6 million kn, according to this new classification, they fall into material expenditures. As far as financial expenditures are concerned, it is a subject, which I am always very happy to talk about in the Croatian Parliament and the public, so I will repeat once again that in 2.5 years we have practically reduced the cost of financing interest expenditure by more than 2 billion kn. With this trend and this direction we want to continue, surely, that the results of fiscal policy and the improvement of credit ratings, but also the general situation in world and domestic, financial markets, give us a reason not only to believe, but of course to have additional positive results in this field. As far as subsidies are concerned, they are planned to amount to 7 billion kn. The most significant amount of subsidies, relating to direct payments in agriculture, aiding 17 billion kn, most of which refers to the transfer of HZZO you know well that HZZO, for several years, has not been in the state treasury or, on the other hand, the extra budget user, on the other hand, is paying our contribution to the EU budget, for the next year, the total funds are planned at 3.7 billion kn. As for the remuneration of citizens and households, individually, the most significant items of the expenditure side of the budget of €48.9 billion, perhaps the simplest to remember for the next year's pensions and pension incomes of €40 billion, is a round figure. Most of the increase of these 1.2 billion refers to indexation, for the following g. indexation accounts of around 2.54% for the whole year but also to the measures from this year's transfer of certain corrections, which occurred as well as the inflow of new pensioners. Payments for children EUR 1.7 billion, rights from the welfare system, which includes, among other things, the disbursement for personal disability and the allowance for assistance and care of 924 million kn of the housing credit subsidy law, also provides for an additional €38 million. As regards other expenditures, where the largest rural development measures are represented, and the transfer towards the Croatian highways and Croatian railways, infrastructure, those interest in fuel prices, i.e. in excise duties, and the total amount is €8.6 billion, for the whole item, and expenditure on the acquisition of non-financial assets, the Prime Minister explained more closely, which will be the main capital projects that we foresee for the next year total amounting to €5.4 billion. As for the overall result, you heard this and I will repeat again, therefore, all the levels of the general state, whether we are talking about the state budget, whether we are talking about extra- budget users, whether we are talking about local self-government, which is an integral part of the general government budget, in this projection period not only in 2019 but in the entire three-year period, notes exactly what we have drawn out as a government at the very beginning of the mandate. And this is like a public debt management strategy 3 basic pillars, on the one hand economic growth, on the other hand fiscal consolidation and on the third hand or third pillar is the activation of state assets. Today, we are mostly talking about this medium-resistance, central pillar of the public debt management strategy and reducing its share of GDP through the element of fiscal consolidation. During this budgetary period or the medium-term period of 3 years, the state budget improves its result as well as extra-financial users, and throughout 3 years for local self-government, we foresee a stable, balanced budget. I'll just mention and repeat here one more time, just in the first 10 months. This year, the effect of the legislative changes that the Croatian Parliament, which you voted on, has been marked by local and regional self-government funding for the time being in the first 10 months. 1.8 billion kn more revenue compared to last year. Which means that we are some 20% above that original plan, which we have drawn out for the whole of Mr. As regards the Law on the implementation of the state budget which is an integral part of this package, only briefly, what is prescribed by the Budget Act is prescribed in it, the budget base has not changed compared to the previous year is 3326 kn. As far as foreign and domestic market debt is concerned, it can be implemented from a total amount of 30.1 billion kn. Current payments, chief of state debt, 24.1 billion kuna. The following year we have 2 large maturitys one domestic bond of billions of euros and one international billion and a half US dollars, with of course all other instruments during the year that we will successfully not only refinance... to be restructured under more favourable conditions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as new financial guarantees are concerned, they amount to $ 3.8 billion. The collateral for the next year is planned at 1.5 billion kn. I'll remind you that she's been traditionally... in the amount of €265 million, but because of the element of the Oils, where we predict that some of the protested guarantees will be spilled into the next year, we plan these funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the total cap on the borrowing of all units of local and regional self-government, it stands at a maximum of up to 3% of total operating income of all units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106272	Thank you. Just one piece of information before the replica begins. So since the debate is united, clubs can speak 20 minutes at a time. Now let's go to the replicas. The first one's next, dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You seem to be in this speech of yours I fell into the world, so you're saying something no one believes. As if it flows in Croatia, you can nod your head, but as if honey and milk flow in Croatia. Why did 100,000 of our citizens leave Croatia last year when they had a nice time with Plenkovic? What people go to when Plenkovic gives, promises, turns trends, everything is great and people leave Croatia. That's the real question. A hundred thousand people have gone. Croatia and Croatia's GDP grow the slowest of all 28 member states, we fell on the doing business scale, what do those from the World Bank know, let them ask Plenkovic, he knows better, 18 places. 71% of citizens think that Croatia is going in the wrong direction, but do not listen here to our Pallet which says that everything in Croatia is beautiful, everything is beautiful and that we should actually realize here everything they do not see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106274	Thank you very much. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106275	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Maras, you hold fast to your demagogy, so remember what I told you that the difference will be double in the SDP and HDZ polls, even more than double. And that's why I'm glad this demagogy of yours doesn't go away. You've been known to be a government that hasn't paid for neither a regression nor a Christmas card, and I see you've been painting with union representatives the past few days. Unlike your policy towards them, we have agreed today and they are satisfied with what we have predicted and what we allow for the dignity of the lives of all people in Croatia. Your theories about how it is for this government that someone is leaving Croatia, I have argued several times and in a debate that you did not listen to the last time there was a European Council and you later came to ask questions without knowing that I have already answered your colleagues' repetitive interventions, what happens to other new members of the Union when restrictions, work permits and quotas are lifted. It's up to us to balance it over time, and that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106276	Thank you. My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106277	... a political economy that gives a certain direction to society. [[Specially enabled.]] What's visible at some level, I'll say the macro level that we still have 46% of the general government's GDP income actually coming through the budget or almost 20% of the tax, which is the most inclusive VAT, so 20%. What does that mean? This means that in this budget proposal the Leviathan has not actually trusted, so that expenditures rise by more than 7 billion kuna and since 2014 and from... and from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the government, your government now swims on some government as a pulfer smuggler and actually deals only with distribution, distribution and cost increase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But they'll be back in two, three years, and maybe sooner, the announcements say the crisis, and we won't be ready for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106278	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106279	How much was that esteemed representative Doncic's deficit in your time, was it 17 billion? Is it? I think it's and we're going to have a budget rate, to cut the deficit, to cut the budget's dissipative side when it comes to interest, now we're at almost less than 10 billion kuna. So to object to this government not to work on what everyone saw and you obviously don't see because your policy is to be demagogues and to manipulate the information that fiscal consolidation is one of the achievements seen by both the European Commission and the Credit Rating Agency, that this budget monitors growth that isn't just our assessment but is also an assessment of those who are watching us, the apothecary scale, then that's your problem. That's your problem. Look at the level of public debt in your time, look at it now, look at the trends. Fiscal consolidation is part of the triangle on which we insist on structural investment reform, that is what we are doing, what we are accomplishing and what will be part of the programme by the end of the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106280	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106281	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I am not going to deal with my grades but rather with the concrete research that was conducted from October to May of this year, so during your government where foreign investors were being questioned, investors see a business environment in Croatia. The survey was conducted on 473 companies, members of 6 chambers of commerce, American, Canadian, Nordic, German-Croatian and Italian chambers. They rated business conditions in Croatia negative. The biggest problems are red tape, public administration, tax system, corruption that is present in society. We're going down all the competitiveness charts or stagnating. They mentioned colleagues doing business, and these are concrete indicators. It's time for you to step aside and do something about it. And, Your Honor, I'd like to ask you, when the government of the Republic of Croatia is here, we're not being held accountable as agents. on parliamentary issues [[Intruder President: Comrade Grmoi, please.]] a year and a half. [[The incursion of President: Mr. Grmo.]] Here's a colleague Bernardic told me eight months ago he asked me a question. The EXOS Plus agency, which the ministries are working for, is still not responsible for. [[Intruder President: Comrade Grumo, please stop.]] Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106282	First, you get a warning now because you've used time, 20 seconds more for something that's not a topic. The last time it was current in the morning, I asked for a report on outstanding questions and I have to tell you that in this year you sent over over 1,000 questions to the government, it's answered to 900 and some questions, now I don't have the numbers because I didn't think anyone would react in this way today. So multiple issues, the government responds very quickly but it is impossible to answer this dynamic because then they would probably just answer parliamentary questions. And don't do that, you have a chance to take advantage of this and speak in free speech and whenever you want. ... No, MPs are respected, respected, especially you, colleague Maras. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106283	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Grmoy, as far as various research is concerned, they are good, useful, can also be some direction, incentive, corrective, however, the optics of how someone sees something, how something reads doesn't have to be the same. What I know and what we do. And what we're doing is also mentioned in the opening speech, when it comes to economics, a reduction in profit tax from 20 to 18 for large, I think it's a plus, not a heavy circumstance. The reduction in profit tax from 20 to 12 for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which is 85% of your economy in the Republic of Croatia, is huge plus for them, which remains their direct income, does not go to the state, does not go to someone else. The burying tax discharge will be 6.5 billion with these 3 waves of reform, with 3 cycles, Minister Horvat, administrative discharge, 2.5 billion additional discharge. So, just on these two measures, what's done in tax policy, what's done in eliminating parafiscal burdens, administrative The barrier, you've been coming up almost 8 billion, so it's not negligible, [[Intruder: Thank you]] Nine billion, excuse me. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106284	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106285	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. You're talking about demographic measures, in the Republic of Croatia 40% of children have no chance of being in kindergartens from the third to the sixth year. So we need to increase the revenue side. The fact is that telepliers are colonized in the Republic of Croatia, that the largest profit of all countries in Europe is from telepliers in the Republic of Croatia 40%, while in other countries the average is 20%, which means that telepliers in the Republic of Europe do not need a building permit, and in countries where they come from, they need to. They break spatial plans, work without a valid permit, do not pay the right of service, right way, while we, we have the most expensive Internet in Europe, and we are at the bottom by quality and speed because they make huge profits in the Republic of Croatia, with the Republic of Croatia in increasing and mortality of the number of tumors. I think, I'm asking you, what are you going to do as prime minister or perhaps some other dynasty, the muscle is ruling over the Republic of Croatia? Well, we can't. [[Intruder: Thank you]] So we're not allowed to be telephony operators. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] behaving... [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] behave like they do in their own countries. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106286	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106287	Thank you very much. Dear Ambassador Bull, I will answer you this way. First of all, are you and Mr. Bolt from the same party? Are you and Mr. Grmoya from the same party? And now it would be good if every policy had to have a more consistent line. So, you have your colleague sitting next to you, quoting a survey involving foreign companies blackmailing the business climate. Is that right? It is. And he says they must have seen well, and the government didn't see well. A second after that, you appear, as probably an agitator of the same policy of improving the investment investment climate in the Republic of Croatia, and you want what? To lift even bigger charges, to send even stronger messages to foreign companies and investors in the Republic of Croatia, to say you don't have to come here, you don't have to work here. So, get a little synchronised, figure out what you want. And what's the character of that party, I don't know who that bridge connects to. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106288	Thank you. Prime Minister, I ask you to call MPs, colleague Bulj is neither ambassador nor mayor, as you once said, he is a parliamentary representative. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106289	Dear Prime Minister, I don't know what you're nervous about, I'm just asking that the telephony operators behave, 232 is an injured article, behave in accordance with the Constitution and the Law. I don't know what you're nervous about, what's all of a sudden? Well, you're a diplomat, I'm Miro Bulj from Suvac, high school, peasant, the people gave him a lot more votes than your President of the Parliament, and I don't have a problem with that. Tele operators must behave in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. They must not be above, as in their own countries. Nothing no more, no less, and you obviously don't have the courage [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]] You are a servant of the dynasty in this country. [[Agreement: My colleague Bulj thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106290	You know yourself that you deserve a warning because you spoke outside of the Rules of Procedure, you've already replicated, so you've received a warning. Let's move on. Now it's your honorary colleague Sincic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106291	Mr Plenkovic, you are coming here today to us at HS, which gave you the mandate, although this majority of your right, yes, through the Croatian Government, you are leading various sectors of the Republic of Croatia and representing this budget as success. So you have a growth of 2.9., well, I don't know, 2.7.2.5, 2.3, so we're working here, and your result is the slowdown of growth. Research has been done by Maddie's son of the project in the last 27 years. In 27 years, the Republic of Croatia has increased 6.5%. 6.5% in 3 decades. In the same period, Slovenia 48%, Poland 124%, the Czech Republic 57%, Slovakia 108%, etc., all 10 times more than us. And your growth is some of those poor people below 3%, still slowing down. Well, that's not even enough to pay off interest in the existing financial system, so where's your 5% growth from the Program you presented to your voters. You have the nerve to come here and present this document as a success.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106292	Thank you very much, Mr. Son. I see that you are like the Bridge, in order to get some inspiration you have to read some papers, some other people, that are investigating something. But well, all in line with the maturity and strength of the political parties you represent. As for growth, if you had listened carefully to the presentations, then you would have understood the difference between the growth that can be 5%, and the constant borrowing of Croatian taxpayers, future generations and our children, and the difference of growth that is carried out on a healthy basis. It is much healthier growth, Mr. Sincic, this of 2.9 or 3% if you are at the same time reducing public debt, practically the same amount of 2 to 3% of GDP, than the one that is 5%, and you are in debt as that of colleagues and colleagues from the SDP while they trusted voters to lead the Republic. It's that distance, read some of those analyses too. It'll help you. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106293	A fellow Maras, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106294	I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, to warn the nervous Prime Minister Plenkovic on several occasions, 238, you're holding a session, he's giving lessons to the parties, assessing who is what, who connects whom, who is coherent, who is not coherent. Give the prime minister an answer to the questions. So, you answer to Croatian citizens through their representatives don't give us lessons here, I know you're nervous, because no one understands how great you are, actually, except yourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106295	Thank you. My colleague Maras, he's not hurt by his rules of procedure. It is not subordinated to the Rules of Procedure because the issues are of such nature, that they are not only focused on issues, but also give certain political qualifications. So, you get warnings because you're a misuse of the rules of procedure. Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106296	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister. There is no dilemma that the move where there is more money for health care, for education, praise, but especially when it comes to health care, I do not think that what you mentioned several times in your opening speech, which is the better to manage available resources and other, health care, means to ensure fiscal sustainability and rational use of public money. So you secured over a billion kunas of money more in the health system. At the same time, however, there is no guarantee that in the healthcare system, under the direction of Minister Kujundzic, rational management of these funds will be ensured shorter waiting lists, better treatment outcomes and ensure that healthcare professionals remain satisfied with their work in the Republic. So I'm afraid the money you've secured will only be spent on nothing, without our will and health outcomes in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106297	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106298	Thank you very much, Agent Jovanovic. I thank you first of all for your commendation. If I understand your exposure well, you have commended everything we do in the domain of health care and what we do in the area of education, you understand one and the other subject and it is good that you, with your experience, assess positively this decision that we made that health care has even more income. So a billion and 300 million kn, more income for health care, as we did last year in the rebalancing, that we gave the health care an additional billion kn, so it was the first year in which the additional debt of the health system was not achieved. We're taking care of that, too. I'm sure Mr. Maras will record that. As for the rational foreign governance, Minister Kujundzic has a clear task of doing everything in his work to make the expenditure side, business, procurement, prices, make it more favourable for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian system. And that's his job in carrying out this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106299	Thank you. I thank the Prime Minister and would like to ask the Prime Minister, colleague Maras, to ignore him and not to mention him. So please don't mention him. Let's move on, comrade Bunjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106300	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, in March of this year you announced the purchase of F16 fighter aircraft and to that end you secured 350 million kn in the budget. But to this day these fighter planes are gone, no contracts have been signed and I am interested in what you will now do with the 350 million, and whether the next 350 million kn will be spent, because it is obvious that this contract will never be signed. You say everything is agreed with your Deputy Prime Minister Krstic, but please tell me, in what capacity then the president of the state, Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, spoke to US President Trump this month about the acquisition of the plane. So obviously something about those planes is wrong, which means you're planning the budget wrong and I'm wondering who's gonna take responsibility for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106301	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106302	As for the procurement of Mr. Bunjac's more dedicated fighter aircraft, everything remains as it is. What's going on, and I think it's logical and natural, is that that kind of contract that's being made, and it's not about products that cost 10 or 15 kn, but it costs a little more. The requirements are a detailed analysis of all experts, legal experts, consultations with the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, with all those representing the interest of the Republic of Croatia in negotiations, which can be freely said, without precedent. So far, we have not had any political courage, nor any other government's political will, but rather the issue of the acquisition of aircraft has extended for 20 years without a solution. As soon as it agrees, it will all be settled, as well as advance payments and payments, succesively, as those wars arrive, that is, how the planes are delivered to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106303	Dear colleague Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106304	Thank you very much. You say, Prime Minister, that this budget is socially sensitive, turned to development and in the service of demographic policy. If it's your demographic policy, the next population of Slavonia, then I can agree that it really is. Because the only thing Slavonia gets from your government is a failed p.r. a project you like to call the Slavonia project. Let me give you just a few examples of special infrastructure. So, let's say county administrations, roads, Osijek Baranja County, can restore you annually, just 2% of their road fund, 2%. It's in the papers in front of the county assembly. That means next time they'll be rebuilding them, you know when? In 50 years, will this infrastructure advance Slavonia? The railroad that passes through the Podravina is literally falling apart. You say employment is growing. The only employer who is insinuately employed in Osijek's Baranja County is Osijek's Baranja County headed by the mayor from your break. We have the most administrative departments of all counties in the Republic of Croatia, so you wouldn't be surprised if we were to get an administrative ore and a waste of time soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106305	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106306	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As for your reference, the Slavonia project, as you said, has failed. project. Well, don't say that. You are as a parliamentary representative from 4 in 5 constituency, often invited to council meetings, I don't know how many regularly you respond, if you regularly responded, you'd be a little more directional and informed, you'd hear the mayor and you'd hear the heads of development agencies from these 5 counties, you'd realize how much resources have been pooled, channeled, gathered, either from national, or from European funds just according to Slavonia. And the whole idea is for the ministers to be 2.5 billion euros. The number of funds already agreed is growing continuously, development agreements, projects, no part of Slavonia, and you will see at the presentation, here I am now inviting you to come to Pakrac on December 19th to be with us, listen to the small-scale ministry, listen to the mayors, and then comment on it, don't be co-op, do it by your older colleagues but are without success.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106307	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleague of the Dark-Taritash, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106308	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government. So when we look at this budget and we've had a chance to listen to you, you repeat what everyone says about each budget is that it's developmental, socially sensitive and solidarityal. Likewise, at the end of your presentation, you said it was important to work better, invest more and manage better, which I can generally agree with, but my question concerns something else. So in two years when you're looking at the spending side of the budget, it's either a 16 billion jump or a 15% jump. We all know that there is savings when there is, and not when it is not available, and that is a period in which debt can be refinanced more favourably and so other things can be rationalised, provided that you rationalise the expenditure side of the budget. Why didn't you do it, why don't you do it to have a reduction at the end of two years?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106309	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106310	Thank you very much. Dear Representatives Mrak-Taritash, you were also in the Governments of the Republic of Croatia, you know very well what is fixed in Croatian budgets, and what is variable, and I think it is clear to any of you on the left hand side of the Assembly, which was once in the executive power, and it will also appreciate how much resources we have foreseen in this growth now, the essence of the real rise in the state budget is only 2.8 billion, so all these other funds are foreseen from the European Funds, all of which are, whether it is indexing pensions, what I was talking about, I believe that as a party that stands for the people, I think you appreciate that our pensioners have bigger pensions. They have to be consistent with salary growth, I can't stay less. Is that right? I guess so. Is the same thing about correcting the salaries of all these people who came and talked to some of your colleagues, how to make them. Demographic measures, education, capital investment, all part of what is growing, and ministers are tasked with being rational in this context of the protested guarantees in Uljanik.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106311	Thank you. Thank you. Here you go, my fellow Squirt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106312	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister with ministers, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Well, here, you presented this budget as the winning budget, and really when we look at the numbers, we see that almost all the ministries, with the exception of the tourism ministry, are growing the budgets they will have in 2019. But is that really so? On a few examples, I'll try to prove that it isn't. The health care industry is growing by a billion kuna, but the total debts are 3 billion kuna, so the total debts of 8 billion kuna are due. The peace system is also more than a billion kunas of growth, but those who should benefit most from it, our pensioners, perhaps about 60 kuna, the vast majority of them will grow their pensions. The local self-government is losing nearly half a billion kuna this year because of your tax reform. Too little resources are provided for the development of mountainous mountainous areas,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106313	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106314	Thank you very much, High Representative. You mentioned a lot in this presentation, what seems to me to be the key, and I guess that's your biggest interest, is that you come from units or duties on local self-government units, is to see more realistically what all the legal changes we've made and how much resources are left directly to local and regional self-government units. We have a good system of dialogue with all mayors, excellent communication with the Association of Cities, excellent communication with the Association of Municipalities, so here use that channel when you speak in that capacity so ask little of your fellow mayors, mayors, mayors, how much more funding this government has left for them for their budgets and for their projects. There will be few who say that there are fewer, and even those who are smaller, we have foreseen the Institute of Alignment. So I don't see a minus for the local level, but just a plus in our mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106315	Thank you. Thank you. Comrade Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106316	I thank Mr. President, Prime Minister. Let's be objective, life isn't a fairy tale, life isn't a movie, as you might say, and life says that industrial production this whole year is falling, if we fell on a competitiveness scale in two years 18 places, to slow down exports, to slow down investments, import is again bigger than exports, so we're going back there at the beginning of the crisis, a very serious situation, but I'd like to ask you something else for a comment. The unemployment rate, you often boast that the unemployment rate has fallen, decreased most in Europe. However, we cannot get the right data, which says that in the last 4 years, the number of unemployed has really fallen by 195,000, but only 57,000 are employed by people. So somewhere around 138,000 is either gone from Croatia, or deleted from the records.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106317	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Greek. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106318	Thank you very much, Mr. Greek, for your question. As for employment and unemployment, and I was talking about employment already in speech, so the estimates of this third quarter are 63% of employment, our goal is to get to 68%, that's ambition and we're working on it. As far as unemployment is concerned, she has reached the lowest levels during this season. As for the eviction and departure of people, I ask you, and all other colleagues, that's a great topic for political points, but look at it realistically. See Polish numbers after the 2+3+2 formula which has gone to other Union members has been exhausted, see the situation in Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria. This year, we are the only ones left in Austria who have some restrictions on their labour market. Freedom of movement of workers, people, one of the fundamental four freedoms, people use it. It's up to us to... Don't turn your head, that's how if we came in 10 years ago, that would have happened 5 years ago. Happy ones who now have a chance to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106319	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now we have a colleague named Curray. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106320	Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, I am interested in the position of Slavonia and Baranja in this new budget. There we had the opportunity to hear about the project Slavonia, I see from the material that for co-financing, means the own part goes from nearly 200 million, only 185 million from the Ministry of Regional Development and they had the other day, some week on the rebalancing of almost 60 and some million for the project Slavonia and Baranja. So I'm interested in exactly what amount we expect to withdraw next year. I'm glad to see when it comes to traffic that the crossings of Vinkovci, Vukovar, White Manastir, Petrovics, so over 200 million kuna. But I would like it even more if this budget could see and prepare documentation projects for the construction of the fast road Zagreb, Bjelovar, Virovitica, Slatina, Miholjac, Osijek, to welcome the prepared opening of funds for such development because I think that along the 5C highway corridor and 10 railways that this fast road is one of the priorities of the development of Slavonia and Baranja. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106321	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106322	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Vice President Radin. Your Honor, counsel Curaj. As for the focus on Slavonia, here you are, unlike some other common participant of our advice and you have seen how well structured this is and how much resolutions through this framework are trying to give added value to the development objective of that part of Croatia which was the most affected both during the time of the occupation of the country and the time of the Homeland War and where the circumstances are such and that is, of course, the element of tourism that raises both Croatian GDP and Croatian economies and investments far less present than on the coast. Therefore, all of this we do, whether for infrastructure projects, one of the key projects for your county, which is Osijek-Baranja, is the completion of corridor 5C, so Croatian highways, Croatian roads, the Ministry of Transport hired us to solve these remaining 28 km and integrate Croatia into this corridor, all the more detail in Pakrac on 19th.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106323	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106324	Dear Prime Minister, you said in your statement that this budget is solid and socially sensitive. But look, over the past few days and weeks, public service workers have been demanding a billion-dollar salary increase. You said it couldn't be that much, it could be 900 million kuna. Retired people demand an increase in pensions, you say you can't or give something small. But on the other hand, you can't pay the banks and the funds a year 10 billion kuna for interest and the economic profession has calculated that you only have to pay 5 billion because it can be overfunded. So, what's the conclusion? You are the Government and Prime Minister, the representative of the neoliberal doctrine that says, you who live weakly, live from your work, we will take even more from you or we will give you crumbs. And those of you who have it, they're bankers, funds, foreign banks, you who have it, we'll put more in your pocket. Please do not use the term unsolicited budget because it is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106325	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106326	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović, it's all a matter of optics. Your thesis on this interest-refunding topic is well known to us. What's also important is that you look at these numbers realistically. Here, I mentioned this morning's meeting, which began at 7.30, were Ministers Pavic and Maric before this debate today on the budget and we solved the issues with the unions. We solved it the way we could. So since last year 2+2+2, this year 3% of January 1st, 2% of 1.9. So you tell me if the nurses, the teachers, the cops, everyone else who works in public services, and then also in the states, will be unhappy and say that this budget is non-solid or that it may not be socially sensitive, I think it will. Ask them. This is your position, political parties, not those to which it applies. The same thing is with what we do with pensioners and the second round of the pension reform debate will show it in practice as of 1 January.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106327	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106328	Thank you, Vice President. Dear President of the Croatian Government with ministers, I welcome you. You said you were counting on GDP growth of 2.8% and you have to admit that it is lower than in the countries surrounding Slovenia, Bulgaria and Romania and that we are slightly lagging behind them and that it is not enough to service the existing public and external debt. I agree with you that it must invest in the economy and new jobs and exports. Then why are you reducing the amount to co-finance the wood processing sector from 80 to 40 million kuna? What message is that? What is the message that the same basket are entrepreneurs from Slavonia and Like with these from Zagreb? Well, I can't have those who are barefoot playing the game with those who are in the baths. And what kind of message did you send with the customs, state inspectorate and police performance at the Brod Fair at the Vodnjan Fair, Lithuania, you train strictness at small OPGs and you talk about the dispensation of the economy. So don't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106329	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106330	Thank you very much. Representative Vlaovic, as regards the assessment of growth and what you say and what exists in other countries. So my key message is that this government is really assessing what it can be, realistically. So if you're realistic in the evaluations and we've been realistic in the evaluations and in our guidelines of fiscal and economic policy adopted in August, we've just found ourselves in these frameworks with all possible needs of all the resistors and are in line with the assessment of the growth of 2.9%. And if my growth is 2.9% of GDP and I'm also reducing public debt at 2-3% of GDP, then it's healthier, then it's better. The easiest thing to say is, here's the Minister of Finance to go to a road show, charge Croatia, and we'll invest what your children or grandchildren will have to pay for tomorrow. Well, we said that, no, we're not going to borrow, over what's real so we can serve. I'm running a very simple policy, and we're going to make less promises and we're going to do more. It's the same thing with support in the wood industry. 80 million people have had enough this year, if it takes more than what's scheduled, we'll find [[Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106331	Thank you. Mrs. Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106332	Thank you, dear Vice President, so Mr. Prime Minister, you mentioned that the 2.5 billion figure is real, but then we must really say that this figure of 17 billion kuna is actually what, which, planned by the EU funds, would simply be unrealistic to actually be a scientific phenomenon. Because, realistically, so far, it's been withdrawn, how much? And as far as it's planned by 2020, over 80% of us are already alone, so you saw and admitted how much money was left unpunished. Over 7 billion, so what you're planning right now is actually science fiction. And let the citizens judge for themselves, is that it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106333	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106334	Dear Representative Alfirev, thank you for asking, which I suppose refers to European funds, right? That's it, good. So, very simple October 2016 we assume responsibility based on voter trust and Croatian Parliament number of agreed funds 9%, 9 is 2016. So last 14th, last 15th, last 16th, today's contracted Minister Zhalac 60%. 15% paid, 14-15% paid. So, by raising the capacity primarily for ministries, implementing bodies, governing bodies, coordinating the entire system of absorption of European funds, strengthening the capacity of all those entities involved at local level, we are working within which we will use, plus rule n+3 as much as we can, the financial envelope that is now EUR 10.7 billion. It's not just us. However, responsibility is now ours which was before, it may have been slower what we're going to do now efficiently and better than it was and that redistribution balance the European budget [[Intruder: Time sir.]] This whole thing with the freedom of movement of workers. [[Intruder: Time]] That's the key. Once we balance that out, we'll all be happy. [[Intruder: Time sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106335	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106336	Dear Prime Minister, therefore, everyone should appreciate the government's efforts to reduce the deficit and, of course, the associated public debt. Still, we could say that this is one comfortable budget but a little too congested. Why? We still have very high expenditures that are not enough to satisfy all acquired, acquired rights, and even those who are newly promised, we see it from this morning's meeting. On the other hand, we have high incomes that burden both citizens and entrepreneurship. And then you say that this budget is development, and where we're going to base that development on such a tight budget. What should certainly be taken into account are these former replicas, attracting funds from EU funds, inviting mayors, commissioners, resolution ministers, mayors, ask what they lack? We don't have a quarter of the cities in general attracting funds from EU funds, and if that doesn't happen, there won't be a development budget, we'll actually have one rich budget for poor citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106337	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106338	Thank you very much, here I see and your inquiry comes from the aspect of the users of European funds, you are aware that there are 3 elements there. One is the administrative capacity of local units to be prepared at all to administer European projects, some are good, some are better, some are weaker, some have not yet set foot in that path. However, by law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, we have given you greater original income. You now have better starting positions in the finish line to start with project documentation, to prepare it qualityly, this fund that is now 200 million and if it is realistic we will try to redistribute it and increase it during the year to facilitate that co-financing component. It's a synergy effort. This government is told that there's no dialogue with mayors, commissioners and mayors, so we've established one so far an unprecedented level of communication, unseen, no matter what party communication we all have open, permanent, all ministers on the ground, no project on the ground for which This government doesn't know or doesn't help. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106339	Thank you, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106340	Dear Prime Minister, first of all, you're talking about the surplus that's been accomplished, it's not about the surplus that the public knows. So if you've already predicted that you're going to be in charge of 3 or 4 billion kunas, and you've only owed 1 billion or 2 billion kunas is not a surplus, but we're just a little less in charge. So it's a deficit but a slightly smaller deficit than planned. The second thing I have to do is comment, you said there's a trend all over Europe that people are running from countries and Hungary and Poland, so they're running away, but it's like when a child gets one at school and then tells parents you know, you know, mom, dad so Josko and Marco also got a unit. You said nicely earlier that in 2016 you took responsibility and you are responsible for the 150,000 that left Croatia, and nothing is easier for us in Croatia that the fields have left their country.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106341	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106342	Thank you very much, Agent Zekanovic. When I first met you in Brussels you came with a group of visitors to Maletic, you acted to me a little more identified with European topics, now you seem so manipulative on the other side that you are not even credible to me. So, you in my eyes and ears what you were telling me back then and what you're doing now has absolutely nothing to do with each other and you know it very well, you know where we talked, we sat next to each other for two hours, I was instead of Ivana's host. But that's irrelevant. What's important is that I don't even know the basis for that math that you don't see surplus, is that you read it better than the State Statistics Office, if you read it better than the European Statistical Office, I don't know by which mathematics you don't see surpluses. I would ask you to spread it out to the public, to all of us, to your party whoever it is you need, not to be manipulative in here saying something that is not true. Freedom of movement is fundamental freedom, the fundamental freedom of the entire European project this is happening 'Cause you can. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It would've happened 15 and 20 years ago if it could've happened. quota and work permits, be aware of that. [[Thank you, time sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106343	And at the end of this first... Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106344	238, the Prime Minister told me to manipulate and lie or not to tell the truth is the same Prime Minister as you were surprised at me, I was surprised at you. I thought you'd be one of the Christian Democrats, as you presented yourself, but you didn't. And all that demographic politics or what the Ministry of Demography has done so far, only the Istanbul Convention and nothing but that, actually. So I think it's a surprise, and I'll say disappointment both ways. Hrvoje Zekanovic was the same as And apparently so are you. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106345	Time, thank you very much. And at the end of the first part, the replica. So the replica to Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106346	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of HS, the Honorable Prime Minister. When you spoke about the country's strategic act, of course it's too little time to talk more and more intensively about such a single document. I expected, for example, from a colleague of the Living Wall, that he would ask us some things, and related to the expenditure side of the budget and insurance, in fact, to implement a simple, simpler process of consumer bankruptcy, this should be stressed because significant funds have been provided. On the other hand, there was too little time to talk about it last year with the adoption of two laws, in fact, we talked about blocked, those 325 000 that were reduced to 274,000, about a one-time, actually, write-off of debts by 6,300 persons in the Republic of Croatia or about a reduction of 43 billion total debt to 19 billion debt. So, and this item related to the expenditure side of 40 million kuna implementation the simple bankruptcy process of the consumer will be very, very... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106348	.../Speaker off/...output that sentence of 40 million kuna intended for the personal bankruptcy of consumers because we considered so many other topics more relevant to place an accent on them. But it's a good thing you mentioned them because they mention one important reform that we've made in the past months, which is a package of 3 laws relating to the resolution of blocked citizens, first of all, the discharge of debts made by the state, made by some units of local self-government, made by certain private companies, where they came out to meet those who had objective difficulties in serviceing their obligations. The second law in which you referred where the new way is based on this law reduces the total debt has reduced a large number of blocked people by more than 50,000. The third law leaves from January 1st, the most important Ministry of Justice is moving soon with finalisation of the new Executive Act which will further facilitate the position of those who have found themselves in an uninvited position. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106349	Thank you very much, thank you. But there's still work to be done, there's three more, there were papers underneath. Mr. Cosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106350	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Government, forming a budget is a demanding job that I believe you have done well and professionally. The budget is balanced, on the one hand it is developed economically, and on the other hand it is socially sensitive enough. We Assembly representatives are representatives of the environment from which we come, so as far as Brod-Posavina County is concerned, we are satisfied with the inclusion of important projects in the state budget, and I am pleased that, here we are, which, by intensifying the talks we have come to agree that we should include two important projects in the budget for our environment, for which conditions have been obtained. Both of them are from the field of education, one of which refers to higher education and the University of Slavonski Brod, and the other, to primary education and children with developmental difficulties at OS Milan Ambrus and therefore the two of us, the three representatives from Brod-Posavina County, have referred two amendments to this important topic. And we believe that, by predicting budgets for these important projects, the residents of our county, you will finally provide access to quality education, like that... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106351	Thank you, Mr. Cosic. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106352	Thank you very much, Representative Cosic. Here we are, as far as Slavonski Brod is concerned, we recently had, and we have been there several times together and this great project relating to Luka Slavonski Brod on the Sava, I think it is about investing more than 100 million kuna that will surely contribute to the entire development of Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County. As far as the questions of the University are concerned, I think we're going to find one quality solution within that limit that exists for the University of Osijek, and I think we need to work this out, that's good and in the context of education. As far as other projects are concerned, we will see during the debate or the amendment that they are, whether there is anything else that we can support, but our policy is even regional development and reducing inequality in certain parts of the Republic, the constant and that is what we are doing, and it is yours, of course, that you are in favour of those projects that are from your county. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106353	Thank you, too. Mrs. Rostice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106354	Thank you. Here, Honorable President, I feel the duty to say it, I didn't mean to start with it, but it's important to say, when I was a student, then they're all burdening us with stories, you're due so much and so much. Your government owes you so much and so much every year and already traditionally students listen to these discussions about the budget, and we need to know that from last year the debt per capita is shrinking. And when we talk about doing business scales, I ask myself, I wonder here, does the members of the opposition even know parts of the business scales because it clearly assesses tax discharge. In three rounds of tax discharge for citizens and the economy, we transferred six billion kunas. And when we brought tax reform, or all of these cycles of tax reform, the opposition didn't care about doing business, or citizens, or business, or anything like that. And we also have to mention that last 2017's investments were EUR 1.84 billion and that this year we expect a record number of investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106355	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106356	.../Speaker disabled/... Roscic, I agree with your... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106357	Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106358	Thank you, Vice President. Here's a question for the president. So, one call to righteousness, which we talked about when we formed and received government support. So, I, you didn't talk about transport infrastructure by means of both budgets and European funds. I will only draw your attention that almost 8 billion kunas are intended for funds over the next 3 years that will be invested in the southern part of Croatia, so from the bridge of Rijeka, Split, Pelješka bridge, the common roads on the Pelješki bridge, there are traffics of about 3.5 thousand vehicles on average a year while you have a problem that is here just before, that is, not only traffic but also the economic problem Podravska highway, so Podravska Y, a fast Podravska road, it is one stock that in the 19th and 20th years put these roads in designing to make the next project funded from EU funds such as the Peljega Bridge... millions of euros was... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder Radin: Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106359	Thank you, Mr. Lackovic. Time. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106360	Thank you very much, Mr. Lackovic. As for the Podravska highway by talking to you and to a number of colleagues and mayors from that part of Croatia, I understand how important it is for development, for integration, for easier availability and for the economic, traffic performance of that part of Croatia at all. The fact is that we miss her, we miss her, it's too slow to come from Varazdin towards Osijek, indicatively speaking your way. And I think that in the projects that both Croatian roads and Croatian highways and the minister of traffic are there, find the funds I'm sure of for project documentation, it shouldn't be a problem. However, what is important is to make one real, real hodogram that we are going to invest this network which is normally road infrastructure is very good, airport infrastructure is very good, our goal is to invest in railways by 2030. She was Commissioner Bulz last Friday at my place. There are still a lot of resources that we can focus on projects of this very character, and we will also do so in agreement with national funds and in synergy with European sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106361	Thank you, too. And now this first part is over. And I will take the right to congratulate on behalf of the Croatian Parliament the world champions in tennis, the Croatian national team, who won France yesterday and became the world tennis champion, or Davis Cup, it is no less important than football, so we must not discriminate between sports, regardless of the popularity of one or the other, so I would ask that we welcome them with a big round of applause. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And now we move on to the replicas sent to Mr. Maric, Minister of Finance. The first is Mr. Felak. Mr. Felak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, first of all, I generally commend myself on the budget itself, and I think that as the Chinese say, it's the art of being able to look at all the demands and demands and all the sectors and what is available, I think the budget is well balanced and will respond to its challenges. But my specific question goes first and foremost towards road construction. To praise what the ZUC programme said would continue to build Podravska Ipsilon from the Križevci towards Koprivnica and from Farkaševec to Bjelovar. It's in my constituency. But in general I am interested and this is the co-financing of ZUC where it is said that in 2019 the planned funds of 25 million kuna and in 2020 and 2021 are not planned to co-finance, so there is a way for financing ZUC permanently from some sources because the county roads are also very important for Croatia as a whole. as well as the state and everyone else. [[Thank you, time, Mr. Felak.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106363	Thank you. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106364	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, thank you very much, of course, for the commendation of the budget and this second part of the funding, colleague Butkovic, me and other colleagues in the government are working on this particular area, how and how to ensure again, we can say such empowerment and financial sustainability of the county road administrations. And you know that there have been some changes in the past that have significantly weakened their budgets and financial resources, but as a rule, when we are talking about roads and highways, we refer to Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Rijeka-Zagreb highways, individual concession companies, and in some ways, perhaps less importantly, to county road administrations. We know very well that they manage a very large one, or they are responsible for maintaining a very large number, including the so - called ones. unclassified and other roads. So, not just these... which we provided last year and this year, an additional 100 million are working on a more permanent solution in terms of financial sustainability. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106365	Thank you, too. Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106366	Mr. Ministers of Finance, the Croatian economy and then the budget proposed depends on tourism, EU funds, so on others and not on us. Industrial production stagnates, and it's the last time we start a red alarm before we're in a banana. Because both you and the prime minister are acting the way Prime Minister Sanader and Mr. Schucker acted 10 years ago saying that everything is okay and one leg is already standing on the crust of bananas and it's only a matter of time before we slip. The budget itself can be described in three sentences, more money for the acquisition of assets, we have no idea who it is, more money for the entanglement and the used expensive toy of the defence minister, more money for health care, which is without the reform of the waste of money and is again spent more than we have, is once again running away from key reforms. Because the chair in Brussels is better than this one in the Ban Courts. [[Intruder Radin: Time Mr. Mrsic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106367	Time, time. Mr. Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106368	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, and of course, in this first part, I certainly cannot agree with you, the budget not a small number of times in the Croatian Parliament, when it is discussed and the macroeconomic projections and assumptions we get in general the criticism that we are unambitious, and in and on these criticisms we always respond that at this moment this is a real projection, a projection that is sustainable but we also do everything we can to make this rate of economic growth even higher. And of course it depends not only on these elements that you have said to tourism and European resources, but on a whole series of other sectors and the Croatian economy and, in general, on all those who subscribe. As regards the expenditure side of the budget, of course, it is the same question as how each of us will view the total expenditure, so and how they are distributed, in accordance with government priorities, but also in accordance with some moments and moments, you know well and recognize safely in this budget even though you did not mention the majority of the increase is just going for the salaries of state and public officials, respectively. for pensions of Croatian pensioners. [[Thank you, Mr. Minister.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106369	Mr. Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106370	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, in the introduction of the opening statement of the Prime Minister and so did you, Mr. Minister, for not hearing a word about fiscal decentralisation, namely this proposal of the budget and the new so-called tax reform continues to be taken by local communities. And the difference between local income and the central state continues to increase. I'll remind you that from 1998 to 2018, that difference has increased from 40 billion to over 100 billion, which means that the trend continues and I therefore conclude that you are continuing the rigid centralization of the state. Mr. Prime Minister has also mentioned in one reply the original revenues that have increased, so I would ask you to tell us what the original incomes and the 1.8 billion that you mentioned are increasing whether this is the result of the success of the local self-government units and right now. the punishment of the successful [[Time, Mr. Demetlika.]] you are taking to reward the failures. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106371	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106372	Thank you, Your Honor, thank you for the fact that the very exact data that actually confirms or in some way serves as an argument in our debate, that is, your question and my answer. So, first and foremost this government proposed, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government according to which total income from income tax was paid to local self-government, so the state gave up the whole part of it and all the part that had been financed for decentralised functions practically transferred to its burden, when we defended the budget, we said the effect was a billion and 400, when it added to it and the fact that some units would compensate for certain potential loss of the total effect of the law a billion-and-a-half. By 31.10. so for the first 10 months of this year a billion and 800 million kuna more compared to the same period of the previous year, County 30% higher, cities and municipalities 17, average for all units of local and regional self-government 19, Istrian County 17. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106373	Thank you. Mrs. Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106374	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, of course I welcome the positive shifts that have been visible in the budget for 3 years in a row. Dispersion of our citizens in the previous 2 years of 4.3 billion kuna is something that everyone felt for sure, and what I particularly welcome is income from income tax, which from the beginning of this year has been denied by the central state budget which in my county is 22 million kuna and with fiscal balance, it is nearly 40 million kuna that is enough to build one school, and I certainly welcome, and the conditions for the work of the University in Slavonski Brod and the primary school Milan Amrush, where we 3 representatives from Slavonski Brod have submitted an amendment and I am sure that this government, as recognised by the delay of Slavonia, will be included in the budget this year and for the next year and for the two items, along with everything there and of course I welcome the Slavonia and Baranja Project which will certainly be very much help to help to make it Slavonia Directly [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] with the rest of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106375	Thank you, Mrs. Maximichuk. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106376	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so here you are also adding to the previous question and my answer, so it was not our intention to strengthen the fiscal capacities of local self-government but of course to make one fairer redistribution of those revenues, and among other things, this very fund of alignment or alignment that you said serves this very purpose. The same is the treatment of all Croatian counties, all Croatian cities and municipalities but this is exactly what you say when you look from county to county I will repeat once again the average is 30% more funds, but here if we mention or compare the previously said Istrian County, Brod-Posavina County, of course these percentages vary. Let's say the Istrian County, given the level of economic development, is not participating or very little on the means of balancing, so that growth is about 17%, and for the Brod-Posavina County, this growth is 85% in the first 10 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106377	Thank you, Mr. Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106378	I thank Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, Prime Minister and Mr. Tolusic, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of all farmers in increasing the agricultural budget from 7.2 billion to 7.5 billion, with 7.7 billion in particular commending an increase of 100 million for direct payments in agriculture that go directly to the farmer and without these direct payments, there is no retention of farmers in the country and without these direct payments we cannot equalise ourselves with our colleagues in the EU. As for fiscal decentralisation of local self-government units of 10 months and 800 that's great, I want to make it very clear that in this way our mayors can now normally create their own budgets and that is certainly justice unlike Milanovic's government, which took the units of local self-government and when we were most squirming in debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106379	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106380	Thanks to the well-respected representative, I think that this first part that you mention about agricultural production speaks a lot about both the Deputy Prime Minister and all of us in the Government that we work together in this area, so you refer to the expenditure side of the budget, so the increase in subsidies, any direct payments, whether for rural development, or for some other measures in general in agricultural production, where I would especially apostrophe not only of the overall increase but also of this European component, so the components of European funds, at the same time reducing national but also would also be referred to other measures concerning the budget itself and fiscal policy itself, you know well, and we talked several times about the Croatian Parliament, so the measures of the third round of tax redundancies are actually directed and related to agricultural producers, we are sure that they will not only recognise it but in the finality and use of their total production, and that their gross production, which will also be the total production of their production of the products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106381	Thank you, too. Mr. Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106382	Thank you, Your Honor, the President, the Honorable Minister of Finance. Here you are talking about higher income units of local self-government, and I agree that the higher incomes of cities and municipalities, the more cities may get, and the smaller municipalities, but I disagree with the calculation of the reference rate, where you took for the reference rate only the income tax, I have been saying from the beginning that it will not be fair and it is not fair, and I will give you a drastic example which is not fair. Namely, the settlement schedule, let's say one municipality at sea Vir, which has a budget of 80 million kuna, one of the largest budgets in Croatia as regards the municipalities, gets 400,000 kuna in the first quarter for fiscal balancing, and one small municipality in Zagorje, Zagorska Villages that has 2-3 million kuna budget, it gets twice less, 200,000 kuna. And that's what's unfair. Many municipalities and cities have large incomes other than tax revenues, and it is unfair. If we want to have a balanced development of Croatia, we should work on that fiscal balance in the next year, i.e. the reference rate is not only income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106383	Time, Mr. Prelec. Thank you. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106384	Thank you very much, Your Honor. And you as well as some of your colleagues who are also, have experience as local leaders actually, on several occasions we discussed on these topics, and of course there is always some restraint on one side because you can't fully support the measures that the government is proposing, but I'm glad you recognize these results. You know that this particular element of fiscal balancing and calculating these benchmarks was one of the key elements that we've dealt with, and that's what we said when we said we're going to devote ourselves to a little more time, the Association of Cities, the Community of Countys have also participated and I think we've found a good solution, because we took a fifth annual average, we don't look at one year, because a local unit, a certain city, a municipality or a county in one year can be some sort of surprise, or a jump, or a fall in income, so it breaks the whole ratios. So, I think we've made one quality solution, a five-year average that moves, and that's why they settle or fulfil all those obligations laid down in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106385	Thank you, too. Mrs. Prelec, Mrs. Glavak, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's a lot of us, yeah, understandable. Mr. Ministers of Budget is in some way also a message of fiscal consolidation and that expenditure will actually be in the function of economic growth, so I will ask you once again to sum up this expenditure side of the budget and once again to say how much savings are planned for the debt or for the refinancing. And no less important, for my county, so Međimurje County, I will go with the amendment, it is connected to Croatian roads, so the most frequent road in Međimurje County, the Nedelišce and Pusćin bypass, for the rest of the public is probably not so important, but for Međimurje and all people who migrate daily towards Varazdin are extremely important and I will ask urgent designing to enter the Croatian Roads plan by redistribution and also by building plan in 2020, and I will explain in more detail in an individual debate why this is extremely important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106387	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106388	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here are the shortest, shortest lines in terms of time, therefore, of the total increase in the budget of those 2.8 billion as regards general sources, the largest part of the waste to increase pensions and pension incomes in terms of indexation, then there are salaries and receipts concerning state and public services, but at the same time, of course, the measures of demographics, somewhere around 470 million kuna, measures concerning co-financing of European Union projects, we predict around 200 million kuna at the level of the Ministry of Regional Development. Of course there's science and education, we're not just talking about wages, we're talking about the very implementation of reform, some other elements, about 350 million kuna. So, we have summed up in some way in the globally all the measures, and what you have recognized well, and in this budget, and mainly in the previous budgets, the biggest savings on the bulky side, and with this direction we are still planning, are just being achieved at the cost of interest, and that's something that we did in 2016, when we talked about then the budget and perspective of some mid-term and apostrophe. I think in that field we got the results that more than 2 billion kunas are a reduction in interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106389	Time. Thank you very much. And in the end, Mr. Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106390	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary. When you look at only two positions in this budget, then you see the best results of this government's policy. One of the positions is the difference between income and expenditure, where since 2015, some 15 billion deficits have been left to Croatian citizens, one part of the income to the Croatian economy, it is all expensive through these 3 tax reforms about 6 billion kuna, and also because of the reduction of the debt requirement, due to the reduced deficit, is the cost of interest compared to 2015, reduced from 11.5 to 9 billion kuna, so that fiscal consolidation and stability of public finances have been recognised by international investors, and I am asking you for the Croatian public, once again in this high home to explain how and under which conditions old debts can be refinanced.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106391	Thank you. Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106392	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So it's this last element you're talking about, so was it just before and some other kind of question, so, as far as the commitments and the funding and the re-financing plans are concerned, they're not just about the current stuff, but first of all, about the payments of debts from previous years. So, not only from the perspective of the central budget this government has made several significant steps and on the restructuring of some other debts, I will particularly apostrophe the segment of highways and roads here, we are all very well aware of how many highways were built in Croatia, but at the same time in which and under what conditions, mainly in some other and third stages they are funded. So, for the most part, these debts were already on, this, in maturity, we have restructured not only those debts which are within their reach, but also those that have not yet achieved significant savings where their companies, with companies managing the sector, mean more than 30% interest costs reduction, so somewhere that they've singled out about a billion and 200 at the annual level. For some over 400 million kunas less, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106393	We're done with the replicas. And now does the Committee's representatives want to take the floor? No one. Okay, we're going to the debate, I'm opening a debate, first of all by the clubs, first Mr. Bozo Petrov is in front of the Advocacy List Bridge club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106394	Honored representatives of the government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Dear citizens, the most important document of the year needs to be discussed today. Today it is debated how 136 billion of your kunas will be spent. Will the ruling be able to spend more than I can earn, income, as we presented at the very beginning. But interestingly, just when it comes to discussing how your 136 billion kuna will be spent, it is then that they come to debate a particular topic that has been sharing us for decades. Why? Because if there were no such topics, today the citizens could follow here very carefully, very carefully then we could ask one logical question, logical questions that are for the government, obviously very difficult. One of the logical questions is why do you spend more than we earn? Citizens can't spend more than they earn, how dare you? Who's gonna pay those debts back? That's a logical question. Then the second logical question, so you announced, we are now monitoring, there is no reform, you announced for 2018 that the year is reform. Where are the reforms? The third logical question that citizens will ask you if they follow closely, how will their 136 billion kuna be distributed. That last year you spoke when you represented the 2018 budget, that the 2019 Honored Prime Minister would be the year in which the budget will be balanced. We'll spend as much as we make, and there'll be a surplus next year. You went out here today, and you said next year we're gonna spend more than we make. And then the citizens who follow this closely will ask, why did you lie to us, why are you lying to us? These are logical questions, but dear citizens don't worry, they'll spend your money, they'll spend more than you can earn, and they'll make their Pear Forks and Games a situation that you won't end up even aware that they've even told you in public. The Prime Minister told you at the beginning of his presentation, we'll spend more than we earn. I appeal to you fellow citizens, this is your 136 billion kuna, yours. You have the right to ask questions, you have the right to monitor how your money is spent. I'll just remind the public that they still don't know how money is spent, they don't know until the end of the budget. What the Ministry of Finance has given you today is a rough budget. And I'm gonna try to make you paint, so you can understand how rough. It's like asking your spouse what you spent money on, and he says food, and then you ask him if it's canned or lobsters, and he says but it doesn't matter. You see in the budget subtitles and items, you don't see to the last level. Why? Because when they come out to you in public and say exactly in the lime they spend items on in the budget, then they're clear, then they're transparent, then there's no lurking. Come out with a full budget, so let's see what you spend our citizens' money on, what are you spending 140 billion kuna on, which is why you spend more than you're going to make? This is literally one budget, one government that's on its way out and that knows it. What's sad is that there will be so many skeletons left behind in the closet, that the heads of those who need to operate after them will hurt very much. Why? Just a week ago, in this House of Commons, they were accepted from your side of the Change, the addition of the 2018 budget with a deficit of 2.5 billion kuna. I'll remind you, you announced here a year ago that it won't be spent anymore, you spent 2.5 billion. Then you assured us that it would be all right, but, of course, now you came and said that the problem was Uljanik, you didn't know about Ulnik, you don't know anything, as usual, and then it's such a typical explanation of the Croatian administration. The problems you inherited are unsecured, they're standard sentences. Now, what's interesting? You also announced last year that next year you will have a surplus. You went out here today and you said you'd spend more, your budget plans, not 2.5 billion deficits, 4.2 billion kuna deficits. So what if you came to the public and said you'd spend a little more. Then how many billion would it be in a minus? Ten? Let me remind you, you came here to this High House at the end of 2017 and you said in your forecasts for 2019 that budget balance is planned, i.e. zero deficit, i.e., that we will not spend more lip than we earn. We expect a surplus in 2020 and 2021. Can you remember, dear President, what you went out with today in front of the Croatian public, you've come out that we're going to spend more, that you're only planning something next. I'll remind you of another thing you know very well. It is interesting that the World Bank does not say that the forecasts of GDP growth will be as you say. And honestly after all the lies that we could meet on your part, somehow my greater credibility has a World Bank. Mr. Honorable Prime Minister, you are the last to speak of modernism. Your contemporaryism is characterized by the fact that you will sell Croatia in this way. It's modernism. Modernism is when a budget deficit is proposed that then a well-intentioned observer will expect reform steps, he will expect a reason why the state should spend more because he ultimately expects something. I'm sorry, but in your budget, there's no sign of an opportunity to achieve those who want to do business, that they can function in this country, and that's not modernism. Modernism is not about sending 300 thousand people out. Because you don't give them the budget conditions to work, to make money in this society, to open other jobs for other people, but to send them out 300 thousand and say we fought for it. We fought to get them out of here. You left nothing in the budget to show that you will spend something but for good and that this Croatia will look better in 4 years, a more quality country in which people will want to return. Not the country people will want to leave. Right now, your situation is that in 2019, we are in a situation where we predict our gross growth of 2.9%, the expenditures of the state budget rise by 6.5%. But what best paints this proposal for the 2019 budget is the next couple of items, the inconsistency of planning revenue, that actually means that at one point you're saying that this is going to be, at another point you're saying it's going to be something else, so you're coming back, and in the end people don't even know what you're planning. You said, with rebalancing 2018, VAT revenues will be at 51.1 billion kn. Now that you couldn't agree on the rebalancing, is it because of the good or bad tourist season, it doesn't matter, everyone can make a mistake, it's 7.4% growth compared to 2017. But what is interesting in your proposal 2019. .g. you assume that VAT is going to be $51.8 billion, why? How come there's no growth? You're saying there's going to be growth, and you're saying it's going to be bigger growth than the World Bank tells you it's going to be, interesting. The EU funds, the second thing, you promised, you government representatives promised us that you would withdraw 13.6 billion kn for the 2018/11, 10.7. But it doesn't matter, there go the colorful lies again, the next year we're not 14 now we're going to 60 percent based on what? When your minister says they're technically operationally unprepared. So you're saying we're not pulling 10 or 13 now we're pulling 17 billion kn. You promised 13 and you couldn't, and now you're going to be 17. Fortunately, I'd love to, because that means Croatia will get 17 billion kn, but the fact is, you're not doing it. The fact is that you can withdraw 880 million kuna through the Ministry of Public Administration for public administration reform, explain to people why you haven't done it in a year and a half. Is it possible that because you define public administration with your electoral body, you deliberately don't want to do anything at all? Do you think people in Croatia are happy, when they need not for hours, but for days, weeks, months, years, waiting for documents. You think it's a positive entrepreneurial climate? When entrepreneurs can't get to the paper, but tell them to get to this, and get to that tent, you have a solution. You have the money that someone else is giving you to do, you don't even have to spend your own. You haven't worked in a year and a half. Third item, employee expenses, that's just beauty. You're saying that there's a 3 per cent increase in the mass of wages for the entire state apparatus, and that's a sign that reform steps are not in sight, why? The real sector has a structural labour deficit, while the public... Why don't you take advantage of the situation that is currently on the market, why don't you reform the public administration? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'll remind you again of the lie, and I can't call it anything but the real name, the lies you were talking about when you represented the 2018 budget just like you represented for 2019 today. In 2018, no wage growth was foreseen. Now, 2020, 2021, you did the same thing today when you gave us the budget and told us there would be no salary growth. Let me ask the MPs here now, and by the way, all the citizens who are following us, 2020 is an election year and you're famous for buying social peace for decades, you think there's really not going to be a salary increase? You don't think this is another lie yet? You don't think the deficit will be bigger? It'll be bigger. You'll spend more than you earn, more than they said you'd spend. Subsidies are just stories to themselves. You decided to give subsidies another 7% higher. So take companies that don't do well, take companies that do good business and give those who don't do good, zero sum games, so you'll punish those who do good, to give to those who don't work. I respect that there are strategic companies but explain to me one of the illogical things. It is illogical for me that we are the state in which the tourism sector participates with 20% of GDP and yet we stand out more and more subsidies for public carriers every year, for Croatia airlines, for Jadrolini, for HZ, explain to me how. And we have the tide of tourists, how come we give more every year? So when you look at it all, then I really don't understand what we can expect from you next year when you come here and give us colorful berries. The Ministry of Defence, I'll remind you that the total price of Israeli fighter aircraft with weapons and equipment was supposed to be 3.6 billion kuna, the payment deadline was 10 years, the MORH planned to allocate 360 million kuna annually. But we can see in this budget that this amount is increasing. So in 2020, 564 million kunas will be allocated, 2021. 581 million kuna. Is it 360 million or is it 580 million? Are we going to spend 3.6 billion kunas or are we going to spend a total of $5.5 billion? Well, I think citizens should know that. I'm not saying pro or vice versa, I'm saying that Croatian citizens need to know when you're changing items that are totalling over 2 billion kunas in 3 years and you haven't explained. The Ministry of Construction, a new item, increases subsidies 23.%, increases the prices of apartments and real estate in Zagreb 24.8%. You give subsidies to one family and she nets up to four years later in a minus. But, well, I'm sorry, that's what the HNS is up to, that's not what the Prime Minister's in charge of. And then we come to this, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. And I have to make this especially clear that citizens realize how much they don't really know what's going on in the country, how much they don't give us as parliamentary deputies, how much citizens don't know how to spend their 136 billion kunas. This ministry in the 2018 budget was one of the major beneficiaries of budget money, over 600 million kuna. In the proposal for a budget for 2019, it grows by 13.4% or 377 million. A billion kuna increase in two years. What is important are the individual rates of expenditure. Check this out, 40.1% more funds are forecasted for the reconstruction of the rolling stock than this year. Why? Well, this year you'll be investing 2.7 million kunas in the reconstruction of the fleet, but good. Check this out, Conto 426 immaterial-produced assets, cost increase 300%. Conto 323 costs for services increase 366%. Conto 43, other special purpose income, 159% increase. This ministry in 2018 has in certain parts of the budget such as other expenditures cost growth by 400% and you have no idea exactly what they spend it on because they don't write to you, they don't write to you what other expenditures mean to you, which means expenses for services, for special purposes. The only thing you can see is a train park. But so you don't see things, that's why they only give you headlines. But they don't give you what you spend it on. But on average, since I have to cut back on average, the increase in expenditure per ministry is 12.2%. In the end, I can only say that we can freely put something similar to what Dante said, to lose hope because those who want to start a job in Croatia to ensure the existence can lose hope, they can lose hope for those who pay public administration to get a quality service, they will not get it, they can lose hope for those who believe that in their youth they will have a quality health system. Such a proposal for a budget that leads to the further emigration of young people, the awakening of the administration, the further collapse of our country, cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106395	You're losing hope you're coming in... The same word, you who enter. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Time's up, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now we have Mr. Oleg Butkovic who will speak for the government for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106396	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, the Honorable Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow ministers. So here, prompted by some discussions in the opening part of Prime Minister Plenkovic's and Minister Maric's presentation, there was a lot of talk about investment in roads, infrastructure and the need for such investments in certain areas throughout the Republic of Croatia. So I wanted to give you a summary of all the major infrastructure projects and all the things that the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure does at this point, so that maybe you, too, the parliamentary representatives, would give you some information and just that you have a review of all these investments, and then in the debates, it might be easier for you to propose all of those projects that, of course, are important for all those areas where you come from. First, the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure is currently in motion, which has agreed on an operational programme of cohesion competitiveness and on an instrument to connect Europe with an investment worth around 14 billion kuna. Which means that somewhere at this point we have signed a little more than 70% of the contract in the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion and somewhere over 90% of us are in the Connecting Europe Facility, and now there are major infrastructure projects that you already know, that's the Pelješki Bridge, which goes into 4 phases, that's a whole series of other projects, from the D 403, for which in a few days we will also sign in Rijeka a grant contract. These are projects, large railway projects, Dugo Selo – Križevci, which is being implemented, it is Zaprešić – Zabok, which is the competition, which has come out, the Treaty is signed and this project is going to be built, it is Vinkovci – Vukovar, for which we have provided grants, and these days there is a competition for a large railway project, which will connect Zagreb with the Hungarian border, that is Koprivnica – Križevci – the Hungarian border, total values of over 300 million EUR. Of the other projects, two weeks ago we opened works on the Istrian Ipsilon, a project worth about 160 million euros. And of course, we're talking about phase two B2. And also, we have secured and the competition will be opened this year for the continuation of the PC Corridor, which the Prime Minister spoke of, and somewhere in February there will be a government decision on the financing of the project. Talks are being held with international credit institutions, it will likely be the EBDR, so the competition is being opened in 2019 and it is moving with the construction of those 20 and some km towards Bela Manastir. Of the other major projects we go to the purchase of new trains, 22, the same from the European Funds. It's a billion-dollar project and 200 million kuna. And it also invests in railway road crossings, the Lika railway and the railway that goes to Sisak, means everything the HZ infrastructure from regular funds does. So, what I'm saying is that big projects are going and they're actually coming true. As for other major road projects, we have the biggest traffic problem today in the Republic of Croatia by the number of vehicles Split i.e. Solin, Split – Omis, a multimodal platform for which documentation is produced. For a part of this stock are competitions out, so that part around Omis and the bypass Split that will go in 2019. The rest is heading towards a new operational program. And I also want to mention when it comes to Split-Dalmatia County, in that south of Croatia, the Imotski-Zagvozd road, the Dicma bypass, etc., all of these are projects for which documentation is produced, as well as documentation for the Podravska fast road is produced, according to Virovitica, according to which, until Bjelovar, according to Virovitica, road towards Koprivnica, for all of this, Croatian roads produce project documentation because at this moment we are not ready, but we are doing everything that, here, Mr Ante Sanader says also tunnel Kozjak, I can't list them all, but we are preparing all the documentation to be ready for the next operational period and of course, we are doing everything that here, Mr Ante Sanader, Mr. Ante Sanader says also tunnel Kozjak, I can't list them all of them, but we're prepared to be prepared for the next operational period and, part of the projects to finance from Croatian roads. In addition, we invest around EUR 80 million in ports, 28 ports in the Adriatic, we have launched the project also through the operational programme, free buses etc. And that's what, here, briefly, I'm, I could still talk, but I hope there's a chance. [[/Intruder: Thank you, Mr. Minister's time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106397	Thank you very much, but you have a lot of replicas, so you'll be able to continue the conversation. It's Mr. Bull's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106398	You've been telling ministers all along how much you've signed and arranged the projects. How much have you achieved, haven't we heard? Where did you come from? Every year the same thing as a parrot repeats. Just now, Prime Minister Sanader did not want to answer this question about the telephony operator. Tele operators only break laws in the Republic of Croatia. In Serbia, even outside the EU, they pay the right to serve. Why do they break the laws in the Republic of Croatia, and what makes it convenient? What are those interests? Which is a dynasty, which is suitable only in the Republic of Montenegro for telepliers not only to pay the right of service and to have twice as much profit, but in December, throughout Europe, even in Serbia, in Montenegro, they need a building permit, they pay the right of service, and not in the Republic of Croatia. What kind of interest groups are these? Who, which is why the prime minister didn't answer my question, and you said you'd answer. Where's the answer? Well, it's not a dynasty... ? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So this isn't Sanader's government? [[Intruder: Thank you, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106399	Mr. Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106400	Well, here, Mr. Bull, first answer your first question. We signed, I repeat, over 70%. All these projects are being implemented and implemented. These are not projects that can be completed in one year, the implementation of such projects takes two to three years and they go their course, the competitions are being discussed and by me, here I am optimistic that we will end all this at the time when it comes to traffic. As for the teleoperator, I really don't know what kind of group you're talking about, I really don't know, I don't have that kind of information, but what I can say is that we're in the talks and my ministry are covering and that part with all the teleopers to make it easier for them to start a strong and strong investment cycle, so that they can accomplish everything you've said.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106401	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106402	Dear Minister Butkovic, here I am announcing that I will refer to the state budget a number of amendments concern Sisak, meaning the electoral unit in which I was elected, but it concerns both my hometown and the meetings you participated in, namely 27 January 2017, so a traffic study was presented, so a meeting of all traffic issues of the town of Metkovic was organised and the announced settlement of Metkovic's merger issue on the highway. To date, absolutely nothing has been done, Prime Minister Sanader often came to Metkovic during these local elections, then the city was important, it was important for the bridge, but here is the Prime Minister Sanader and you and Minister Butkovic forgot about Metkovic's merger on the highway, so I ask you what do you think to do about it?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106403	I would warn Mr. Bulj first, just warn, just warn, I would figuratively warn you as you say and Mr. Grmoy that our prime minister's name is Mr. Plenkovic, he has his name and his last name and not to say that when he was previously warned by the president of this assembly because he called you Mr. Bulj, Mr. Ambassador, they tell me, I was not there. And now you're going to tell me on the basis of which article you're raising a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106404	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President, is based on 283 where you say 238. Excuse me, 238. [[Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] Yes [[Let's check 283. How? 238./]] It was a lapse, I don't know why Mr. President, they insult Sanader, it's a labusal figure. [[238. What?]] Well Mr. Here's Plenkovic says I'm a log, so that's figurative, that's how I remind him And if he reminds Sanader there's nothing to be angry about, so Sanader made him up to be angry with Oleg Butkovic all of them, I don't see any reason to be angry so they came out of the same incubator, so there's no problem, I don't see why the anger and why the chatter [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Prime Minister, you don't have to listen to the Prime Minister...../Speakers speak in the same voice./... [[Okay, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106405	You give me permission to call you figuratively Mr. Petrov, for example. Okay? Okay, so can Mr. Bernardich. Okay? Okay, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Butkovic, here's your answer. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106406	Here's a respected representative about Sisak I mentioned in a brief presentation since we didn't have enough time to get the track to Sisak restored, it's an investment worth about 60 million kuna, that it's going to connect a road that should connect on the highway around Sisak projectors and in this term will be called a tender and start building it. So Sisak is not forgotten. As for Metkovic, I was, I wasn't at a meeting in Metkovic, the meeting was here in Zagreb, and then I supported the mayor's initiative to build this joint road, but you know it's a need to create a project documentation, we can't do something people without paper, I think we have to have both patience and time to make these papers, so let's try and close the financial structure, but that's what I support.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106407	Thank you very much, Mr. Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106408	I thank the Vice-President, Your Honor, thank you and for this clarification, I think you should have heard a lot of projects going especially in Slavonia and Baranja. What I ask you to accept and the amendment, i.e. two amendments to the two projects that I think are the key which I have mentioned, which is primarily the construction of the fast road Zagreb, Bjelovar, Virovitica, Miholjac, Osijek to put an item in the budget for the production of project documentation, as well as denivelation or construction of overpasses on the popular Chepinska street in Osijek. We think it is extremely necessary to further anticipt both funds and funding opportunities and to start project documentation in order to be ready to open up all possibilities in order to finance these key, vital projects for Slavonia, Baranja and the city of Osijek. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106409	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106410	Podravska fast road, road towards Bjelovar, road towards Virovitica and road towards Koprivnica is in traffic terms behind this platform around Split, in traffic terms certainly one of the highest priorities. In this operational period which ends in 2020 or n+3 is whether we have no road space to finance something from European funds anymore. Therefore, it was a guide to the Croatian Roads for all the priority shares to prepare documentation from studies, ideas solutions, etc., outcomes of the permits so that they would be prepared to take care of it by Croatian roads. You make the amendment we'll take a look at it and surely accept it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106411	Thank you, too. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106412	Thank you, Vice-President, Your Honor, we have a problem that rarely I remember when the last time he was Minister of Transport Slavonac, Minister of Transport, was mostly Dalmatia, Zagorje. Podravska cesta is an extremely important road, why is this section up to Farkaševec, working on access roads towards Bjelovar, but if the stock is already ready when it will be put on the market? The northern bypass of Virovitica shares from Suhopolje according to this merger on that northern bypass is also taking too long, and I am aware from my previous answer to my colleague Curaju that the design documentation itself will take a long time to solve property legal relations. But please, as Minister, do everything possible to get this stock done as soon as possible, it's about people's lives, it's about big transit traffic, we call that road Podravsk the road of death.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106413	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106414	Your Honor, I'm a native Dalmatian, but otherwise I'm from the Croatian Primor, from Novi Vinodolski, so here's one time the Minister of Transport is from this river area. And as for your response, the Farkasevic will be open when the county road is finished because it was a problem with the amount of traffic and freight traffic that couldn't transport that county road and we found the means to help ZUC build that road. As soon as it's done, we'll put it on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106415	Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you have singled out capital transport projects which will be co-financed during this period for which we are bringing budgets and budget projections, and I especially thank you for the projects of the Government, you, the Ministry, the Croatian Roads at completion, that is, at work, for the construction of the Pelješko Bridge, which will mark the first year of membership of the Croatian European Union. But what I particularly want to single out is a project to build ports that function in the maritime integration of Croatian islands. So, for example, for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, there are several ports in the project, such as Vela Luka, Polacište port in Korcula, Luka Perna in Orebić and port... The construction of these projects, worth more than 300 million kuna, will eventually complete the project of transport integration of the island of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this sense, I certainly support this project and your efforts to build ports that will qualityly connect all Croatian islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106417	Thank you. Mr. Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106418	Dear Representative, as regards the project of reconstruction and construction and reconstruction of new ports in the Adriatic and existing ports, I am personally pleased that for the first time we have started to finance such projects from European funds. 28 is such projects on the Croatian coast and I call it a Renaissance on the Adriatic because after a long, long time, the first time is a big and strong investment cycle precisely for these and such projects. In addition, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has increased national funds from 25 million to 65, which also combines forces with these European funds to facilitate co-financing of port administrations so that they are practically financed in 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106419	Thank you, too. Mr. Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106420	Thank you very much, here is the respected minister, so here is a Slavonac to praise what is done, as far as the sea is concerned, means not only capital projects but also this about our island ports, if I am not wrong, the first project that was signed was just one smaller port on the island of Pasman, meaning Tkon, which was but, other than these large capital projects there is, above all, hopefully in the following year the completion of this railroad, the longings as it is called, Zagreb, Sveti Ivan Žabno-Bjelovar. But I would ask you not to forget the viaduct of the, the viaduct of Krindy on the track between the meaning of Bano's Jaruga over Daruvar, according to Virovitica, so that the cargo traffic that would resuscitate means that economic activity could be opened. But also fast roads what you said, this part around the Farkashec, but the design is still according to Virovitica, which is extremely important for all of us there. But also these small roads, let's say the reconstruction of the road Grubisno Polje, Končanica, Daruvar, a state road with extremely dense traffic where through the finals we still don't have any means of walking trails or anything which, of course, is very much for the safety of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106421	Time. Mr. Butkovic, go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106422	Your Honor. All these proposals have been discussed at several meetings both with the mayor and with you. Here is what I can say that Croatian roads and HZ infrastructure will do everything possible to put them into realisation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106423	Mr. Lackovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106424	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, I am aware that you are very well aware of the problem of every part of Croatia and so is this one and this one that has been mentioned several times in the debate and this is the new fast sub-level highway. I just want to tell you, this stock that's mentioned, so according to Virovitica, and this could really start in 2019, at least half the shares where property-legal relations are solved, but these are the sins of some previous governments, and that should be under sin. What matters is that these roads are not safe. You had it in one of the small municipalities of St. Ivan Frogno, in a month 10 dead on the road. So you don't have it on the road that's on Dalmatina. What is important is to create preconditions and know now if it is determined that the project documentation for the Ilock Ptuj road is to be made that it will be the one to apply in the next programming period to EU funds and not to re-document and again... Some priority part, though we know that this is a European corridor that they would accept no. 1. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106425	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106426	Mr. Minister, so let me just say this, I also responded to the current morning, we had a meeting in Koprivnica with the mayor and all parliamentary representatives from that area and we discussed the most important transport projects, and this railway project, Križevci-Koprivnica, the Hungarian border whose competition will be called in a few days. So besides that road to Koprivnica, we agreed to go phase, to build as a fast road, all the activities were actually arranged. The only thing we're preparing for is this road towards Djurđevec, projected, spatially planned, etc., to be ready for a new operational period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106427	We're done with the replicas and we're moving on with the clubs. In front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will first speak Mrs. Macar and then Mr. Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106428	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We can really talk a lot about the budget, we can look at it from different sides, everyone would like our priorities, our demands, our wishes. However, opportunities are one thing and our desires are another. The planned GDP growth in 2018 is 2.9%. Maybe it doesn't seem like much to us and we'd probably be happy if it was more, so we'd have more resources for some of our projects, which we'd like to realize. But what's still very important is that when you grow by 2.9%, the public debt is reduced simultaneously by 3 index points. So we have a plan for 2019 to cut from 74.6% to 71.6% while simultaneously planning a reduction in 2020 and 2021 each year by 3 index points. Let me just point out that in 2015, we had a share of the public debt of 83.7% and we're planning 65.6% for 2021. I believe that this information is good and the direction in which this budget is made and in which the state is led to be fine. In 2019, we have planned revenues from the state budget of 136 billion kn. The biggest revenues are expected from tax revenues, and we have this growth that is expected, and it is precisely growth from economic activity, and it is good that we expect to increase in tax revenues even though we have, now and the third round of tax reform, and that we have each time dispersed our economy and our citizens. The total discharge is at a level of 6 billion kuna and if we assume that VAT has been reduced in 2017 and that it is planned for 2019 and is expected to be higher income than VAT, it means that these measures have had an impact on consumption and that tax reform has gone in the right direction. Also when we talk about the economy and income of the profit tax, we have the same growth, even though we have a reduction and a disbursement of our shareholders, we know that the profit tax rate was 20% for these large ones was reduced to 18%, while for everyone else who makes up 85% in the structure of the subjects, therefore, those small ones, it decreased to 12%. And all that did was make that profit tax grow. And what is still planned is a major increase, which is an increase in aid, i.e. the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. We at the HNS sincerely hope that's what's gonna happen. Because if we're gonna pull this dynamic like we've done before, it's not gonna be good. But I am sure that projects are prepared at all levels, from local self-government and beyond, and that we will finally have this planned and long-awaited growth of projects, financed by the EU in 2019. As for expenditure, we also have an increase in expenditure, and most of it concerns pensions and pension incomes. We hear it all the time, and we agree that pensions are still low. And that you can't live decently from them. And if this is enough, probably many of us will conclude that it isn't, but that a larger increase can still be planned within this growth of GDP, it can't. Significant funds in expenditures are also planned to increase demographic recovery measures, we have a child allowance, an additional maternity leave fee, equipment and, of course, there is a very important demographic measure and subsidisation of housing loans, which is increasing by 38 million, or, regardless of the criticism and what we once thought was not a demographic measure, but best to ask 5200 of our young families, which, through 2 years, have right through these subsidized loans solved their housing issue. And had even more resources for a more efficient system of science and education. So, the curricula reform, and there, we have 310 million kn, which makes us extremely pleased at the HNS that in this way, is recognized exactly this reform project that we've all been talking about for a long time and we're not going to start. In the portfolios, for which the HNS is primarily responsible in the planning of this budget, we were led to make it reformal, developmental and to promote the standard of living of our citizens. Is he reform? I also believe that on the basis of this data, which is right here in this budget, for these two ministries, which is the Ministry of Science and Education, and the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, it is indeed reformal. Because 130 million kn is secured, for reforming education under the budget, or that is the growth of projected revenue, for as much as 96 million kn. So, almost 100 million from the 30 that were in the budget earlier. Then at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, 520 million were provided for information and digitisation, i.e. reform, spatial land administrations. Part of the funds is secured by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and part by the State Geodetic Administration. In addition, there will be 100 million kuna from the EU Fund, from the loan of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. That this budget is developmental, it also says that nearly 9 million kuna has been secured from the budget of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Organization for Energy Reconstruction, to which another 200 million kunas from the EU funds for the same purpose are linked. I will point out here that the Ministry of Construction was one of the few ministries that withdrew more EU funds this year than was planned. We believe that it will be agreed with the European Union and that in 2019, the energy reconstruction of family homes that will be financed by EU funds will be much simpler, because so far as it has been an energy reconstruction for public buildings and more housing, the documentation itself has been quite complicated, if we go to a competition to be the owners of houses, we have to simplify it so that they can manage to bring this project to an end. Today there were talks about our teachers, about our healthcare professionals, and that they need to be provided for more, here we have seen that an agreement has been reached today and the way they will be paid in the future, that is, by the dynamics of their wages. But regardless of that, just for our teachers, within the Ministry of Science and Education, for the first time, 26 million kunas were provided for their award, therefore, precisely for the award of our teachers, which should achieve excellence within the education system. 6.5 million kuna is provided for membership in CERN, we know what it brings and what it enables Croatian science and industry that can now participate in the most advanced projects in the European Union. And the very growth of the standard of living, what I was talking about at the beginning of what was all done to relieve our citizens as part of the third round of this tax reform, we have at the Ministry of Science and Education an increase of 45 million kuna for equal availability of secondary education, so a total of 337 million kuna for public interurban transportation of high school students, so 45 million kuna more. Also, we have secured those 80 million kunas for subsidising housing loans for young people in the budget of the Ministry of Construction, and 30 million kuna for municipal projects, also in the budget of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. This will achieve that just the poorest municipalities can also provide a communal standard for their citizens regardless of their original incomes. And these projects that I've listed are really very important to us in HNS, and that's why we're going to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106429	Mr. Churay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106430	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, just once again on behalf of the Club, let's look back at this today's proposal for a budget for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021. So what's important, yes, and what we can see through the last few budgets that the government is going with always a conservative proposal, cautious, where it doesn't collapse into any, or indicators that may be good, or incomes that aren't somewhat certain. We see that both this and last year has resulted more than planned, that the funds are well spent and that, in fact, something that is the continuation of the policy so far. What's good, even though we had in projections for this year that when we talk about the share in gross social product and real growth, that personal consumption is 2.8, we saw on the rebalancing that it's actually 3.5. We are now planning 3.4, again less than this year, and we can know for sure, Malta not mathematically, that it will be more given the tax reform that followed, given the reduction in VAT that was in the package of tax reforms and all other effects that would produce it. But that's good, because that consumption, unlike what we had 10 years ago, is not based on the personal borrowing of our fellow citizens. How did we have a situation 10 years ago? The real standard grew, it grew so that man might have had 500 kuna more. What was he doing? On those 500 kunas, he took a loan for the car to 1500, 1000 and really lived weaker, worse, with less money, the truth and God was driving in a new car. GDP grew, consumption grew, everything was wonderful until a certain moment when it fell. So this growth here that is projected is not based on borrowing, both states and personal, but on the real purchasing power that is growing. But it doesn't grow fast enough, we're all clear here. So, it's not that, that, that pace that we might want, we have to not be who the others are, we have to be far faster than the others to reach them. And that's the goal of this government. I say once again, I have said here countless times about this pay phone, but no single measure can bring it. Not a single law. Here sublimation of everything they do.../ The speaker doesn't understand. The departments in the form of budgets. When we talked about today's due business and any perceptions, any tax laws, any pensions, whatever I'm neither of them will make a difference. But when we put everything on when we do everything when on all sides of 50, 60, 70 different measures, then maybe we have a chance to speed up this development right now. Here, what's good in this budget is safe when we talk about the spending side, and we're talking about the projects, we're talking about billions, we're talking about the withdrawal of the European money. This expenditure was absolutely welcomed, the increase was welcomed for the funding and co-financing of these projects for nearly 200 million kuna. The VAT mentioned as almost does not grow anything, 1.3% is therefore foreseen from 51.1 to 51.8 but we must note that we have reduced VAT to food that will of course result in VAT revenues, medicines and other tax discharge effects sure that it is not the same in direct income when we speak in exact figures that there can be so much growth, because it should be observed within relative and not absolute. Because if all the other rates were VAT and everything else, of course, that would have been a much bigger growth. Certainly, today through some.../incomprehensible/... budget users and those who rely on this budget to and always have opportunities more and needs actually more, the possibilities are limited and it is always the harmony balance between what can be realistic and what is best used and what will bring the fastest growth and that added value, it is actually the art that we are discussing here today that we are talking about how to use limited resources in the best way to give the best possible effect, not everything, so I think there is no one here who would say anything that does not want to do for any end of this Croatia. From my Slavonia and Baranja to like, Dalmatia whatever Zagorje, of course everyone would like to have the best conditions. It should work where it is more meaningful to bring more added value and, of course, more evenly deployed for all parts of our Croatia and in this direction I have announced several amendments at least for the part to be seen at the level, to be considered, to want to be run into something to put an item to do project documentation. Some big projects may seem impossible, but a little by little, like I said. We have so I will say the word for a 20-year problem in Osijek denivelation of St. Leopold Street, Bogdan Mandić, Chepinska, which makes traffic chaos. I hope that by including and accepting, as the minister said he would accept this amendment too, that the project documentation and the finding of different models of funding for closure and with local communities will be really started and with all the actors and stakeholders of the project that will, of course, benefit all of them. What is certainly good about the CNS itself is a colleague, Makar, who pointed out that we have provided and let's say three criteria of funding and for reforms, both for development and for promoting the growth of living standards exactly when we talk about reforms of course and in the Ministry of Education when we talk about a total amount of nearly half a billion, and in particular more than 130 million kuna for the curricular reform that is going on. So on that trail the funds are secured for the future, for development and for what is needed, there may not be an effect for the next one, two, three years, but we all know that the future is what awaits us and what we have to do today to have a better tomorrow. When we talk about construction, of course, excellently used funds for energy recovery, where we provide with additional resources the possibility of almost over a billion kunas to be used and the construction operation is employed, of course, and that they are also working to save energy consumption, and that I am not saying what it means for our citizens today and when the possibility is opened for both family houses and private houses, and not just public buildings and multi-state buildings as it is now, as is a clear example that it does, that it works and it is a smart way of managing. Also, the subsidy is 80 million.../incomprehensible/... credit for young people therefore I think it is very clear, there has been a lot of objections to the abolition of that tax exemption for the first real estate, however, when that tax is reduced by 5 to 3 and when the first property of the state is subsidized for the first 5-6 years then that difference is countless times larger. You've had to pay 3% for a million kuna real estate before, now you've got to pay the taxes and the subsidies for the first 5 years go to you over 100,000 kuna, so almost 3 times more is given to young people through that measure than it was through tax exemption. And I think that's how people bond to stay with real estate that means smart and demographic policy as well as of course I'm not talking about all those economic effects. So I think, of course, there will always be room for more and that's what we all have to strive for, but also the HNS, as my colleague Macar said she would accept this proposal and I hope that the amendments will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106431	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the Government, the word will be taken by the Honorable Minister Gabriela Žalac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106432	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives, let me briefly refer to the budget when we talk about European funds about what you have been saying as well. When we talk about the Slavonia Project and everything that is now in some way indicators in regional development it would be important to inform you about the picture as it really is. We found 9% of the agreed European funds when we entered into office, now we're at 60% 6.3 billion euros. The projects are agreed on by it means 76% of the EUR 10.7 billion is out in competitions, which is 8.1 billion, so in terms of the funds that are contracted that in some way give end-users everything they need to give and that is to increase the level of GDP in each part of Croatia. When we talk about how we give all the data to the council representatives 14.5%, so pay off the end-users that run the way the projects are implemented, those 9.5% of the money we never hide the data for, we always say that. Let me inform you that we certainly have over EUR 90 million more to verify by the end of this year. I send the statement of expenditure and I personally sign it, in this month I send it to the European Commission, so I don't think there's any concern about it, in which way we'll verify the funds, just as we did last year. Indeed, this great coordination work that we do at government level has yielded results and yielded, therefore, fruit. That, when we talk about this coordination where you several of your parliamentary deputies spoke, which is co-ordination with mayors, mayors and commissioners. Here, if any government has had good communication so far, that's this government, here comes a new meeting of all the mayors and the entire government, they had a meeting and development agencies with me last week, strengthening capacity at regional, local level, what we did through administrative capacities. At the national level for the first time, we made the first 27.4., a very symbolic date, and in 2017 we made the decision on employment in the bodies of the Control System of the European Funds. I must also tell you that, back to us in the crucial 2012 year when a decision was made on how the Republic of Croatia should look because of a greater allotment of the European Funds in this financial perspective, so that is exactly what my Slavonia has done, when we talk about a map of regional support and everything that entrepreneurs need to achieve there. It's 50% less funds because of a decision that we can't change by 2023. By February 2019, we will submit a new division of the Republic of Croatia to NUTS - 2 regions, which will be much more just and much more concrete, which will be focused precisely on the economic theory of how development should be affected and development managed in the Republic of Croatia. 800 million kunas of funds invested in regional development have never occurred so far. When we talk about the budget, here, in agreement, so, colleagues Marić and me, the original revenues that we have made for the EU Fund for Co-financing of the income tax project 1.5%, which is what we lost, which is what we have brought back to regional self-government units, and on top of that we have provided 200 million kunas and 260 with a rebalancing for projects at regional local level, you can ask all local community stakeholders on the ground, in which way these projects have just been prepared and implemented. I think absolutely there will be no problem in the budget next year providing more funding if necessary because the EU Project Co-financing Fund should not be a problem at any point in time. When we talk about what our budget, our ministry, looks like, it must be 24.5% more than in 2019. This speaks all in favour of the government's policy and the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia. When we talk about the Slavonia Project, then you need to know that over 8 billion kunas invested in projects, and in particular, given the development agreement signed for the first time, and all of what you've generated here today and said the development agreement is a mechanism for harmonising the regional local level with the state and that's something where we invested over 700 million kuna in Slavonia for economic, first of all, projects. The next session will be dedicated to two other topics in Pakrac, I think the support of the European Commission and the World Bank even speaks about how well this project works and how it works. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106433	We've got more replicas. She's the first respected representative of Ljubica Maksimchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106434	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, here, I'm glad you took your word and spoke about this project, Slavonia, which has been discussed so far. I, of course, must commend this project as Slavonka, and you yourself have said that 8.1 billion kuna has already been agreed, of which my county has contracted 885 million kuna. I'll just list some more important projects, it's irrigation Orubice 25 million kuna, Daily Hospital in Slavonski Brod 40 million kuna, 11 million kuna primary health care, energy recovery hospitals and schools around 108 million kuna, the town of Slavonski Brod is available at 31 million EUR for strategic projects, and for projects intended for entrepreneurs, two entrepreneurial incubators, the Museum of Tambura and House Brlic, warmly leads and, of course, welcome this decentralisation where cities decide on projects, where they are given some implementing functions and the Slavonia project, I hope that we will stand side by side with richer counties in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106435	The answer of the Honorable Minister Zhaozak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106436	Thank you, dear Parliamentarian. Here, as you pointed out yourself, we will now have a session in Pakrac on 19.12., where we will show all the projects that have been funded from the Slavonia Project, when it speaks to the left side of the piar which is what it is, since I come from implementation, I am very proud of what we have done so far, and especially of what we will do in our Slavonia. When we talk about how much money we have invested and in project documentation, we have provided 50 million kuna for the preparation of major strategic projects for the next financial period. In agreement with the World Bank, we are creating, so also what should be in the perception of the new financial perspective, whether the Slavonia programme or the regional operational programme, we will negotiate with the EU. However, I think that we should have completed projects and really respect the needs of the field, and in particular take care of the economy and what should be done in the value chain when we talk about the next, therefore, period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106437	Thank you. The next replicas of the respected representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106438	Dear Minister, you and I are coming from Slavonia. We should be telling the truth here. I'm interested in one thing. Which users have the advantage that comes from Slavonia in terms of points or specific criteria in any competition that you put in the table of the Slavonia Project. Tell me, kindergarten, when he's running from Lower Miholjc, how many points does he get ahead of his Imotsky kindergarten? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106439	The answer of the Honorable Minister Zhaozak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106440	Dear MPs, if anyone here is telling the truth, it is you who constantly deceives the Croatian public with all the information you offer and through your representative questions you get, of course, answers, but when we talk about the Slavonia project, you really show how much you don't know. How much you don't know and how hard it is actually, when you start with your populist speeches here in the Assembly to talk about something that really unfortunately as my colleague Tolusic's former deputy, you still don't know and you're not able to understand at all. So when we talk about the Slavonia project, anyone who works really with us in this process, you can see what it looks like and how the points are done and what we've done. I'm sorry that you as a lady who comes from Slavonia don't support what the government is doing, I think our citizens need to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106441	She has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106442	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, please protect us from this insult, so I know exactly what I'm saying. I'm well-acquainted, not that I have no idea, and I'm asking the minister to answer the question of how many childcare kindergartens she's running for get more points than the one in Imotski. So, a very specific question, a very clear answer, no, please. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106443	Okay, I'm assessing that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured, so we're going to go to the next line, and that's the esteemed representative of Branko Greek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. The whole time we've actually been listening from you, not from parliamentary representatives, but from you that someone made a mistake because Zagreb left behind, Zagreb has left the possibility of using EU funds. I ask you the same question for you, which unit of regional self-government is currently the first on the list of successes of using EU funds?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106445	The answer of the Honorable Minister Zhaozak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106446	Dear Greek MP, my intention was clear in what I just said, unfortunately you then made such a decision that made Slavonia and other counties of former Pannonian Croatia lost 50% of their support in the economy. No member state has a capital of some surrounding countries, so the county. I think it's time for a change, and I'm sorry that by 2023, I can't change your decision. Unlike me, you haven't consulted with the mayors or anyone, but you've made that decision overnight, you've politically published it in the morning list 30 8. In 2012, something completely different was programmed. Also, you must know, the City of Zagreb is now among the first top 3 of those who use the European Funds, they could have used without that decision and in a very different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106447	Thank you, thank you, I hope you haven't done any damage to your colleagues' Rules of Procedure. Okay, buddy Greek, we can't talk from the bench, we can't talk from the bench. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106448	Thank you, Your Honor. The respected minister has on several occasions announced the launch of a broad-based Internet competition. I do not have to tell all of us how important this is, optics is a necessary prerequisite for the development of a general economy in Croatia and many times it has been announced. Since the beginning of last year, and then this year, the last one was the 31st. On the 10th and the day no competition is called today, I don't know why it is calculating, I would ask you a concrete answer, why you are constantly canceling the start of a tender for the development of broadband internet, and we know that units of local self-government have prepared 65 sprays, on which you could apply for a procedure and withdraw money from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106449	The answer of the Honorable Minister Zhaozak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106450	Thank you very much for that question. And I am not satisfied that the tender has not yet been published, however, what I have to take into account in this particular case is that these programmes that were made at regional and local level should not have been in such a way or programmed at all, unfortunately because of the criteria of competitions that did not correspond at all to what was adopted after 5, unfortunately, years in relation to when we had to talk about it, it is up to us now that before we publish the criteria that will be equal to all, which will not therefore do any justice in the context of using this priority that relates to broadband Internet and Broadband, there is still so much resources that we need, not as much as it is intended, you also know very well, indeed, we find any possible solution that we do not have any later problems in implementation, that we have no correction and anything like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106451	Thank you, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106452	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear minister, first of all, I would like to really commend the Slavonia project, which finally managed to run the wheel in Slavnia after 25 years to rotate primarily in investment cycles, first of all in the development of infrastructure and thank all the ministers involved in this part. I would just like to say one note, and this was also at one of the first sessions of this very Council, unfortunately not all units of local self-government that went directly into the project in Slavonia, and yet I pray that there is one possibility that these units of local self-government are also running for certain projects, but also I would like to commend your ministry on the withdrawal of EU funds, but also on the basis of a decision by the Government to open a tender under the Programme for the financing of local infrastructure and rural development projects, in areas populated members of national minorities in which 15 million kuna was reserved in this year on the initiative of the Club, the Assembly Club of National Minorities, of course, plus 3, I hope that in the following year we will have an increase in these funds, so please here about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106453	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Zhaozak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106454	Thank you very much for your support for the Slavonia project. We will certainly continue at the same pace in cooperation with all, therefore, fellow ministers whom I wish to thank as well because this is not just the work of our Ministry but of our entire government. When we talk about this, the competition that has been called for national minorities is also foreseen in the 2019 budget. I think that on this trail, absolutely and in accordance with the programme, so, the national minorities that our ministry also has a certain role to play, we should insist on it and continue, what suffers me personally this year is that we started to prepare late, I hope that the projects will be implemented to the best extent possible on time, and that all of us together will, of course, benefit from that small local unit. What you're saying is I'm aware, we're taking care of a wider area than Slavonia, and I think we're about to introduce ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106455	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative, Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106456	Here, thank you, Vice President. Well, there's a lot of talk here today about the Slavonia project, and I'm not going to get into how much it's really, really going to be realized. But we also have a mayoral initiative from the northern counties, which includes my Krapina-Zagorska County, unfortunately I do not see projects that refer to northern Croatia, specifically in the budget, of course I will try to change it through amendments. Here's one of the projects I'm going to support through the amendments is the ZES Science and Educational Entertainment Center. One project that you have given me as the Ministry of Regional Development has given me your support, so in this sense what I want to point out is too small an amount that has been allocated to mountainous and mountainous areas in this budget there are no concrete programmes, unlike, for example, there are no laws yet, so the law has not yet been adopted in contrast to the likes of the Law on Islands di we have a much larger amount, we have concrete measures and also try to increase this amount, I will also, in that sense, be making amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106457	Thank you. The answer of the Honorable Minister Zhaozak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106458	Thank you very much. As you know, I will begin from the end of the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, in December here in the second reading in the Croatian Parliament. It's an increase in funds compared to last year by some 42% compared to what we had and we have to take care of what we did through the Finance Act as well but, in fact, here's what you suggest to the amendments if you think and think you need something. Tomorrow we have a thematic session of the Committee on Regional Development on the topic of mountain-mounted and assisted area. When we talk about how northwestern Croatia, here are the mayors who were all at my meeting last week, including mayors from northwestern Croatia, the Zagreb County joined them to talk about what the project would look like north, means that they would prepare, I know about the ZES project, I know from the Mayor of Kolar, so we'll still discuss it. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106459	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106460	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers full of support to you, the Government and the Slavonia Project, regardless of all the criticisms you are experiencing, from those who have had the opportunity to make decisions when they were ministers, deputies etc., it just seems to them to look at the figure and tell them what it is, billions and billions but in realisation it really takes a lot of effort and knowledge to make it happen. We saw what they knew, their budgets ended up mostly half of what they planned, so I'm happy with what I said in the budget rebalancing that the Ministry of Regional Development this year is asking for more funding for the first time, so it's working on the benefit of people regardless of all these criticisms that come in terms of exploiting funds because when we compare ourselves now and from a few years ago when they ran simple numbers don't lie, everything is clear as day.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106461	The answer of the esteemed MP, Mr. Gristle. [[Would you stop throwing it out of the bench, please...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106462	Dear Representative Boric, you are deeply aware of how much we worked, for example, on the Island Act, which has been made, which will be done, I really think the indicators speak for themselves. We are now, very happy to announce by the end of this year what these growing curves look like, when we talk about European funds, when we talk about regional development and when we talk about what our 2019 plan really is for 2019, we have a vision, a goal and I think we should work in this very spirit, not taking too much care of ourselves but really doing and doing results for our citizens what is most important, and that is growth and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106463	Thank you very much. We will now move on with the clubs and it will be SDP's Club of Representatives, in the name of which the respected representative Davor Bernardic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106464	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary, assistant ministers, some ministers, should be said that in 2018, the year of serious warnings to the government. More and more indicators show that the Croatian economy is slowing down and that the government shows its inability to respond to these challenges every day. In fact, in the 2018 rebalancing process, the government acknowledged that the economic growth rate would be less than planned. Two whole seven instead of two whole nine percent, due to smaller investments and lower exports. We are also witnessing what is worrying that industrial production is falling. In eight out of ten months we have negative rates and the third quarter even minus one and a half percent. What we are also particularly concerned about is the most promising and fastest growing tourism sector so far slows down, and competition in the Mediterranean increases. And all at the same time, the government is attacking this sector with new major taxes, from larger VAT, residence taxes to higher flat-rate taxes for more than 100,000 small private tenants. Although you boast often of falling unemployment, it is the result of an exclusively huge outflow of the most productive workers and their families abroad. And if you actually look at the last five years, the number of unemployed has dropped by 195,000, but what Branko Grcic was talking about today, only 57,000 were employed during that period, while 138,000 were relocated or for other reasons deleted from the records. And you know why people leave? People leave not only because of low wages, but because corruption, clientelism and nepotism flourish in Croatia. The perception of our citizens on corruption places us at the very top of the European Union among the most corrupt countries. Everyday affairs related to the Prime Minister, the entire government, HDZ, Uljannik, Borg, Agrokor, and the government is pretending and you pretend like nothing is happening, and not only that, you still hold their ladder. People can't just calmly watch how jobs in Croatia are only done if you're a member of the HDZ. More than 3,000 new people are employed by the ministries, state agencies, public services on the burden of budget and taxpayers. And instead of dealing with inefficientness and surplus issues in the ministry, you hire new people, over 3,000, even in public enterprises. And then there's no wonder that the profit of public companies this year is halved, it's down 50%. That's how you spend 100 million kunas, but that's why there's no money on the other side for a million pensioners living below the existential minimum. As the Government said, there was not enough money to raise salaries for teachers and health workers, as well as social workers. While the Prime Minister boasts of a 750 kuna growth, which he and the Government, 750 kuna in the economy, which he and the government have no influence at all, you forget to mention that pensions have grown by less than 90 kuna, and you have a lot of influence on that. Another truly disastrous and extremely devastating piece of information. Croatia has fallen on the list of competitiveness, do bussines in the last 3 years for as many as 18 seats, we are in 58th place. In front of us are both Hungary, Serbia and Montenegro, a number of countries that should never be in front of Croatia. The latest example, as well as a kind of appeal for a better business climate, comes from several chambers of commerce, foreign chambers of commerce and associations, which warn foreign investors on behalf of them that the main problems in Croatia are. These are inefficient public administrations, legal uncertainty, tax presses, tax burdens, lack of professional labour and a lack of government work force. These are key assumptions and obstacles to business in Croatia. So there are no reforms, this government has not launched any serious reforms. One imposes a reduction, and then the other lifts up to patch the hole, for example in the health budget and admits its inability to move things in any positive direction. In both this and that environment, depression and imperceptibility, we are talking about the 2019 budget today. The proposed budget for 2019 is the only guarantee that we will continue to stagnate and there will be no reform. It is an uncontrollable spending of money to buy affection and votes, as well as buying coalition partners, which may best show the planned expenditure growth of as much as 8.6 billion, which has breached the famous 140 billion expenditure limit in the state budget. The government says the foundation of the budget is a new tax reform that it is not. All the absurdity of this story is that all the time it's actually talking about tax discharge, and that the item is income from tax, continuously and significantly growing. Even a few billion kunas more than plan. What kind of reform is that? What kind of tax discharge is that? Instead of tax disbursement of salaries for most workers in our country, the government only increases salaries to the Prime Minister and by 15,000 of the richest in Croatia with salaries higher than 18,000 kuna. And that's the whole truth. It falls into the government's water thesis that wages will grow to informers, pharmacists, engineers, doctors, because you have just been denied by the HUP who said that 90% of IT pay experts in Croatia are between 8,000 and 12,000 kuna, so they will not be paid. That is why we in the SDP have proposed to increase the personal deduction from 3,800 to 5,000 kuna to increase wages in Croatia by 600,000, between 300 and 500 kuna, or 4,000 to 6,000 kuna per year. It is important that, among them, it is the ITs, pharmaceuticals, engineers, doctors, as well as hundreds of thousands of other workers, including teachers, health workers and social workers. For these people who receive salaries between 5,000 and 7,000 kuna, only on the basis of this tax discharge would immediately be paid between 5% and 6%, if this increases the base between 3% and 4%, this means that health care professionals and teachers would increase by 10% according to the SDP proposal. And that's the point. That's what you missed doing. And we don't accept the government's thesis that there's no money for that. In order to increase the basics, the government already has the money provided, and to increase wages through tax discharge takes 2 billion. If the government gives up the reduction in the general VAT rate from 24% and from 25% to 24% respectively, it will ensure the very 2 billion. And the reduction of VAT on the food group will not bring anything to anyone, will not bring a reduction of prices will only bring higher profits to traders. And those 2 billion workers in Croatia, those who do not have, in particular, those with the lowest salaries, would also mean a lot. And instead of investing 2 billion in salary growth, you invested 2 billion in the pockets of owners of shopping centres and import lobbies. And that's the truth. We draw attention from the other side that by increasing the untaxable prizes to 7,500 kuna, which in principle we can support the government in fact, nothing has been publicly denied in favour of workers but has left everything at the will of the entrepreneurs again, so it is a big question of where and how many of them will, whether they will indeed decide to increase the reward for their workers. So, those who haven't paid back so far will hardly be able to do so this year. And so we ask the government to take more responsibility at this point and make the right decisions that workers will directly feel in their pocket through higher pay. Our proposals are logical and financially sustainable. One important segment of the reduction of the government's proposed contributions and then on the other hand the increase in contributions to healthcare is typical spilling from hollow to empty, instead of implementing a serious reform of the healthcare system where waiting lists are growing where each day is harder to come to a specialist review where it is simply so long that it can no longer be controlled and where doctors and nurses from Croatia, the government, instead of that reform, are going to simply patch the hole. At the same time, the government disowns 0.7% of contributions or about 900 million kunas to entrepreneurs that capillaries will simply mean nothing, but nothing at all, and these money and how they need to increase wages in Croatia. Imagine that 900 million kuna has been rerouted to raise wages in Croatia. And this budget shows that the government unreal and persistently pump up budget figures on the use of European funds has left the debate of Minister Žalac, so that every year the rebalancing would have to admit that several billion kunas remained unrealised. That's how it is, for example. The plan for 2017 was nearly $11 billion, then the rebalance was reduced to 9 billion in order to ultimately make only 7 billion kuna. It is similar in 2018, however, in the 2019 budget. The government plans an absorption for as much as 17 billion kunas, which also includes don't be angry but in the realm of science fiction. Today, after 5 and a half years of Croatia's EU membership, only 14% of the nearly 11 billion euros it has made available to us. And look what you're doing now. In 5 years, the government has been able to use 14%, and in the next 5 years, how many of you are left to use and plan to use 86%. How realistic is that? Well, you can judge that for yourself. And that is one of the great reasons why we stagnate and lag behind other EU members. What the Government has not said this time, and what is extremely important, which reforms it intends to implement, which unnecessary costs will be cut, on which it will save, and how Croatia will move on the competitiveness scale where we are sliding to the bottom. We in the SDP are afraid that the budget will continue to be filled with repressive measures and that you will exercise over those smallest over small craftsmen, small companies, small entrepreneurs. That you will again punish those who had 1 kuna extra in the register or had 24 kuna shortfall or those who did not issue a 10 kuna bill for one single flower, bought a flower. This is the policy of this government, on the other hand you close your eyes to the millions of crime and robbery that took place in Agrokor, and on the other hand you forgive the debts of the richest. And when all of this is seen in the context of the current crisis and labour shortages in the labour market and the departure of our people unfortunately abroad we can easily conclude as government policy and this budget does not offer a way out of that situation. There is no indication that the government has a plan and an idea of how to control these negative processes, and that is something that needs to be worried about every citizen of our country. You can see that you care about all citizens would not propose in your plan of pension reform a future pension reduction, not increase the age limit for retirement would not take citizens' money from the second pillar, if you cared about the citizens would increase the salary of everyone as per the SDP proposal, especially teachers and health workers, and not only yourself and the richest. If you cared about sick citizens, you would reduce waiting lists in health care and provide specialist reviews available to all sick Croatian citizens without exception, increase hospital capacities and stop the exodus of doctors and healthcare professionals, if you cared about workers. The problems would not be pushed under the carpet by both 3 May and Uljanika and would not invite investors to Croatia, as your Prime Minister says, because in Croatia, cheap labour is cheap. If you cared about people living from tourism, you would not increase the burdens on private tenants 5 times, but would reduce the VAT rate for hosts to 13% and for accommodation services to 10%. If you cared about Croatia, you would not have allowed three buses of young people to leave our country per day. The budget is a document that should contain a vision, direction and responsibility for the country and its citizens. This budget has neither vision nor direction nor least responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106465	Now, on behalf of the government, the respected Minister Tomislav Tolusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106466	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs. Dear Mr Bernardiæ, first of all, thank you for this opening part of your work, and I would say, "I don't suppose you will support neither the rebalancing nor the budget for 2019," and don't. Maybe that's for the best, because I also think 140 billion kuna expenditure for all of what you've done four years before us is definitely a little bit. And you're absolutely right there, because your screw-ups wouldn't be 160 billion kunas on an annual level quite enough. This morning, the Minister of Finance and Minister of Labour and Pension System, if you have seen, has completed negotiations with trade unions where it means that state and public officials are increasing the basics by 5%, which you have not done in your mandate either of you. You haven't spoken to these unions, and as socialists and social parties. You put them aside, and them, and the Christmases, and the resurrections, and all that was associated with them, you didn't care. Maybe not you personally, but your party is definitely and it's definitely sad. Yeah, sure, I say again I need and more GDP growth and all the other things that are growing right now. But given what we've inherited in the last 800 days as far as we're concerned, this is definitely a great result. Because fixing what you left behind, it's real, you really need to be a master master. You don't need tax reform, all three rounds of tax reform, six and a half billion kunas less burden for both citizens and the economy. If the VAT had been cut by 1%, they wouldn't have said it. Now that we reduce VAT in the agriculture sector and for fresh fruit and vegetables, and for fresh meat, and for fish, and for eggs, and for the transport or trade of live animals where we reduced VAT 1.1. 2017 on seed, on repromaterial, on livestock food where prices will go by 9.8% lower in shops, and you take pictures with sour cabbage and Dora's chocolates, but now that the agricultural sector is being helped, it's no good. Why didn't you put the VATs on the food when you were so smart? You didn't move your finger around it. This is no good now. Almost double the VAT on our citizens for practically everything they buy on a daily basis in trade chains or their shops. And I hope that Minister Maric will listen again to the proposals in the following year, i.e. 1.1. 2020, that we will make things easier and better again. Oil, so you're the last one to talk about the Oilman. Well, you've been sitting at the last government meeting in your term of office, granting billions of guarantees for all of this, at the last government meeting on your way out, and that's normal for you. And you're salting someone's brains out here, and you're doing all that. Well, I guess that's definitely scary. The EU funds, I agree, definitely need even better and even better quality and we can do better. And since 2014, we can do better. And in 2015, we could have done better. If we're going to talk about the agriculture sector, 85% of allocation is scheduled, 58% agreed, 29% paid. Next year, we'll be done with the contests. We'll write everything down and spend it all, and I don't see where your concern is for the farmer, for the Slavon, and for all the other things we need to do and what we do. 150 kindergartens will be funded by this government by Christmas this year and signed contracts. So why didn't you finance them? Plus 50 that are already made new. Of that 42 in Slavonia. They're also in Istria. There are also in Međimurje, and there are in Varazdin. All the measures we're working on from the Rural Development Programme as soon as they haven't been scheduled? Because you either didn't know, or you didn't care. I hope this is the first thing you didn't know. Retirement index per year 2.5% of all of us are talking about billions. When we talk about reducing parafiscal burdens over the next three years of two and a half billion, it will remain for the entrepreneurs and should remain for them. And we can do a lot more here and we'll do it. But here, please don't support the budget because it's definitely not enough to finance everything that you've ruined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106467	Thank you. Okay. Anyway, then like this, let's make a deal. Two MPs may have picked up too late, and are we going to admit it or not? ... Okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Okay. I'm here to make a deal. All right, then. A colleague of Djujic and a colleague of Djakic, then we will accept. The first is Honorable Representative Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106468	Thank you very much. It's interesting how you, Mr. Tolusic, tell us what we messed up, and you come from a town where your mayor boasted that he was stealing from the state budget money through the Fimi Media. You support him, you're a friend, you're proud of him, you vote for him in every election, and then you tell the SDP that he's messed up, and HDZ is stealing money from the state budget for the Fimi Media. So at least give it so correct that then you don't report at all from Virovitica where the mayor is still awaiting trial for the Fimi Media, look at the rule of law for 10 years nothing happens, and he still works there and works as he does. That's HDZ, and that's what we need to talk about. And what you did specifically and what you did before 2011 about it would have been written, but not by Martina Dalic, but by some criminals at the crime scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106469	The answer of the Honorable Minister. Here you go. Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106470	Thank you, Mr. Maras. Fortunately, the direct party courts were suspended there in '89, '90. We don't have to use them anymore, because that's how you'd do it. .../Intruder Reiner: Don't, colleague Maras, don't from the bench... You're totally guilty of definitely accessing and performing around it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So let the court do its part. And she mocked the owl's shadow that he had a big head, just don't you and your party say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106471	The next replica is the respected representative Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106472	How nice it is to have a minister reveal himself like this. You have a problem with Croatian products, you have a problem with Croatian cabbage, so you have invested money and tax as a discharge in the pockets of the owner of the trade chains and not in the salaries of the workers. Yes, better to promote Croatian products than to rob Croatia. And what's the situation, perhaps, is the best situation in your county, from which you came as mayor. It is the poorest county in Croatia and you left it, the result of your work is seen and now you come to the Ministry of Agriculture, destroying Croatian agriculture. Because how else to explain that Croatian farmers have 30% less incentives than in the EU. That their late incentives a year, that their constant racketeering, that their production is falling, and at the same time in your ministry only comes out of an affair, an affair after an affair. Don't destroy Croatian agriculture, shame on you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106473	The next replica is the reply to the replica of the respected Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106474	I'll just remind you that you won't support it, but again, I'm glad, because we can't fix your mistakes with that money. The budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, in 2019, is higher by around 500 million kn. 2 billion 908 million pounds of direct payments, unlike your mandate, but let's ask the farmers when they have the incentives of billions and 100 million kuna paid this month's advance left in February and hopefully the rest, respectively, settlement in May or June, unlike your mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106475	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106476	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will accept your suggestion, not the budget vote, and I urge you to accept my suggestion to be a little less critical in the work of the previous government for the next reason. So, first one of the pillars of the foundation of your coalition, the head of the government's office, the second of the pillars is the economy minister in that government, Mr. Vrdoljak, who runs a party that is a coalition partner. The third of the pillars is the former vice-president of the government, Mr. Cacic, who was also Minister of Economy, and the 4th pillar is the former vice-president of Mrs. Zacic. A pervert, who has moved to the ruling majority club. Therefore, by criticising that government, you are putting yourself in danger of your coalition falling apart, of your colleagues hating you. Well, here I am, so then you and my advice in that sense can achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106477	The next replica is the respected representative Ivan Lovirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106478	The Honorable Minister Tolusic, first of all, seems to be pollomising with an indominant opposition, which is in the front lines, turn to these last lines, and there is a real opposition. On the other hand, last year you returned $400 million to the budget, you returned it, you didn't use it. 400 million kn of peasants lacked funding to shine, process, that's huge costs, you mean them, you've shown that your ministry is incompetence in funding. You said over the past few days, weeks, that you're pulling around 30% of EU rural development funds, around which is 21%, not 30%, all the numbers just promise to sow into the microphone, there's no money. You cut off peasants, 22% of agricultural production has fallen since joining the EU, don't be counting here with us opposition, but you're doing your job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106479	The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106480	Thank you to the honourable parliamentary representative. I know you're a doctor of the economy, I suppose, please, take the budget, if you don't understand anything, ask. So we're negotiating projects with Croatian farmers and the foundation of what we agreed with them, when we gave them a contract, that means agreeing, we're doing a projection of spending. If our farmer didn't start building a greenhouse farm, a greenhouse, he didn't build the equipment within the time limit we predicted, of course those money couldn't be spent. They're not lost here, they're being transferred to the next Mr. But I can't influence, even though we're at a favourable rate of 1.7% in HBOR, or via HAMAG already 0.1% in this way help farmers to implement their projects as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106481	The next replica is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106482	Thank you very much in one boast... We've heard a lot about the budget that's not important. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise, to compare what we found in 2011 after 8 years of the HDZ government and what you found in 2015 is not incomparable. So, we have found chaos, disorder, unhappiness and irresponsibility and with much work we have introduced order and ensured the growth that you today have thanks to us. And as for the Oilies and May 3rd, you'd better keep your mouth shut because all the problems have arisen during your government, because you didn't exercise the control you were supposed to have as a government. And now it's your last moment to do what the responsible government needs to do and release the 3rd May steel hug of the 3rd May Oilman who pulls the 3rd to ruin, although the 3rd May has a secure future and workers, but should allow them to work. It's your job to show that you're capable and responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106483	The reply of the respected Minister Tolusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106484	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic, we're doing everything we can to get May 3rd out of the mess you pushed her into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106485	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106486	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister. Here, on the trail of what my colleague Jovanovic said, minuses, budget deficits in the last year of 2011 you know how long it's been? 25 billion kunas the last deficit you left us in 2011 three years of Jesus' torment, which would be said to raise it to zero and turn it into a positive sphere. We left you this growth that you have today, you're aware of, right, these are facts, it can't be hidden. It's just like that. As far as Shipbuilding is concerned, we've talked a lot about this here these days, and you as vice president should know the information. So, guarantees that are legally and legitimately granted to Uljanika to support Brodogradnja, 450 million EUR during the 4 years of the SDP government and EUR 330 million under the mandate of HDZ governments, that is true So it's not there. [[Intruder: Thank you]] There's no one-sided responsibility anyway. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106487	Thank you. Answer, no, no. Okay, next replica of the respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106488	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is it not clear to me what you all consume in the government? Or is it some contagious disease that you're so boastful of? You're all out of pride. Or simply in the spirit of HDZ so far, you all imitate a great leader who shoots with pride, so you all want to be like him. It's a shame that you're calling the SDP and fixing some bullshit, you who belong to the first party in the history of the state to be accused of corruption, whose boss is an illegally convicted war profiteer. That you, should be ashamed of yourself. I'd be ashamed to be in HDZ. You stole through the Fimi Media and you have the nerve to tell someone today that he was doing something. You were all followers of a convicted war profiter. That's the facts. Tell me, what are those screw-ups you've been fixing? Well, 20 mandates wouldn't be enough to fix everything you've done to the Croatian state during the 1990s robbery, through the Fimi Media and all the crap you've been doing already. in this country for the last 25 years. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106489	Thank you. Minister Tolusic's reply Maybe that's better. [[/Invader: Welcome to Ivo Sanader.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106490	Thank you, Mr. Jujitsu. I mean, you guys shouldn't be talking to anyone like this, but you shouldn't be talking to anyone, and lucky enough, and you guys, even though they wouldn't want to, they couldn't be. What you've been doing for the last four years, I mean, what are we talking about? So what did you leave here? He had HDZ of his sins in the past definitely. And you are clean and honest, and you have clean hands, so to whom do you say so? Where are your mayors, the mayors and everyone else? In prisons. Where were they? No one has been convicted of your power. You've returned them again today. You're choosing them as presidents of the City Committee. And now you're telling us something. Who's your chairman of the City Committee in Vukovar? I can't hear the answer. Convicted criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106491	The next replica of the respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government and Minister of Agriculture, given the good success in the agricultural policy that you are leading, it is clear that 472 million kuna in the 2019 budget is from the European Funds and thus their spending, which will be at the level of 5.3 billion kuna, will clearly help the progress of Croatian agriculture. I believe all these meals that go to your expense are absolutely not standing, which is confirmed by our farmers in the everyday way of treating me as well as with you. I believe that you have made the biggest moves so far in agricultural policy, in order to stabilise, normalise with timely payments, but also the spending of European funds to improve agricultural production, in order to be more competitive on the European market. I believe all these lies and delusions that are through replicas To you directed, it will not harm the agricultural policy you are conducting. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106493	Thank you. Now we will go to the next club of representatives, which is the Living Wall and Power in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Vilibor Sinčić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106494	Thank you President, colleagues and colleagues representatives, the Croatian public and who is following us. This is the third budget of the government of Mr Plenkovic, the first one with the Bridge, and now we have the second budget of the government with the HNS. There are no significant changes in this budget, the budget is funded by public policies, if we're going to give for demographics, if we're going to give for the economy, if we're going to give for, I don't know, energy efficiency. All these policies are read from the budget. However, this budget clearly reads that no changes, so many important reforms, so much reorganisation, cutting where it is necessary, where party bargains are located, where money is accidentally spent, there is no rationalisation. Business is sual that is the word I used even in previous descriptions of the budget. But we're going in slow order, except there's no real reforms, no reform at all, I'd say, there's a clear reading of the unprecedented emergence of corruption, especially in the last year, a year and a half, godfathers, comrades, Borgians. It is clear to us, the Living Wall has always been clear, but now it is clear to the entire Croatian public that the paraintelligence underworld, some older inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia might otherwise call it if they remember some other time, the paraintelligence underworld controls all aspects of Croatian society. We can actually talk about disguised totalitarianism. I was taught sociology, totalitarianism is a social economic order in which one party, party, controls all aspects of society, from the media, from, therefore, the economy, from politics, etc. We're not far, unfortunately, from that. But you don't have to trust me, you don't have to believe, uh, or my colleagues. Take objective views, take what the professors tell you, who's been doing it all their life, who's just doing it, what do they tell you? Take independent research, take what the European Union tells you, very similar to what they say, very similar to what they say, but it means nothing to you. So I'm going to mention one more index where we're very bad at doing the bussines, the efficiency of public administration, the speed of the internet and the availability of broadband, but that's why we're the most expensive since we're among the worst available. Industrial production, as such and numbered others, that we do not now list, transparency and freedom of the media etc., etc. General impression, the general state of Croatian society is very bad, stagnation, and when we are cut by a new crisis, and they will come cyclically into this financial system, what happened during the Adriatica Kosor, that drop of 9.10% in one year, it will be a small baby for what could happen to us, when we are hit by a new crisis, a new global crisis. We already see growth slowdowns, so for 2019 we only have 2.7% of GDP growth, 20. just 2.5 and 21. 2.3. One downward trend, one slowdown, and one 3% should only repay interest on loans in this financial system, to borrowing, by the way, in the Implementation Act, it is decided that the new 30 billion states will be in debt in the following year, i.e. that limit has been put in place. Another proof that tax reform was not available and that there was no tax charge is that tax revenue increased 3.2% and GDP increased only 2.5%. So we took more through taxes than the growth of the economy's volume actually should have made it possible. It shows that the discharges are actually gone, but we're taking more of a weakened economy. The oil is also something that formed this budget, the 3-4 billion kuna guarantees that have been activated, because the oil can't settle its own obligations, as weights draw us, therefore, according to the deficit. As far as the Oilies are concerned, no excuse of the government stands. There's an institution called Jadranbrod, it even has a website, regularly gives reports on the implementation of privatisation, restructuring, etc. Croatian shipyards. You knew or had to know in what state the Oiler was at the time when the first suppliers were not paid, when the problems with paying workers started. After all, Mr Miletic, president of IDS, the mayor of Pula publicly said that somewhere there in October 2017 he came to the government and warned them about what was going on. It certainly doesn't abolize them, though, it's now an attempt at remorse, but you had to know what was going on. Nevertheless, months and months passed, I was personally in shock when I was there in January and February 2018, at the beginning of this year, what was the real situation. The myth of the only successful shipyard falls, all because of poor governance above all, all because of corruption, unintended spending, the debauchery of members of the Board and other officials there. However, as months passed, from January to February until that break at the 8th month, the same administration was there, the same administration continued to do what it wanted. And now that the situation is critical, when many workers are gone, because they can't live without pay, when we get statements from the Union that there aren't enough workers left to continue production, when orders of ships have been cancelled, now you're rolling your sleeves and going to do something. It's another attempt at programmed destruction, which is, however, sabotaged by the general rebellion of the workers and the people of Pula. As far as Petrochemy, a strategic firm, was long on public offer, so shares were sold, INA came into our story and now it's rumored there somewhere in the towers that Plinacro will now lower the price of gas transport for Petrochemy, and by the way the price of gas as much as I remember is about 70% of the total cost of Petrochemy, all expenditures, and it actually affects one through one of the company's profitability. We will now, it will happen to us to now favor the new private owner and that now he will be able to do business, so, in plus, and we as a state couldn't, or we didn't want all these years because the gas and the transportation fees were bigger than they were supposed to be. It wouldn't be the first case of guessing, so I'll just remind you that HZ Cargo, a large part of his traffic, I think is about 50 percent of what's being driven by these cars, are just products from Petrochemy. The Sibenik port is owned by Petrokemia. What happens if Orban decides, if you please vote to close Petrochemy? The more we sell it once, the more nobody asks us anything, the more nobody asks us anything, the more we don't decide anything, so nobody asks us anything about the Croatian Telekom and all the infrastructure, so we don't have an oil industry anymore, now what they want is that there's no more shipbuilding or Petrochemy, what's left of Croatia? Zagreb and apartments at sea. Is that the plan? Is that the economic program? As for the growth of tax revenues, so we've had growth since, so we've had these, I repeat again, 30 billion new debts with 33 billion, which in item 4205, I think we're going to have to give this year, in fact, to continue this trend of life on debt. It now seems that the system is stable, but as soon as the banks decide, as in Todorovic, we don't give more credit, but give us back the old ones, it will happen again in 2008 and 9. But in this case we are much weaker than we were back then. Gross domestic product, GDP, what's the last word for product? So they want to produce, products of people and machines, people are getting smaller, less and less people in Croatia, but that's why we're getting public administration, we're having a public sector, so often criticised public sector, and now as a reform, there's a state administration in the county, one of the four parts of the state administration, it's not going to be now, it's not going to be under the central state anymore, but we're going to transfer it to the county. And now it's like some kind of reform. They're not going to work for Chief A anymore, they're going to work for Chief B, and I can say everywhere that we've reformed, that we're working more efficiently. There's not much going on in this government, but where effort is being made is the PR, trying to justify the public, convincing the public that it's something they'd like to do. Our Prime Minister Plenkovic actually doesn't have the legitimacy, I'm counting the votes that actually the MPs who hold him have brought votes and how many votes he has as Prime Minister, or his majority, he doesn't have those votes, he doesn't really have the legitimacy to be, but our system allows it to be. It acts more as one colonial deputy and Croatia is increasingly acting as one colony, instead of making us a colony from Homeland which will serve as a cheap source and labour force, so all these people who are leaving us have invested in them for decades, in their health, in their education, in their home and of course we should and now someone will get it cheaply, so these people are already dressed, working, actually free of charge. We also serve as a cheap source of raw materials. I'll just remind you that 95% I think we're importing salt from Morocco, Algeria, etc., next to our three little salts and by the Adriatic Blue Sea, not to mention what's going on with the exploitation in the woods, etc. I'm going to turn to the winners of this budget, the winner is definitely the defense winner, definitely the defense winner, if I read well 12% we're growing the defense budget, if I remember it grew last year, you'll have to give at least 2% of the year's GDP for the defense. Another element is that we are not a sovereign country and that our perpetrators too will do whatever is required of them. The winner is also the government by 90% they've raised costs in a few years of 266 million before if I'm not mistaken for 3 years, now we're going to have 494 more. We're also going to give SOA more than 325, I think it was 217, we're going to get to 410, so about 30% increase for SOA, it's not clear what. When you look at any conto, there's one 5, 10 subconte below, which is correct. For SOA, there's only one conto, SOA 410 million, huh, for which we give the state's secret. I don't know, maybe she needs to spy on someone, or who knows if we'll ever find out. NATO operations with 98 million will come to 161 million, of course we have money and will indeed become Europe's most advanced country as President Colinda said but from behind, when we look back. When we look at the general picture, what Mr. Plenkovic did not want to hear, I cited the Madison project research, so GDP growth since '89, those years before the fall of communism until 2016. Croatia grew only 6.5%. So we're still hunting that '89, or 2008 if you want before the crisis. At the same time, Slovenia grew 48%, Poland 124, so more than doubled its GDP, the Czech Republic 57, Slovakia 108, Romania and Bulgaria, whom, not us but older generations, I think as a people sometimes made fun of how much they are on the cusp of development. Now they're threatening us. Romania has already passed us, 54% has increased its economy. So almost 10 times as much as my growth rate is, Bulgaria 58 and they will soon reach us if it continues, this burying at the bottom of Ireland is 157%. And Mr Plenkovic doesn't have to believe this research either, let him look at some similar, let him look at the Croatian Statistics Institute, let him see, there was one great contribution, if I'm not mistaken, there was an informant on one commercial TV show, there they also presented one research, I think there was even less growth in 30 years than it is here. So the figures are similar, it's a real state, it's a complete defeat, a flood of statehood in Croatia, any development of Croatia in whatever segments you want, you'll find a lot of problems that just don't solve or don't want to be solved. As the state weakens, the lobbies take over individual roles and create policies, they form them and our immunity to the state's attorney's office and everything that makes the judiciary is not able to do with this disease, cancer, anomaly sanction, that is, unable to sanction in time. As a Croatian man lives, many live very hard or not, I will only remind myself of the structure of employees in the Republic of Croatia for 2017 data from the tax administration. If we take an average salary of 6200 kuna, then we have a million and 200 thousand people who receive such a salary or less and 400 thousand people who receive more than that salary. So three-quarters of people according to this data clearly write down the number of taxpayers just add up, about three-quarters of people receive less than that average salary and one-quarter receives more. And that's why this tax reform is a total failure, we give money to a few of those who live relatively well and a million and 200 thousand of these get crumbs or nothing. We need to strengthen that group of citizens who are the most numerous. If someone comes from three grand to five or six grand, they'll spend it, we'll boost that middle layer and it's about a lot of people like that. If we strengthen a thousand of those, here in Croatia we have almost a thousand of those 50 to 100 thousand kuna monthly net income, if we increase them, they will put it on savings, they will put it on the bank, they will take it out, etc. This will not go into consumption, or will not go to the most part, the effect is reduced. As far as wage schedules are concerned, if we look at the consumer basket, the data are also alarming, fuel prices in Croatia as in Italy and Austria, I recently visited the phones, the internet, also abnormal, companies even boast that Croatia is not, and that Croatian consumers are not able to deal with low prices, so there are so many prices for tava services, I have already mentioned earlier what quality it is. Gas and electricity, too, if we consider some income as much as the Croatian average family and citizen incomes from the amount of fuel costs. It is clear that if the fuel price is the same in Italy and Croatia, and there is three times the salary that it will be a much smaller share in the household budget. In Croatia you have a case that even up to half, even more income families go on directs, accounts etc., already depends on where you live. It's unacceptable, it's pressure from all sides, it's one violence committed continuously against Croatian citizens and it's unacceptable. There are, of course, our old problems that we haven't touched, the number of units of local and regional self-government that are ineffective, our legendary judiciary of many elements, of courts and of the State's Attorney's office, I'll only mention land books, which also belong to courts, the arrangement is none at all, nor is this budget showing that it will be significantly better in recent periods, we're somewhere on 7% of the order, and nobody's going to invest in anything where there isn't one through one, it's very difficult. Public administration, consumer protection, etc., etc. I'll just point out that banks on the other side are great, 27 billion came in the spring of the year, i.e. 27 billion of these times have commercial banks in the National Bank, which could be placed in something, but they don't want to place in anything, on the other hand Croatian, craftsmen, companies, and the OPGs were forced to take out consumer loans to finance their production or to resuscitate the obligation, and they don't want to place on the other hand. You can't play chess if you don't have half a figure, or you play it hard and you'll probably lose. That's what's happening to Croatia. The colonial governors have taken away our simple tools to play this economic game, we are being held by tourism which, as we heard, stagnates, a new crisis could have disastrous consequences on the Republic of Croatia. Business assuall continues, and only for the end of one line from environmental protection, that the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency will be EUR 370 million for waste disposal cans, or waste sorting, but there are no hundred million to take cans for therefore, the classification of biowaste, but if we also charge Europe's pens as much, there will be money for it. It's one of our absurdities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106495	Thank you very much, colleague Bulj has asked for a break, please, with what?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106496	Thank you very much, Chairman, for asking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club for 10 minutes, the Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, because at some point here when we talk about the most important document we bring, about the state budget, no one was in the minister's benches. That's what I'm telling you and the Prime Minister, that's what I'm telling you about this relationship. This morning there was a prime minister and all the ministers while they were cameras while he could make a few PR moves like Eve Sanader, I don't think that's enough. We can't let fellow MPs, let the government treat us like this. Parliament is a body which is a key body and which makes a decision on the Budget. We cannot allow there to be no ministers here that I intend to personally ask, which colleague Sincic is now in the debate, before colleagues now who follow on behalf of the club. Neither care nor care will they listen, nor the problems of traffic, nor the problems of agriculture, there are five minutes used, and they ran to have good dinners, and the fact that two-thirds of Croatia are empty, they absolutely don't care. Minister Maric knows, this is ridiculous, but it is a sad fact that no one at one time during this debate was from the government, nor cares what Parliament is saying, and this is no longer parliamentary democracy, this is a dictatorship worse than Eve Sanader. Ivo Sanader was nothing to Minister Maric, you were also in that government, you know how Ivo Sanader treated himself, this is nothing. Compare, see only, so is it possible that one important document, where we are discussing two thirds of Croatia that are absolutely extinct, where we are talking in textbooks, where we are talking about education, where we are talking about roads, where we are talking about demographic measures, that there is no one relevant here, has now returned at one point Minister Maric, because I asked for a break, so when they felt they would not be called. Look at the benches. Here's the tape, here's a look, where's the minister of traffic? Where the Prime Minister is, here I call on behalf of the MOST to return, we will give them 10 minutes of opportunity and listen to parliamentary representatives, the clubs that follow behind to hear them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106497	Thank you very much, I will of course grant you a break, but the truth works, you should say, first Minister Maric is here, and secondly, not he is constantly present, and let me guess that a man can go out for 2 minutes or 5 minutes, and the other thing is we would all have to imagine that here in this House, of all of us very interested in public good, we are somewhere from chance, so, one sixth, or one week. It's also unfortunately something we have to think about.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106498	I don't know what you're talking about, I've written the amendments, I want to hear the problems of Sinj, Cetinjski end like, he's gone, where is the Prime Minister, where is he now?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106499	I took a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106500	Where are the traffic ministers? Where?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106501	First of all, don't yell at me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106502	Protect Parliamentary democracy, don't court the prime minister. [[Don't yell from the scene.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106503	I'm giving you a warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106504	No problem, but no problem at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106505	That's your second warning. You no longer have the right to speak. Of course it's a break now, isn't it? Stand by 2:30. ... MEETING IN 14.25 HOURS [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There he is, dear colleagues and colleagues, the break is over. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.35 HOURS]] There are two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine MPs showing great interest in this key issue of the state budget. But let's move on with the representatives' clubs. So on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, the respected representative Grozdana Peric will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106507	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected ministers with associates, here as you have noticed how important this most important document is, it is actually visible from the pine tree as many of us here in the assembly, but nevertheless, it is up to us to conduct this debate, to point to what was done well and to propose and support this budget for 2019 and to propose projections for 2020 and 2021. Despite the fact that some clubs have previously shown a lot of skepticism, disagreements, etc. We must and argue that everything that has been done in, and this is the third truly budget of this government, it has been made right, it has been done in a way, that it has been projected really as much as it is earned and that certain surpluses have been achieved, both at the annual and half-yearly level, and it is also visible from the public debt line, where it is seen that this government is doing everything possible to reduce public debt and that since 2015, when it was 83.7% in 2019, the share of public debt in GDP has been planned. So, this says in favour of the fact that everything that is done is done in a way that, with our own income, with our own resources, we service our needs, that there is no new borrowing, but that only the old commitments are being refinanced, that is, those commitments that were at that time with much higher interest, and we also know that it should be reiterated that only those who are in the maturity can be refinanced, and this has been successfully implemented both in the past and these years, and therefore there are significant savings that have been achieved in the budget itself. This proposal for a state budget, for 2019, is as already said both development and social, and what is most important is that with all these changes that have taken place in the tax system, the pension and health reform paves the way for new investments and fostering the debt of economic growth and demographic recovery. As much as this and as many opposition parties as have unrecognized everything that has happened and what seems to have happened, we must point out that the tax reform has just made it possible for every citizen to have a bigger basket from which he can service his needs. Moreover, greater consumption, each citizen, therefore, is made possible by personal consumption, and the measures taken in all other sectors are also improving economic growth and demographic recovery, i.e. helping both individuals and businesses. When someone says the state budget doesn't write anything in it, then I think the one who says it like that, I don't think he's read it in detail. In the budget itself, all the items of individual users, i.e. heads, can be read in detail, and what needs to be noted, that in this state budget, you have a detailed representation of all the projects, which are financed from the EU, therefore, by each individual division. Then we can track what anyone has applied, how much of it will be realized in these three years, or what is nominated, and then we will be able to easily track the realisation itself. The state budget itself predicts growth in this year of 2.9% with a very carefully planned growth of 2.7, i.e. 2.5 in 2021. This must not discourage us and that does not mean that it cannot be much larger. This budget shows a positive contribution to domestic demand, while net foreign demand is negative. It is still as already mentioned, tax discharge is significant, so it is also said for the citizens and also for the economy that in these three circles it is more than 6.4 billion kuna. What does that mean? It means that at the same time the economy itself and those discharges that occurred through the reduction of some rates and other interventions. The economy is able to intervene in a way that invests in its employees, i.e. retains its workforce and raises the income of those employees. The budget itself also shows that no matter what he or someone claims is growing, the cost side then we must say that it does not follow enough what is happening, everything that increases the share of EU funds, therefore increases the income, but increases the expenditure side. Based on this, we can be satisfied if it really will be realized that in this period as it is said there and that the total funds that are foreseen are indeed agreed and that is new funds over 13 billion and total in that group of more than 17 billion. So our goal is to do as much as possible but also to realize, so pay and complete certain projects because without completion there is no final realization. In the tax discharge itself, it is evident that this will be very significant for those key provisions of life such as meat, fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs, diapers, etc. And also what is particularly significant is that the VAT rate is reduced for medicines, whether they are on prescription or without prescription. This is what especially cheers no matter what someone said the VAT rate will decrease from the beginning of 2020 to 24%. What I've been trying to do with all these interventions is actually to make possible equal development throughout Croatia, so through the tax reform that went on at the beginning of the year, it has made it possible for as much resources to remain with local and regional self-government units and, in fact, to increase original incomes and these are primarily income tax, which is actually a prerequisite that these units can at the same time plan and do projects and also to launch certain projects that, with the nomination of EU funds, also require certain funds, and that is at least 15% must be provided in fact by their own resources. So the entire budget is now planned for 13.1 billion kuna, and it goes up to 138.5 in 2020 and 140.7 in 2021, respectively. What should be further mentioned is that, with regard to the return of a part of the excise duty, it has also intervened, allowing part of the commercial transport of goods to trucks to be returned to a part of the funds, which in any case stimulates the purchase of fuel itself in the area of the Republic of Croatia, which is not negligible. It is also important to mention that it has been increased, a contribution to health insurance has been increased from 16.5%, but by abolishing 1.7 for compulsory unemployment insurance and 0.5 contributions to health protection, which is, in fact, an entrepreneur, an entrepreneurial give down by 0.7% points. And what allows this to really lead to health care, i.e. HZZO, which is visible from the budget, is increasing revenues from 20.8 billion kuna to 23.2 billion kuna, which will result in a much better, i.e. recovery of health care, and so that we help in a certain way to increase this standard. When we look at the income itself then it is evident that tax revenues are the most significant they are 78.5 billion kuna and they are really planned in the next periods to increase to 82.6 billion in 2021, and this should not be interpreted as a tax press to increase the tax premium on citizenship and on the economy because it is not really what it is, it means that more and more traffic is channelled through regular channels, that it enables individuals to get better and higher consumption, and then there is a growth in tax revenues. When we talk about contributions then it is visible that, in revenue from the contribution of twenty-four whole one billion kuna, they are also growing, given that they allow for those changes of work and other pensioners and other ways of payment of FINA for a contribution to pension insurance but that is still much lower than what we need to pay out pensions and there is this disproportionate between income and pension expenses and all that is necessary for the compensation or for the payment of pensions. So the continued ratio between the employees and those who are retired is unfavourable and in any case the aim is to increase that ratio and then that disproportionate will be much smaller. The expenditures are projected at a level of 140.3 billion kuna and this is more than 5.2% and they increase to 141 billion decimal points 5 in 2021, so they do not grow as progressive as they want to be shown in some discussions because it is primarily aimed at curbing the expenditures that increase this disproportionately and therefore the increase in expenditure is actually very much higher and it is being monitored in accordance with real opportunities and thus the rights are given according to what the budget can endure. In the context of demographic renewal we can speak and some speeches do not have enough measures, there is not enough impact on it, however you see that through a series of laws that are proposed, which are given to us here, are also seen to be a supplement for children and benefits for additional maternity leave and equipment for the newborn child, then co-financing of housing loans and so on. This is all very helpful to keep young families, so that these families have children and stay in Croatia, so it is not true that all these measures do not make sure that as many of our young people stay here. However, what should also be said that labour mobility is much greater because we are part of a large family that has the possibility to move around the European Union without any special authorisation and in this way it is quite logical that this spill exists, however, does not mean that these same young people will not return unless we create quality preconditions for their return. Here's a guy who's from Poland the other day, says they have a big rush, for example. Vietnamese in Poland, which means that these migrations in the world and in Europe are everywhere. What I would also like to say is that the projected deficit foreseen in 2019 is at 0.7% while it is planned in 2021, which is likely to achieve a certain balanced budget. Likewise, when we talk about the projections that have been made for this period, we see that they are also in line with the views of the Committee on Fiscal Affairs and that, in fact, great progress has been made in this period. What is still to be said about the implementation of the State Budget Act itself, we can also say that everything is in line with the requirements itself, it should only be said that the individual articles four, or ten, thirty and one and the others are made possible and Article five can also point out that the programme financing of higher schools and scientific institutes where these funds can then be used with the agreement of the Ministry, so within the programme funding, which is very good because, somewhere, it has been demonstrated that unless pre-planned over the previous years, they could not use certain funds. As far as borrowing and payment are concerned, everything that is supposed to be, will be supported by the HDZ Club, is also put here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106508	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the SDSS on behalf of which a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106509	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, unlike some SDSS Club clubs, the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club thinks this budget is balanced under the given circumstances. These circumstances are not ideal, so this balance is also not ideal, but in the given circumstances, it is well balanced and if this positive trend continues and reaches within two or three years, to this real balance, it will then be for the financial situation of the Republic of Croatia a significant indicator. But this balance is not the result of some profound changes in our economy. It is not the result of some serious withdrawal in our economy, it is the result of the impact of external economic circumstances on our economic business on the one hand and on the other of what the ministry has taken on financial measures, which is a matter of tax policy, where it has created assumptions, that these two things come together and some kind of positive result. As far as the structure of this budget is concerned, we will focus on three things in our debate. The first thing is to make use of the funds for European funds and the costs this budget provides for to achieve that usability. Therefore, since the next year 2019 and 2020, there will be a significant share of the funds in that, in all issues concerning EU affairs, including the use of the funds available to them from the EU fund. And when it's all looked at and summed up together, it's a significant amount. A very significant amount. Our domestic component in EU funds is over 4 billion kn. When nearly a billion kunas are added to this, the funds we need to provide for the jobs that we have here in Croatia, which in Brussels because of the EU presidency are additionally significant, true, short-term assets, but significant funds. When all those funds are added, those several hundred billion kn, which go towards increasing the usefulness of the funds that we can get or that we get from the EU from the EU fund, then the figure increases significantly. We, of course, think it is good that there are ambitions, that the usability of EU funds is maintained at the level at which it has been maintained so far, but we have no indicators to convince us of that. This is not a criticism, nor you, Mr. Minister, nor other ministries, this is actually a structural issue of our policies towards the EU, our skills at different levels to withdraw these funds. So no ambition in any sense should be reduced, however, I am not sure how realistic it is that what the ministries have shown will be real and used. So, if a domestic component is added, of more than 4 billion, if the fact that we are paying almost 4 billion in the EU budget is added, then the story of the usefulness of European funds for double of that must be bloody work, serious, organised and bloody work, otherwise we will be what they call in the EU in the English jargon... In an ideal case. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he lives off his own budgets, he can do it from the title of European funds, so there's still these... I say that as a member of the ruling coalition, I say that and as someone who has been following the whole story since EU accession since the first days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And indeed, it is a huge reservoir for budgetary possibilities. And it's no accident that this budget and this Mr. Ambitious, because ambitions need to be kept, but at the same time, you have to face the fact that these ambitions must have coverage. In all areas, both in agriculture and in science and in education, and in regional development, not to mention further. So far, despite the fact that in 2017 the indicators were such that there was a significant increase, but in total and in the long run, these indicators are still not even close to what we should have. Another thing I'm not going to discuss here today is the issue of the structure of the usability of these funds, especially for certain ministries. What's this real benefit to the country? What's the real benefit of the economy? Local self-government units use moss as an example. The city of Vukovar for a promenade along the Danube or for various other infrastructure projects, but for what it really should bring a budget discharge on the one hand, and on the other hand create assumptions for economic recovery it does not happen. Except maybe some. Don't let some of my colleagues resent me, for example. Our colleague from Rovinj. But that's not happening. This would have been said to have been the old springs that were done 10, 15 years ago in countries that, like the countries of the broad wave of integration, have benefited significantly. Today we have much more experience on how and how we should use it both in the sphere of education, and in the sphere of culture, and in the sphere of science, both in the sphere of agriculture and in the sphere of general balanced regional development. As for agriculture for which we are extremely interested as a club, I suppose a good part of other national minority representatives also, given the situation we even have in areas where, together with members of the majority Croatian people, different members of minority peoples live, minority communities there is a state of budget well. As for the distribution of funds, I don't know how good it is. If I look at the state of the field, and later I'll show you a map, then we'll see, or now I'll show you a map or a map, then you'll see what that state looks like. These red municipalities are municipalities with red and green color, these are municipalities of the first and second groups of underdevelopment. See what part of Croatian territory that is. Most of Slavonia. Most of Bania, Kordun, Like and Northern Dalmatia are the first and second groups. In these areas, if we add two more groups of third and fourth people live 1/4 of the Croatian population, millions of people. And what are the revenues of the municipalities in that area compared to other municipalities? You'll see the difference is huge. Take Voćin in Virovitica-Podravska County average income per person in kuna is 12 and a half thousand kuna. At the Sisak-Moslavina in the Lower Kucurusars, 13 thousand kunas. There are 14 thousand kunas in Osijek-Baranja in Jagodnjak. In other units of local self-government in the Primorje-Gorski County, these amounts are either twice as large or triple as that and it's a good thing it's there. But it's not good that in these units it's like this. I'll show you another map to see what the population density of Croatia looks like. From zero to ten, therefore, from the middle like Gorski Kotar, Lika and Dalmatia where we have the entire areas that are uninhabited. We also have them in the Western Slavonia area. Unfortunately, we have them according to the area of Eastern Slavonia and Slavonia in general, to an area where density per square mile is less than 10 inhabitants. So, if we want to change something, if we want to change this picture, then it's perfectly safe to distribute funds in regional development, and in the Ministry of Agriculture, and in the Ministry of Demography to work so that this picture is in mind. Otherwise, she'll be worse next year. It will be significantly worse by the census in 2.3 years because this was done on the basis of the 2011 census. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we believe that the Law on assisted areas for which we do not see a special space at this time, we see possible means, but we do not see a special space because it has yet to be passed as a serious law of interest for the Republic of Croatia. We think that the Supported Areas Fund, which would change this situation, must be adopted without delay and urgently as there is a Fund for the Use of European Union funds, so there must be one such intervention, emergency fund as a measure that I hope will not last forever, but will last as long as is necessary. Otherwise, people in the Baranja area, regardless of their nationality, and more nationalities live there, both Croatians and Hungarians and Roma and Serbs and Slovaks, will emigrate. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary for budget allocations to be taken into account, given the situation we have presented, and on the other hand, we believe that it is necessary that the instruments necessary to change this situation, such as the Law on Supported Areas and the Supported Areas Fund, which were to be adopted by the end of last year, be brought in by the beginning of the year. The law by the end of the year, and the Fund by the beginning of the year. Otherwise, as far as we're concerned, the SDSS's club, the parliamentary debate won't make much sense about next year's budget, unless those expectations are met. We are sensitive to poverty everywhere and throughout the country, but in these areas, we are sensitive to demographic losses all over the country, but in these areas, demographic losses are such, poverty is such that it is humiliating for each of us, who is trying to make something, and does not encounter the necessary hearing in those whose will depends on whether it is possible to do so or not. We have reached out to certain measures to correct this, but obviously we will have to step up these measures because in opposite areas that are ideal for agriculture areas, such as Slavonia, such as Kordon, Balija and Lika, and a good part of the Dalmatian hinterland, will not be used. I'll say that too, I remember in 2004, in 2005, when some of the coalition partners at the time felt it was necessary to secure around 6 billion kuna from the subsidy budget and help with agriculture, incentives. It sounded like a spaceship, like an impossible thing, and it wasn't even possible, it was unrealistic at the time because the deficit was significantly higher, because the financial instability was much higher than it was today. Today we have every assumption that with enviable means we can ensure the growth of our agriculture, but we just have to look at what the funds are being spent in. Do they really contribute to the development of agriculture and do they really go to those who have nothing else to live on, but from agriculture, or go to those who are rich on the basis of these funds, but do not live on agriculture. It's almost like someone in tourism is living off the incentive for tourism, not living off tourism. Imagine what kind of tourism would we in the Republic of Croatia have? Let's change that because the situation in our agriculture is the opposite of the situation in our tourism. We have every assumption that in agriculture we have the results that we have in tourism, but with this distribution of funds and with this kind of policy we will not have. And free our resources and free European funds if it is kept. This isn't a criticism of any minister, least of all, the Minister of Agriculture. This is a structural and inherited condition, since I don't know how many years and we have to change it. As for other aspects of obstructing the rights of national minorities and what is foreseen in the budget, we would expect, this year, that almost the most important part of the re-electrication of return rural areas will be completed in the following year. We also expect that a significant part of the funds will be allocated or achieved for the restoration of war-torn houses, as well as that people will be given the opportunity to care for their housing, whether through a regional housing programme, whether through a programme organised by the state in return areas or areas of special state care or beyond. It is also a measure that is complementary to these measures that we ask to be introduced and advocated. Dear Mr. Minister, the SDSS's club will support this budget, but we ask you to keep in mind what we're talking about because it's of vital interest, not just to us members of the national minorities, it's of vital interest to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106510	Thank you. The next club of MPs is that of HDS, HSLS and HDSB on behalf of whom the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106511	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, if the minister had managed to prepare a well-balanced budget because if it hadn't, then the debate on this budget would have been much stronger and there would have been much more attacks on him, but, behold, it is calm and reasonable, so it is in some way and well, in such a single debate it can be pointed out to a number of things to be dealt with and to be dealt with. When we look at the Budget Proposal, then, of course, we need to be aware of what time it is being brought into, what has affected it, what was the impact on the side, what could be affected, what could not be done and what was generally possible. Today, relative to some times past, where and where it is different to work on the budget, because today it is different to formulate that units of local self-government do not put that much pressure on the budget itself, since they have significant resources from various European funds available and that because of tax reforms and fiscal decentralisation, they have significantly more of their own income with which they can plan and some programmes, co-finance these programmes and run for some other means. The fact is that there was a decrease in public debt, the fact is that the credit programme reduced the amount of interest, the fact is that state finances were brought into one state of stability, the fact is that the budget is planned cautiously, that it does not go with any kind of blow-up that should be good, because it should be planned, because in this year and last year this government, this parliamentary majority, this parliamentary majority, hit several side kicks on the sides that were very strong, powerful and it's a wonder that financial, that the finances were at all managed to maintain themselves and that they managed to save themselves, let's just remember the problems with Agrokora, the possibilities of losing a huge number of jobs, remember after that Oily and 3. May who are still present, let's remember that some guarantees came from the previous Governments of the Republic of Croatia for Uljannik and 3. In May, it preceded the Kukuriku Government whose ministers at the time are, in fact, the most bitter critics of today's budget and all the programs that are being done. And now that we look at it all together, let's put ourselves in frames if it hadn't been for a normal time, if it hadn't been for such blows, today the state of the budget would have been much better, much stronger, much different, much more optimistic and much more developmental. But, realistically looking at what was done in the Budget and Programmes proposal is what was possible to do, it's hard for someone else to do something much stronger and better in that part, and I think it looks back on the name of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, on two groups of programmes that are actually indirectly connected to the budget, it's about programmes that are implemented through Croatian waters, and it's about programmes that are implemented through Croatian roads. In fact, this time that is behind us, except that it has been done significantly on tax reforms, which has improved things to simply reduce this public debt, to move slowly forward in a positive way, we need to be aware that it was necessary to resolve and remedied the unhappiness of previous governments. I'll say it again, especially I don't like the Kukuriku Government. And here we are talking about European Union programmes and projects. So we're talking about agglomerations, we're talking about water lines, I'm not speaking in my mind, I was a participant and an observer of all of this, and unfortunately a lot of things didn't happen, it didn't happen because of the inability of the people who led this country back then, who were at the head of the cabinet and the head of government. Now, during this and past year, a lot of things have been managed in the programs of primarily agglomeration, and when we talk about these agglomeration and group waterway programmes, then we have to be aware that it is somewhere around 33 projects that are practically already signed, that it is pre-signed, that it is another 55 projects planned for next year, that this is a total of 88 projects across the Republic of Croatia, which will have a significant impact on the regional even development of the Republic of Croatia, not only because of increasing the standards of life of citizens, but also because of the possibility of including in the work of building operations, preserving jobs and improving the economic image in the Republic of Croatia. If we say that these 88 projects work around, over 7 billion kunas of money available, which is in most European funds, then it can become clear to us how important it was, how valuable it was, and how much cooperation between local self-government, local distributors, Croatian Waters, Governmental Resors will be needed to come to terms with the realisation of these projects in order to bring them back to life and make maximum use of them. I am pleased to see that these projects, of course, include settlements, and places that are home to me, that my Križevci, that there is Koprivnica, that there is Đurđevac, that there is Bjelovar, that there is Vrbovac, that there are most of the cities and municipalities of this part of northwestern and central Croatia, which have been abandoned in this programme of water supply and disposal all these years and which have major problems with that infrastructure. What you would also like to highlight here are the Croatian Roads programmes. So I've often asked the question and the resolution ministers, I'm not going to tell the minister, I'm going to tell the resolution ministers because there were more of them while the programme was being implemented, and it's about a programme already mentioned here on several occasions today. It's a program called the so-called program. Podravska Ipsilon, construction of a fast road towards Bjelovar and towards Koprivnica. When that road was moving, when that road was on the road, these legs of the road were named Podravski Ipsilon moved from Cugovec to Koprivnica and towards Bjelovar. It was then said and determined as an obligation to walk a meter by meter. Meter towards Bjelovar, a meter towards Koprivnica, and so the first shares are on their way. There's a stock heading towards Bjelovar to Farkashevec. The second section has reached Koprivnica to the Crosses. After that stagnation. We must not interfere with the mind and forget that during the time there was a sign of stopping and preserving these works, suspending everything, and that it was then that this road would never be built. With all due respect to all parts of our beautiful, I simply have to say that this part of Croatia is completely abandoned, that there are huge problems and that we simply don't have any more time to wait to move more actively into the realisation of these programmes and these projects. I am pleased to do great investment infrastructure projects, to do what I have already said and these waterworks, agglomerations, to do Pelješki bridge, to work and build a railway from Long Sela – Križevci – Koprivnica - Hungary. These are all projects that are... but I'm glad to continue to work and the Istrian Ipsylon absolutely. Every road, every rail, every infrastructure project needs every man. No one can say he doesn't need it. But here I point to the problem of the end close to Zagreb, which is like hundreds of kilometers away from Zagreb. Today we have in the program of Croatian Roads with this budget the planned continuation of the construction of shares of Podravska Ipsilon according to Bjelovar from Farkaševac. Unfortunately, we have no shares in the program Križevci – Koprivnica, but we only have part of this section Križevci – Vojakovci Kloštar. For this reason, as the Club, we have given the amendment to this written part, a descriptive part of the Croatian Roads programme because there is no part of the number in the tables, it is only being discussed in the descriptive part of the minority in the explanation and we have made the amendment to change that part to the Križevci – Koprivnica – Hungary with the first phase of subdivision Križevci – Vojkovački Kloštar just as Križevci – Bjelovar goes. I hope that this proposal will be respected and adopted by the promoter and that from now on, in all future times, this road will be mentioned as such, the Križevci-Koprivnica – Hungary, not any more pieces cut up on that stock. What I also want to say hello here as very positive is that finally in the budget and program of the Croatian Roads, the overpass is listed on the road between the Križevci and St. John Žabna via the track built from 80th to some year. It's often designed. It's often redesigned. The property-legal relations have already been resolved. It's already bought land. After that, it was all over again from the beginning. Now, for this same overpass on the state road, nearly 42 million kunas were planned in 2019 and 2020, and I believe it is simply now that it is finally time to build it to enable people to live normal because as the fast road section of Podravsko Ipsilon Cugovec – Križevci has since then passed significantly more freight traffic from the eastern part of the county, so from Koprivnica and beyond Koprivnica and behind Koprivnica and huge plugs are created in the town of Križevci and through the city center, but of course also on that ramp that has been lowered over 20 times a day. That he will be built I also believe for the reason he is on the railway section so the international railway Križevci – Koprivnica. This is the continuation of this Long Village – the Križevci, and after that Koprivnica and I am now convinced that this overpass will finally be built, that its construction will begin next year. Yesterday, my colleague Felak and I were at a meeting with freight transport carriers in the Chamber of Commerce in Koprivnica, who showed us a whole series of problems that they meet daily and that Croatia's roads can definitely, in one good part, be dealt with relatively quickly. People warn that when they stop by the police in control of their vehicles, they don't have those vehicles where to stop. This may not seem like a problem to us, but for those in those trucks, it is a very big problem and they are praying for funds to be found in the Croatian Roads programmes to create shelters along the state roads so that they have a place to stop when they are under traffic control. They also point out and warn of another problem that can also be used by these same puzzles, which we don't drive trucks and we don't have snow problems on tarpaulins doesn't mean anything, but it means a lot to us when that snow from the tarp falls on our car when we're driving behind a truck so when we can have a car accident. They are also asked to allow them to have such conundrums where they can stop, agree and remove snow from their tarp so as not to endanger other people in traffic, of course themselves. There were more speeches, and since we are talking about the Croatian Roads programme the most, I will mention another problem that they bring to us yesterday, and that is the problem of the border crossing at Murski Središće, so people say that this will significantly endanger their business, pray that this transition is not closed, on the other hand we know that this is a problem for the population who live there, we understand this, say carriers that there is a possibility that even an idea solution exists, even some plans of a bypass around the Murski Središče, to do so, also in the Croatian Roads programme and thus allow them to continue traffic in that part of Croatia. I am convinced that this budget will be implemented to a good extent, that the minister will make sure that it is balanced, that at the end of the year, when it comes to the end of the year it is well balanced, I hope and I believe that the trends will improve further, that it will be more positive to achieve the surplus, that at the end of the year, we will not get another oil or 3 May that could eat everything that has been stored and prepared for a year to come in a certain positive way, so that in fact, on the international stage Croatia will prove to be a more serious country, in this financial part. I also hope that the Croatian Roads and Resort Ministry will accept our proposal to amend this programme for sub-level Ipsilon, that it will start to build, I believe that the competition will be opened by the following year and that we will stick to what was previously said to go a meter by meter. I have to stay here for a little while longer on traffic problems and Croatian roads. I said already in the opening part that the area where I come from, there's a really big problem with traffic isolation. The state roads passing through the area of Koprivnica and Križevci County, especially in this section towards Zagreb, and also from Varazdin towards Križevci, have not been solved any side, so to speak, infrastructure, no footsteps, no cycling trails. On the road there are children, on the road there are tractors, on the road in cyclists, simple safety in traffic is at zero. I know that in the Croatian Roads programmes on that part there are some indications that it is moving into the designs of footsteps and cycling paths, the extension of the stakes, on shares from Gornja Rijeka, Sudovac, Gornja Rivers via St. Peter Orehovec to Križovci, from Donjara, by Koprivnica, Carevdar, Brezovo Most, Majurca to Križevci, from Križevci to St. Ivan Žabna, via Bukovje and Cuginac, from Rovisč, from Markovac Križevacka via St. Ivana Frogna, Škrinjar, Hagna towards Vrbovac, but I think it's all going too slowly. These are roads where people suffer daily, these are roads where there are very many people killed in traffic, and I simply ask, I insist that maximum attention be given to these problems, that Croatian roads and, with the help of course and pasture of the Ministry of Transport, engage more strongly on that part and simply enter the stage of solving these problems to ensure a normal life for people who live along those roads, those people who walk along those roads, who move and, of course, those who drive. With all this together, as I said at the beginning, our club will support this budget and all other documents along with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106512	Thank you very much, before we move to the next Club, let's welcome the students and students of the Croatian Catholic University of Zagreb who are at the gallery. And now, on behalf of the National Minority Club, the Honorable Representative Furio Radin and the Vice President of this House will share the time with counterpart Bilek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The state budget is not only the most important law that we adopt every year but also the document on which this Parliament is working far less than other European parliaments, in fact, except for the number of people reported for the debate and the Committee that participated in the debate on this problem, and the fact that the Committees only once are meeting to discuss the budget is actually paradoxical, and I would say that we are actually in front of one, in front of a decorative debate on this budget, because not only do the Committees not change the text of the law with their own, as in other parliaments, with their amendments, and not only that we are actually part of the approach to this problem, but if we look closely at this problem, this problem is approached in a debate which one, however, will last one day and one part of the night, but far less than in other countries, for example, I will indicate the German Parliament in which we are beginning to discuss the budget figuratively speaking, the day after the budget for the next year. Other parliaments have been discussing this important law for months. What I was about to say, however, is that this problem is being approached partyically. As we can see, one whole part of Parliament is not listening to what the other part of Parliament has to say about this problem. There is not one systematic part of the debate on what should be an alternative, alternative budget to that proposed by this coalition and this government. And in fact, we're in front of a particular debate that I think is being forgotten the day after this debate. So we're going to have here and we've had a series of particular debates that I can't put in an alternative, with the best of will. And because we have little left, we from the national minorities who are part of the coalition and maybe we have even more particular needs than we have parties as we have seen particularally speaking. So what's left of us is a small one, rather than talking about what our problems are, what our demands are and what our interests are. But still I'll try to be a little wider, sort of have a different discussion. Although first of all, I must say that we are relatively satisfied with the donations we have had for our associations and institutions and that the National Minority Club will vote for this budget. But you should also say that this is about percentages and absolute amounts, let's face it, they should be far greater than these amounts that we're discussing today. So the percentage when you see that one part of the donations for national minorities is growing 20%, you think it's God knows what, but we're actually going to watch a little bit of the donations or, as we call it today, I don't know why donations, Croats in Hungary, so you'll see what's the difference between what they have as donations to Croats in Hungary and Hungary in Croatia. Let's go to see donations or donations that are actually given to national minorities in some Nordic countries but let's look at also in Italy those given to Slovenians and those given to Austrians. And the fact that Croatia is a national minority, for example, in Italy, giving less donations is part of the responsibility for this Parliament, which may be too little to deal with the national minority. I've been to them four times, four or five times, but I believe that most of the MPs of this Parliament have never been to Molise or been to Croats in Fullana. So the numbers are important, they're not just percentages, we're satisfied with the percentages, we're still far from having those figures enough to express ours, so we can develop and not develop, because we're developing like all parts of society, our identity. And finally, I would like to say this, we are as representatives of the national minority and as members of the national minorities particularly sensitive to human rights institutions. A series of human rights issues actually here are the amount, the amounts for their realization are reduced. I'll mention, first... I'll mention, it's the attorney general's office, or the attorney general's office, that's down 0.5%, so it has an index of 99.5%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But let's face it, she was supposed to be the means for that office, for that office, they were supposed to be increased. Free legal aid has been reduced, a whole set of items concerning the regional, housing programme has been reduced. A programme of national protection and promotion of human rights and a whole series of human rights agencies. Human rights can't be reduced, that's what I'm saying. And indeed at the very end before I give my colleague's word to Bilek what's important. To what extent it is real money and to what extent it is virtual. It's all money that should reduce inequality and put national minorities on the same level as most in a whole series of social life-related activities. For this there is an operational plan which is very, very detailedly agreed with the ministries but which is very sloppy and slowly implemented. This programme has been agreed and as regards the pace of execution, it is very precise but humiliating that ministers must be reminded of what is in the government's programme and what is part of their jobs and their working hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106514	Thank you very much. The respected representative Vladimir Bilek will now continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106515	Thank you very much, fellow Furio, thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I would like to refer to the passing of two speakers who have shown in the left hand side of the Assembly, who often calls the Assembly empty when talking about important topics in the Croatian Parliament, this I really do not know more important law than the Constitution or constitutional laws which is more important than the state budget which is the basis for all the activities of the state, our budget users and everything that is happening in the Republic of Croatia and in the next period. That's why I respect all the colleagues who are here, I see this part of the opposition, though, that it is there. It would like to look at first in general the revenues for 2019, which are planned for a total of 136 billion kuna in the projection of the budget, with a growth of 5.5% above the 2018 plan. I am glad that these revenues are determined primarily by the expected growth of economic activity, taking into account the fiscal effects of the third round of discharge but also by the real planning of assistance of 17 and a half billion kuna, which is a growth of 26.4 and 55.7%, respectively, but what is most important is that this is primarily used to increase the usefulness of EU funds, and thus all levels of the general government in this projection period have positive indicators, both economic growth and fiscal consolidation of the state and the activation of state assets in the future. However, I must mention that this 2018, or 2018 budget, would have been in the plus if there had not been an unplanned payment of guarantees, guarantees given by another Government in the last sessions prior to the election, so unfortunately, it is a good thing that we now have pre-reserved funds or guarantees worth 1.5 billion kuna, although we hope that it would be best not to have their activation. When we talk about planned expenditures, I want to mention the financial expenditures that are projected in accordance with the terms of the financial market and the service of public debt planned for 2019 in terms of nine.8 billion kuna, when we compare it a little by more than 2 billion kuna compared to 2015, when that expenditure was also more than 12 billion kuna, which is really a success and the work of this Ministry of Finance in this congregation, and I thank you here the minister does not have but indeed, we have often in the Ministry of Finance on various talks and I congratulate that this figure and above all what I have to say to this part of the tax reforms prepared in the Ministry of Finance where, by dispensing literally, we have made it possible for local and regional self-government in rural areas to pass out and that the movement investment cycle and in this way, and the rest of people in those areas. First of all, it would refer primarily to the finance or subsidies planned in 2019 to as much as 7 billion kuna, which is an increase of nearly half a billion compared to the 2018 budget, but what is extremely important in these subsidies is that the maximum amount of subsidies goes to direct payments in agriculture, measures to regulate agricultural products, amounting to €3.2 billion, which is one financial injection to our farmers directly on the ground of over 100 million kuna. 1.8 billion kuna for rural development measures also guarantees an increase in the quality of life in the rural area. I need to say that one of our common objectives of this government, first of all, together with our partners, is to enable, among other things, our children in the Republic of Croatia the same conditions of education, and this education should begin, of course, from the beginning of attending kindergartens which are long ago not only places where children are kept, but these are educational institutions where children literally learn not only the first steps and first words but the first ways to live their lives. The same conditions, especially in the rural area, can only be provided in a few ways. Here we are through additional funds, through rural development, especially 7.4 rural development where use is planned and more than 100% of the envelope that we know will be going out soon, through which I hope Jelisavac, Kaptol, Djulovac, Dežanovac, Punovci, and all other units of local self-government that have run for their kindergartens will get EU funds to build them, and how many announcements we have heard these solutions or decisions should already be in some way below the Christmas tree soon this towards all our local self-government units. I would like first of all to mention one thing that almost a million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia live in areas below the average of development. These are the mahogany units of local self-government in Slavonia, Baranja, Banija, Kordun, all of these units belong to one of the first four categories of development index, so that each kuna or euro invested through rural or regional development here means a lot. It is in these areas that most of the members of the national minorities live. I would therefore like to really welcome what the Government has adopted the initiative of the National Minority Representatives Club and, in line with the Government's programme and operational programmes for the National Minorities, adopted a programme to finance local infrastructure and rural development in areas populated by national minorities in which 30 million kuna was initially cut for 2018 and, after the great interest of the local self-government units, our OPGs, crafts and businesses, of course and their quality programmes, the amount of the rebalance was raised to 45 million kuna in the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economy. These funds are provided to all citizens in these areas, regardless of nationality. A colleague of mine just before showed that map, I'll take this opportunity, I'll repeat it and I'll show it because I saw that Mrs. Ivana wasn't here, these are areas of moss in this part of the Republic of Croatia, so, more than a quarter of the population, more than a million people, so I believe it's now clear why we want to help these people so intensively, we want to help to achieve at least a minimum standard in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, in this coming year and legally frame this Programme, but not only at this level, but in line with the possibility of a state budget, if it is possible to increase these amounts, of course, how much it will go. But of course, it's not all so great, I have to admit that we have some problems in implementing the Operational Programmes, first of all for national minorities, some of them mentioned my predecessor, who spoke here, Mr Furio Radin, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, but I hope, with this correct budget, we will speed up and implement all these programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106516	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is one of the IDS, PGS and RIs, on behalf of which the respected representative Boris Miletic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106517	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Finance, colleagues and colleagues. There is definitely a difficult year behind us in which Croatia is unfortunately back on many important scales. I'll just mention a few. First of all, it has turned back on the issue of democracy, the freedom of human rights that stands in the Freedom House Report, but also in the report by the Ombudsman, Laura Vidovic. The Ombudsman found very directly and precisely that the systematic tolerance of one Ustasha discourse in Croatia led to the radicalisation of society, with a very clear finger pointing to the current government, as one of the main culprits, and to this day, the government did not look back on it with a single word, but it reacted to neighbouring Austria, which considers it necessary for its citizens to protect against the inconclusiveness of Croatian authorities, so they began to punish the enlargement of the constitution. You allowed Croatia to be on the wrong side of history again in the 21st century, I think any decent man must be ashamed of it. Secondly, Croatia has turned back in terms of ease of business. According to the World Bank Report, do bussines, and in the competitiveness of our economy, compared to other Central and Eastern European countries. Because of all this reading this draft budget, I expected something, anything that would indicate a change of direction. Of that, however, nothing. This budget is almost identical to last year, and should reportedly bring major changes. Of these changes, unfortunately, there will be nothing. We simply became prisoners of an outdated and inefficient management model, which apparently no one wants to get rid of. One of the characteristics of that bad model, which you keep pushing, is this budget is one rigid centralization. Even so-called. tax reform is essentially based on the withdrawal of funds to counties, cities and municipalities, other words to local communities, and local communities, and where a cluster of citizens meets most of their needs, from kindergartens, extended stays, primary, secondary education, sports, culture, etc. The IDS club on decentralisation from this pay phone keeps talking and we'll continue, we'll be persistent. This government has promised to carry out decentralisation, but in principle it does not want to hear or hear from it. It is devastating to see all these years of the country in the environment, especially the transition countries in Central and Eastern Europe progress faster than we do. They almost skipped us all. One reason is that our budget philosophy comes down to cutting or increasing certain items by 2.3 percent so that we do not achieve anything, rather than drastically reducing the tax press and facilitating investment and the creation of new jobs. I believe that all citizens, including us parliamentarians, and in particular the European Commission, are bored from year to year to year to hear how the real reform moves have fallen behind again. In the first year of your term of office, you said there was no time for major reforms, in the second year that they would be in third, and now you have tied hands for payment and payment of guarantees, loans to the Oil Group. Since I'm coming from Pula, I'm going to be here for a while. The minus that will be registered in the budget could be avoided due to the situation in Ulanik. More specifically, the state could have avoided him. Although it is of great importance that the entire situation in Ulanik is cleared up to the end, the fact remains that the state as the largest individual owner of the Uljanika did not take the necessary steps in time, even replaced the administration if it was not satisfied with the results. So a minus 3.6 billion kuna should be conducted under the term "unhappiness and inaction" of the state, because they cannot accept that the Uljanik, a company that fed half of Pula and the surrounding for 162 years, is supposed to be the reason why the whole of Croatia is stagnating. It's an illegal manipulation that is trying to prove Istria guilty of economic problems. I remind you that you are talking about one of the most developed Croatian regions that gives the state a billion kuna a year more than it returns. Please be honest with Istria and no longer use Istria as an alibi for your own mistakes. But to not be so black, I find it correct to praise certain moves that I think are going in the right direction. It is commendable to reduce the total expenditure of the general government from EUR 133.3 billion to kuna 131.7 and 1.6 billion respectively, such as the praise and discharge of citizens by 2.8 billion and the reduction of VAT rates to certain products. But here, too, there is a lack of courage, and the vision of making important moves is based on a larger budget. I'll give you just one example of VAT reduction in hospitality and tourism. After a 25% reduction to 13% on the VAT IDS initiative, the government increased it and thus de facto stopped and slowed down investment in tourism, which allegedly caused a number of problems. Of course, it caused it because it was precisely the basis of the Tourism Development Strategy adopted unanimously in this highest representative home that very clearly outlined future guidelines that indicated that the tax press in tourism over the years would decrease, and then suddenly look at this strategy that was unanimously adopted is no longer valid and VAT in catering has almost doubled. For example, if these VATs were to rank with us competitive countries in the environment, then our hosts would be able to offer more personal income to their employees so that they would not have to go outside and make more money for the same job. So the higher income ultimately means a higher budget. If the government had the courage to make more radical changes, we would not be talking about budgets based on GDP growth of 2.9%, but much more. The IDS as a responsible party has a duty to point out what the government should do, so we will propose the right direction to change the use of public funds. As in previous years, our club will submit a number of amendments to the state budget. Our amendments are aimed at improving health, education, environmental protection, building infrastructure through a series of projects that we are proposing. I hope that the ruling this year will have more understanding in deciding on amendments for the citizens of Istria than in previous years when these amendments have been rejected in principle without any good reason. In the end, I have to say that it is also regrettable that in this way we must ask the state for projects that we could easily realise ourselves if Croatia were to be a decentralised state in which more money would remain in those regions where this money is made and earned. Yes, to be solid always, to help the weaker always, but I hold and I stand by that citizens through their elected representatives in local self-government units and in regional self-government units should be able and should decide more on the added value they are creating in their own field. That is why the IDS Representatives Club will not support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106518	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the voice and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106519	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When you get a chance to speak on behalf of the club at 4 p.m., the clubs before you basically said more or less and I often wonder, maybe you should come out here for a pay phone and read something interesting, maybe you'd get more attention from a colleague but that's how it is, so I'll adapt to that. When we talk about the budget, then of course we are talking about the revenue and expenditure side of the budget. Equally, the budget is mostly a flow water heater. So what goes in must come out because you have certain data that you have and you can't influence, so it would be good to know what we can influence. The same way I often think in pictures and I like to talk in pictures, it's like that nest where little birds are, there's those 22 ministries that have opened their beaks like this and kind of beg to feed them and it's never enough and that's the art of the Ministry of Finance that can then feed someone a little bit more or less. When this budget is viewed and the budget debated, then you always see who some winners are or who some losers are and who went better or didn't pass. As the prime minister said in his opening statement, he said this budget is developmental, solidarity and socially sensitive. There was not a single budget I listened to that was not initially said to be developmental, socially sensitive, and solidarityal. From the figures that are in the budget because the budget is of course the figures, you read everything. You're reading the direction the country's going. You are reading what has been decided to do and you are reading the reforms that have been decided to implement and what is the general picture of the state. Otherwise, I was taught to save when there was, not when it was gone. So I have to admit, once again, I'm surprised at that two-year hike of expenditure of as much as 16 billion kunas, and that in a period where debt can be refinanced and more favourable and when income increases and this increase is approximately 15%. Somehow, it would have been to expect it to have been taken care of, I'm going to let the former finance minister go in peace, somehow to make sure that the spending party might have decreased a little bit. I know it's not very simple to go back to that picture of the birds that even throw something away, but there was some extra effort to make anyway. What we have a chance to hear, what we have a chance to talk about, the reforms that are mentioned, so there is the Tax Reform, and there is a mention of the Mirovna Reform, so the Health Reform is mentioned, and the Kurikular Reform is mentioned. So when it comes to health and peace reform, the users of that part of the budget are those who might be called winners. So when it comes to health care, therefore, Minister Kujundzic's budget has received about a billion kuna, which would not be small, if they didn't know there were 3 billion commitments made at the moment and that it is 8 billion. So it's a big question how much he's a winner, and it's a big question what can be done and at what stages and what is a health reform and what we know for sure, which is that health system users, that our citizens won't feel this extra billion, at least they won't feel it in terms of improving health services and health standards. Likewise, the winner and minister Pavic are connected to the pension system. Next week, if it's true, somewhere from Tuesday we'll be discussing that pension reform, so we'll see what that is, which is a win, but I'm afraid it'll ultimately be a win that the largest number of pensioners will get increased pensions between 50.00 and 60,00 kn. The same way we can discuss and talk about how something is more or less successful, but the real picture is how someone looks at us from the outside. How do employers who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia evaluate us on the scales where the Republic of Croatia compares with some other countries? Employers who want to invest in the Republic of Croatia still repeat as a mantra, a unstable tax system, a high energy price, an absolutely insecure judiciary and an insecure general state with its own difficult, this difficult mechanism. Equally on the scale of doing business, we fell and when you see why we fell, they say, you haven't implemented reforms and you don't implement the reforms that should be. Similarly, the Employers' Association has one way of recording the position of the Republic of Croatia where the Republic of Croatia compares continuously between 10 similar countries and sees changes that have been and these changes are recorded. And that's where it turns out we're not very successful. And it's a real picture, or everyone's talking about reform. Reforms are not simple. That lady so-called. Mrs. Reform neither resides in this House nor resides in the government, reforms are painful. Because just as soon as you get into a story, then in that story you have to, as soon as you start to implement the reform, you have to blame someone. Likewise, we are all declarative of reform, but don't let it go in my backyard and that's the situation we absolutely have. What do we see from the budget? We see that there is an increased picture or investment in islands, in assisted areas and in hilly mountain areas, which is absolutely to support. But you always have to compare it to some execution, so when you see that the execution was a little different, then you wonder what the reality of the budget is. I will, for example, mention one item in the Ministry of Regional Development and EU Funds where activities and items related to the subsidy of the company, agricultural cooperatives and craftsmen are provided for a decent 131 million kuna, which would be no problem if it were not seen that only 3.5 million kuna was realised last year. So, on the one hand, you can predict some big item, but you always have to see what happened in the previous year, and you always wonder if there's going to be some kind of important and strong step in this year, and then in that sense there's going to be some kind of change. Likewise, there is one little thing that even shows the situation in which we live. I often wonder if at some point I'll wake up and see if the situation is something different. This is something the finance minister probably doesn't know, and little things all over the budget, but it shows our picture. Last year, in this House, in two readings, there was the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Forest Advisory Service. In this law nothing has changed, except for the name from the advisory service to the agricultural forest advisory service. In two readings, in this House we pointed to the following, which is a change, the change is that it will cost new records, that it will cost a new one, so some new memos, 308 employees, 308 will get new solutions, so it will be the new head of the service, and then there will be new solutions for annual vacations, indicating what it takes together, why we do it. And regardless of all that, most of them passed the Law, and it went into effect on February 15th. We are today November 27th, November 27th on the Committee on Legislatives, the item of the agenda, we are putting this law out of force because we are abolishing this service. This service will now be no more, but these employees will no longer be, they will pass on to civil servants, therefore, from public to state, some things will change and now after those incomplete year of it we have given up, it goes on. The result is once again a new board, new solutions for the year, new solutions for people, some will take over, someone won't. I'm asking why we're doing this. Do we want to have a country or do we want to play state? And all of that results are read from the budget. I can agree that in terms of the budget measured in billions, this is one little thing, but there's a lot of such little things. Equally, the topic of infrastructure. Several, on several occasions when we speak from this pay phone, we are talking about sustainable development when we should explain it to someone who is sustainable development, which means that regardless of which country you live in, you have about equal conditions everywhere. And we know that we don't. Different conditions in Zagreb, different conditions in the areas by the sea, different conditions in Slavonia, and in fact the budget should be sensitive because more investment there in terms of infrastructure and in terms of working conditions. And there's this part that's tied to islands, assisted areas and mountain-mounted goods. But when you put all these areas on the map of the Republic of Croatia and we have 556 municipalities and cities, when you put all of this together, it's about 100 that's not like that, these are all in a certain way assisted areas. So I wonder where we're going? What are we doing? What are we trying to accomplish? Equally, what is important to everything is one of the conditions for something to be sustainable in terms of life sustainability and conditions is basic infrastructure. What Croatia would say, I would say no matter what beautiful, is developed road infrastructure. But when you compare road and rail infrastructure, then there's a big difference, or a big imbalance. And what we know, we know that road infrastructure still needs to be invested. Railway infrastructure, so we have like Croatia that, some form of bird or muffin or whatever you want, you have this one horizontal, you have one vertical that was made long before our time. But if Croatia wants to be a developing country, then it is necessary to invest among other things in rail infrastructure, not only in the tracks but also in the rolling stock and all that is needed because it is safe, independent except for extreme weather conditions. For Croatia, absolutely these links are more acceptable than they are aircraft connections. But what we do not see through this budget, we do not see that it has decided to invest further, or further. Maybe we're gonna do a little bit more work-related and budget-related and related to some of the steps that should be. You must always measure yourself with some other countries, or countries, we are measuring ourselves with EU countries and watching where we are and what we are. And now that you see what's going on out there, they've gone one step further in terms of energy. So those who are wondering about road infrastructure and vehicles whether to use electric cars or to use biofuels and in that part have certain subsidies and then I was interested in how they rated us on the scales of doing business because there was something about the supply of electricity. You know how? So now you want to build your multi-state building and in several floors you build and parking places, I always have a picture of Zagreb, no one will blame me for the simple reason that this is a city that I live in and that I care about, and now you decide to build two more underground garages of public parking and you decide to build a car charger. You know what's gonna happen to you? When you come for the electricity consent in HEP you will pay further for the increased use of electricity or you will have a much higher price for previous and final electricity consent. So instead of having incentives to encourage even renewable energy choices in terms of environmental protection in this way, we punish those who do so. And therefore, among other things, this fall of Croatia on the scale is doing business and that is why we do not have a step forward. The same way you see this incentive problem throughout the budget. So we encourage the development of the island, we don't mind, we encourage the development of assisted areas, it's necessary in terms of sustainable, we encourage mountainous areas, it's good to encourage. Let's just see the result of these incentives. Now, here's the key question where all these incentives are and when we're going to see and what we want. The key question is that it should be the economic and development policy of this country which will know what kind of Croatia we want not in 2030 but 2050. And this budget should be a small wheel on that road, but we don't see it from this budget. This budget is like that, I wouldn't blame anyone too much, we'll give everyone a little bit so everyone will be equally satisfied or equally unhappy, we won't make any historic leap in the sense that we're going to make such a big decision and somehow we're going to make some kind of balance over it all together. Since I am a born Bjelovarčana, and since it is a city that I care very much about, I cannot not refer to that fast road that ended up in Farkasevec and did not end up in Bjelovar because it does not mean anything to Bjelovar that she ended up in Farkasevec. This fast road makes sense when it continues towards Koprivnica on one side and towards Bjelovar on the other side. I have traveled my entire youth and my entire college by bus from Bjelovar to Zagreb and I knew exactly what number of bandits is from Bjelovar to Vrbovac and from Vrbovac to Zagreb. Now, there are no more Vrbovacs because we have a fast road but when we go out there to the Križevci or there in Gradec there are still other bandits who can still count them and nothing has changed there. And then you enter the budget that we have, the item of the Croatian roads and they there say that, the Farkaševac section – Bjelovar but 2020. So that's that model, that's where we're going to put it, it's going to be, when someone says we can't say we have, but we haven't solved the problem until the end, or the topic wouldn't matter. In this sense, we will, of course, give the amendment, the GLAS Club and HSU will give a number of amendments, where it is primarily talked about infrastructure, then the amendment, which concerns, therefore, on the subject of education is absolutely appreciated, that education and a step into education is the key thing of this country, as well as where those weakest persons for assistants continue, for the help of persons with disabilities, where they decided to leave the same, or reduce, we decided through this budget to put some other items a little bit together, to at least leave there on the same. Finally, as there is no reform, it is difficult to expect a step in the budget. He's technically correct, we have an income side, we have a dispensary side, no one's minister is there, it's too much, that someone cut her something, all wishes and greetings has respected her, but there's no reform, there's no steps, there's no light, here we are now decided to be Croatia in which we're going to develop, I don't even know what it might be anymore, we're going to be Croatia, where incomes will depend on personal consumption, will depend on the sun, will depend on good weather, will depend on tourism. The expenditure side, we would not want to interfere, so whenever anyone has any desire to do so, we will also determine the minister and the diameter, as well as we who talk about, that there is no increase in production, that there is no increase in exports, so I ask you what it will be in the future, what Croatia imagines to be in 2030. Is it a country that will be in the sense of the sea and in terms of climate change pleasant to the life of the pensioners of Europe, so if that is okay, maybe that is some decision, maybe it will be a safe country, so people will work not know in Vienna or Bologna or Munich, but live in Croatia, and that's all we need to know, we need to know now, for the simple reason, which is the situation, which we have, which is real in Croatia, we will certainly have the next hundred thousand jobs, which will have no one to fill. And young people, who finish colleges, which is said to be, the question is whether they can find more work in Croatia, we have no problem being colleges and not making sure that those who finish, end those jobs they are looking for have packed bags, do not try in Croatia, those who can stay, stay, but go somewhere else because the message that is sent from Croatia is absolutely wrong messages. Based on everything I've said, the GLAS and HSU Club will not support this budget, but we hope that some of the amendments will be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106520	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent representatives, and time will be shared by the respected representative Robert Jankovics and Maria Puh, please, first colleague Jankovics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106521	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Being the last club to tell your vision of this budget has its advantages, has its faults. One of the disadvantages is that a lot has already been said, but I believe that some of the things that have been said here before me, if anything else, for the sake of the Croatian public should be repeated, and that is that this budget has several features, objective indicators, which show that trend, which we decided, when we adopted this government's programme in 2016. So from objective indicators, we can conclude that the growth of gross social product is 2.9% as predicted in 2019 in these circumstances is a success. The success is not based on borrowing, but based on sound foundations, i.e. on the reduction of public debt, which in these two years decreases by 2 million euros and continues this trend where, in percentages of 2016, 80.2% of the public debt in GDP, we plan to reduce it to 71.6% by the end of the next year, so we meet all those requirements of the preventive part of the Stability and Labour Pact and we are approaching the stage where we can plan and introduce the euro. So, apart from GDP growth other than reducing the share of public debt in GDP, it is very important that Croatia improves credit ratings twice in this 2 year period. We are now a millimeter away from it, to get some of the next increase in the credit rating into the investment area. So these are 3 objective indicators of this budget, this plan of the Minister of Finance, on which we are based in 2019. And I must add, that despite all that has been happening to us in the past 2 years, so from Agrokor, drought, flood, fire, political instability, despite current skeletons, Uljanika and 3 May, we achieve all these results together. What can be objectively, and so can all the esteemed viewers, if they look at the Croatian Parliament's website, see that the income and expenditure difference is the least since in Croatia's newer time, so we spend 4 billion kn more than we will earn next year. I remind you that not so long ago it was 15 billion kuna. So on the income side, we have a VAT that we're planning in a plane with this year, and we know that in 2 tax discharges we've reduced VAT to a number of items that we've left money in taxpayers' pockets. I hope in the pockets of taxpayers, not in the pockets of merchants. As far as the cost-saving sector is concerned, it was clearly increased where it was in accordance with the 2016 government's programme of solidarity, so we have a rise in wages again, we have an indexation of pensions, which is 1.2 billion kn, for all those who think that 50, 60 or how little, when summed up, to the amount of pensioners, we come up with an annual increase of 1.2 billion kn. As far as the most important items are concerned, we consider in the club, where we increase, therefore, the increase on the spending side of solidarity, i.e., the young families, where therefore, finally because we pay all the other 6 months of maternity leave to our parents. We reduced VATs to complete equipment for all newborns and therefore subsidize loans, as we heard it is over 5,000 demands already at this stage, only it is an additional 468 million kuna as planned for 2019. We also have objective increases for which this country has fought for a long time. One of them is the increase that we must introduce, therefore, the cost of the Presidency of the Republic of Croatia to the Council of the European Union, or the preparation for this Presidency in 2020, which we must finance during 2019. It's a great honor for our country. In addition, the objective increase is to increase the expenditure on the work of the European Union, or part that has come to us with Brexit or the United Kingdom from the European Union. What is even more important is that we see from year to year that the reduction in the cost of interest occurs as every time a smaller item, so the cost of interest every year is a smaller item, and this is due to the skills of our finance minister, or by refinanceing debts by reducing interest. Of course, objective and favourable circumstances on the financial market. As for the problems that arise in this budget, they did not arise during this government, we deal with them, or the government that we support deals with them. This is primarily the cost of pensions that we are planning in 2019 at 40 billion kunas, of which in revenues, which are the second largest income item of the state budget of 24 billion kuna, which means that 16 billion kunas of taxes that we collect from entrepreneurs are therefore spent on pension payments. Obviously, we also have a problem in the health sector that was increased in 2019, and I'm afraid that without a more courageous move in this sector, we're not going to achieve much. And of course we have what our colleagues pointed out, which is an increase, the withdrawal of funds from the European Union. We believe everything Minister Žalac says is that the stage of the treaty has reached a stage where in the next year, a year and a half, we will reach those percentages of the withdrawal for us foreseen funds in the European Union budget that we all hope for. So, when we speak, these were objective indicators as to how we see in the club what is important, possibly concrete, so that the budget of the Republic of Croatia is 80% fixed with costs to make this system work. So we have the possibility of moving around 20%. I am happy here and locality that in the budget, therefore, the continuation of the construction of corridor 5C towards Bela Manastir as the only representative from Baranja is an extremely important thing for us Baranjac and not only the Baranjac, but for the complete eastern Croatia. What is important for us at the Labour and Solidarity Club, reformers and independent representatives, and we have talked about it in the past week, I will take this opportunity, so again we have submitted the amendment. We want to, and we would like everyone to support us in doing so so to provide free textbooks for elementary school throughout the country. So that's not something we find inconclusive. The assessment of the value of this investment to call it that is about 300 million kuna, which is 0.2% of the total budget. So that's our proposal. I, probably there are colleagues here who have been in politics longer than I have, very rarely we have had so many positive comments from parents, so many positive comments from people who, in August of buying textbooks, looking for work notebooks and everything that goes on, who would make it easier and which one organized system would make it easier we rarely had so many positive comments and rarely got as many positive comments as when we put it out. So I call once again on all, we have also stated in the programme of the Government under education, science and sport there is our intention, the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to coordinate the costs of education and education with the financial opportunities of the family. If we care so much, and I know that this government cares about us so that the governments can stay here in the country to give them another chance to at least if the primary school is required to provide free textbooks. I'm sure it's not such a big item that we couldn't solve whether our amendment, our amendment to the government or otherwise. No party has heard from any political party in Croatia since the proposal was on the table. I ask that we respect this to adapt to this and to find a way to resolve it or to settle it already in the 2019 budget. We have submitted our amendment and invite everyone to deal with it seriously. Without amendments, I still need to say, we are here and Vice President Radin has invited us to clap Davis Cup for representatives of the sensational success, victory in France in the finals of Davis Cup. I can say two names, now fast on the google looking for a socialist wreck and a dinosaur stadium that's our Maksimir. So no one had talked before from the club about the need to coordinate the final sports infrastructure with the sensational successes of Croatian sports teams, mainly football after the World Cup in Russia. So there's no sign of that in this budget. So, if we had any way of considering whether we could finance textbooks then it was clear that it was even more difficult in this budget to explain why we would suggest that some of the stadiums comply with the phenomenal successes of the Croatian football team and, above all, not to be called by foreign journalists as a socialist wreck and a dinosaur stadium. This is what the Croatian Football Federation and our representatives have been talking about since the World Cup ended. It would be good if everyone who can think about it and haste to deal with it. To the end before I give the word to my vice president, Mrs. Puh, so what's important is to say that the draft budget is always a matter of trust. Whatever this budget says is best seen by one man and his team, it is Minister Maric we trust in the club. Of course the budget is a matter of trust. He's a good minister and let's fix him with this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106522	Thank you. The distinguished representative Maria Puh will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106523	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's to the president of the club. I'd just like to get in touch. I believe it's not easy at all and I would never want to be in the skin of the finance minister, because I know how hard it is to reconcile all needs, all wishes, all ministries, all units of local self-government, Parliamentarians and others, and I think it's pretty good at it and all the honors of it. Now, about the budget itself. What I would like to point out first, and what I am particularly proud of and what I am very pleased with, is that for the first time, we do not have any partial solutions to solve the rink problem. The rink is unfortunately a problem affecting my county, Krapina-Zagorje County, in fact the north-west part of Croatia, the ring around Zagreb, Sisak-Moslavina County, and every year, new rinks have opened up, unfortunately units of regional self-government have never had enough resources to manage to resuscitate the situation that occurred on the ground and from year to year only double the costs of a possible recovery, this year for the first time, we have one complete solution, which is in the Budget and which has passed the place in the budget of Croatian Waters, where 50 million kunas will be provided to go to that one systematic recovery, and I hope that in some 3 years we will have a largely solved problem on the ground and that we will not only accumulate more than possible to recapture only new and existing slides that I hope will be less and less. Also, as the major president of the club mentioned, very good items are found at the Ministry of Demography, where we went with various new measures for maternity and maternity benefits, because we know ourselves how much each kuna means to new parents and how much it can contribute to the whole and in some way, it may be a small drop, but it is a drop that makes a huge waterfall that I believe will contribute to a much better demographic situation in our country, and ultimately prevents the emigration that is a terrible threat to us. What I would like to mention is that I and my colleagues, Šipiš and my colleague, Tušek, have submitted an amendment, which is related to the development of mountainous and mountainous areas. We had this year in debate and the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and the Law passed the first reading we expect through the following year that a second reading will come, and we believe that the figure currently foreseen in the budget for these areas was not enough with the fact that some 60 units of local self-government would enter the hill-mounted areas, up until now some 30 million kunas for that purpose, I think we should have a little more wind in the back of those units of local self-government, so that they could handle something more concrete, that at least 700, 800 thousand kuna, that they could make some concrete project that can be seen. After all, we have an island law that's really been working for a few years now, and it's my desire that, over a few years, the mountain-mounted law be in that status and come to that level of the island law, because actually when you look at it a little bit more detail, there's no big difference between mountain-mounts and islands. For example, a citizen from a settlement that lives, perhaps even an air line, or a time line ride 15 minutes to the capital of County, unfortunately needs to spend more than 70 kuna on a bus ticket and if he is lucky to have a line that drives in the area. A large part of my Krapina-Zagorje County, and as far as I've heard it happening in other counties, there are fewer and fewer lines connecting the border municipalities with the centre of the County, not to speak to hospitals or eventually to the capital, which is the City of Zagreb. We should simply give equal opportunities, equal chances to all, we should help units of local self-government to adapt as much as possible to the municipal infrastructure as possible to the needs of their inhabitants, so that it does not happen to us, so we are always talking about emigrating young people, moving Croats from Croatia. I wouldn't want the same to happen by moving from rural areas to urban areas. My Zagorje, which is actually an hour's drive from Zagreb, where you can actually live perfectly well in beautiful green banks, for an hour at work in Zagreb, I'm afraid if the infrastructure is not good enough, unless there's no good traffic connection, if there's no infrastructure like kindergartens where they can leave the children on guard, if they won't have the opportunity to get to the doctor quickly, that emergency assistance comes to them, I'm afraid they'd rather choose to live in an urban environment, and that would be one big damage and never want to happen to Zagorje such a depopulation, because I really think that there's a better and more suitable place to live. And here is the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and this measure that we want to increase a little more mountain-mounted areas of one large part also applies to Krapina-Zagorje County, as well as to other counties in Gorski Kotar and Varazdin County. I'd just like to hang on to some free textbooks, so the amendment we're going to make on behalf of the club. I think we need to work on as much equality as possible and the chance of our children. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that primary education is free and mandatory. The first step that was taken was the transportation of students who had been solved, I think the next step to which we must go is that everyone has the right to get free textbooks, that we don't have a parents panic in August, that they don't know in which way to patch up their own home budgets anyway, to secure books for their children, so let's first of all, with basic school, provide them with free textbooks because that education isn't something that I think should be in social censorship. And in the end, you have a situation in Zagorje where the municipality co-finances textbooks to its students, while, for example, the neighbouring municipality does not co-finance. You have a neighbor next door with a case, a community border between them, and now a friend has free textbooks and work notebooks that will wait for him at school, and his other friend who lives, I don't know, 100 meters away from him, unfortunately, that's gone, and his parents will instead be able to buy him the better equipment he needs, so that they can give him some other extracurricular activities, they'll have to spend that money on buying him textbooks free of charge. Let's make equal opportunities and equal chances for everyone and start with textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106524	Thank you very much. We're done with that now. I'm sorry, we haven't yet, we still have one club of MPs, and that's the HSS on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106525	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here is on behalf of the HSS Club several reflections on the 2019 budget, 2020 and 2021. In fact, the government wanted both these and previous budgets and future budgets to consolidate public finances, reduce public debt, and this is based on increased investment in the economy, new jobs, support, exports, development and growth of tourism. However, this budget, planned with 136 billion on the revenue side, which is slightly more than 140 billion on the spending side, can read that the current trend in growth and public income and public expenditure continues. The budget expenditure for 2019 shall be planned at an amount higher than 11% compared to the 2017 plan and 6% respectively on the 2018 plan. GDP growth was 2.9% in 2017. Growth forecasts this year by the European Commission, including by the government, are around 2.8%. The expenditure of the central state, therefore, grew faster than total economic growth. The trend continues in the 2019 budget as well. This rapid growth in budget expenditures since economic growth has put additional pressure on the real sector on family agricultural economies, on crafts, on the overall economy, and on the quality of life of our citizens, or on household costs. The continuation of tax expenditure growth at rates higher than economic growth threatens the overall economy, and the current growth rates of GDP are far lower than the growth rate of the economy comparable to our neighbouring countries and we often compare with them, and that is, above all, I think of Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and in the coming years, we may also experience lower growth rates of 2.5%, which is certainly not enough to maintain the existing public and external debt or maintain the existing state of overall well-being. Through these budgetary messages, through budgetary policies, we also send a message that, given the government's growth in public spending, it does not plan for more important sectoral reforms, nor for a faster improvement in this direction. When it comes to revenues, income from VAT and excise duties is still the most important budgetary revenue. The 2019 budget plans a surplus of revenue compared to operational budget expenditures of 2 billion and 669 million kuna. However, on the spending side, a total deficit is planned outside budget funds and public companies of 5 billion and 762 million kuna, of which 2.6 billion relate to health insurance deficits, 3.1 billion kunas for Croatian highway deficits and 0.7 billion for Croatian water shortages. All government portfolios, so all ministries have increased their expenditures, so we can't talk about any winners or losers when it comes to the ministries and ministers themselves. And due to the increasing expenditures and deficits, the budget can also not be estimated by development. The lack of a consolidated budget, which will ultimately amount to over 4 billion kuna, is almost double that of the implementation of 2017, and for the amount of the deficit, the government will have to further increase public debt, i.e. to go into debt and thus increase financing costs. What we are particularly interested in from the HSS is the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Policy regarding the implementation of these policies and how this is reflected on the ground. The fact is that we are growing imports of agricultural food products, that domestic production is falling and that most agricultural food products do not have self-sufficiency in production and announced tax relief or reduction of VAT on certain food products, of course, we welcome it, but we consider it insufficient because VAT on these products is still in the environment lower. I already spoke in Slovenia 9.5%, Serbia 10%, BiH 10%, we put 13%. Why didn't we go below to be competitive, so our citizens don't go shopping for the same products in the Bosnian Ship, the Bosnian City or Serbia or Slovenia. Of course, there are also some positive examples because we have repeatedly pointed to the problem of cattle farming and how cattle and milk and meat production can certainly be a generator of development, not only of cattle, but of other accompanying agricultural industries and therefore we welcome the provision of 65 million kunas in the budget to support the livestock production of 5 million kunas to support the development of sheep and goats, 3 million for the cow-body system and we are immediately asking the question and where is pig-eating gone? It is not in the budget, and it is not good, because when we enter the European Union in 2013 we have not used those transitional opportunities to further help this sensitive sector, we have experienced a terrible decline, that we are now over 75% of the pork imports and we are very little and unless we are in the Budget to help this sensitive sector and we would have to find ourselves on that list, there will certainly be a further death of swine fever in Croatia, especially if it threatens us in the environment of the emerging African swine fever, and if it does happen then we can say we will not have any more pig husbandry in Croatia, and therefore, on behalf of the HSS Club, we will be investing an amendment to help and pig farming like these three sectors. It is also illogical to reduce VAT on live cattle, to meat and not to reduce to dry meat products. Especially what we have made one step and brought together our producers and equipped through different support measures so far we have a series of quality manufacturers and kitchens and sausages and other dry meat products and we are not going to help them with the reduction of VAT, and also one of the problems that certainly weighs this sector is also lack of production capacity. Mr. Minister, here is the brief Srijem County, along with the town of Otok and the culinary producers cry out for a modern slaughterhouse that would have sufficient capacity to help them because the existing capacities in Osijek, around Slavonski Brod, are not enough for slaughtering pigs, nor for processing, nor have an export number to appear on the international market and there are already buyers for these products, so that at least the funds in this budget for project documentation and land purchase proposed by the people of Vukovar-Srijem County would help this sector further. I also want to highlight the problem of suppressing the disease of vineyards, of our golden jaundice, of a viral disease carried by crickets, where only 5 million kunas are provided for in the Budget, only at the request of the Istrian County and where there are other counties and there are problems already in Međimurje, in Krapina-Zagorje and there is still this cricket vector of this virus, which will certainly appear in Slavonia and it is not good that we plan to contain this pest and this disease with this little resources. And I'm sure it should've been reinforced there. I would also like to point out here a problem that has disappeared in the Ministry of Agriculture from the budget of support for events and fairs. These are those events organised by the Ministry as co-sponsor, advisory service, municipalities and associations and this was the only opportunity for our family farms to present themselves, show their product and something at these fairs they sell. Now that's being erased and the question of whether it will support these manifestations, whether there will be fairs. You see these funds disappeared from the Budget and you know what didn't go away, or what happened, there was an inspection, customs, police at a craftsman's fair in Brod, at a fair in Vodnjan, at a fair in Tinjan ham, where they went immediately with punishment, they haven't unpacked the stall yet, and now they can think someone's going to cheat the state because they're going to sell there 5 or 10 liters of olive oil or 2 prosciuttos. So let's not train them to be strict, let's let them have some kind of market and that they can place their product or that they can earn income from the same, and on the other hand we keep that space because these people will stay living in that space. And what I've already told the prime minister is unimaginable to us if we want to develop industry, create new jobs, have comparative advantages through the wood industry, the wood-processing sector where over 50,000 people who are export-oriented are working, we are now reducing support to the sector from 80 to 40 million kuna. Why? So did they develop so that they can handle themselves or do not need any more help, and most of them, when you talk to them, say that they still have a problem with the placement on the market and that because of the weak or strong kuna, there is no support in this sense they should continue to help them to want to invest and develop their production capacities and I see no reason why these funds have fallen. We lack real development projects when it comes to agriculture and the economy. Through the Ministry of Agriculture, four, five projects are co-financed through the Slavonia Project and well that the funds have been allocated, but here, I point out another project that is not covered and it is a technological-innovation incubator in the municipality of Brod Stupnik, which passed through the ITU Slavonski Brod with the amount of 32 million kuna with the amount of 27 million kuna, missing 5 million kuna. Why not join the project Slavonia and Baranja and be co-financed by national sources, only municipalities and counties will not be able to finance this difference from 5 million kuna and this is significant for hundreds of family farms of different kinds of producers of fruits, vegetables, honey, meat etc. and would certainly further enable the economic development of this region. When it comes to the economy, it should be pointed out that nearly 3.2 billion kuna is allocated to the economy, i.e. it is planned in the 2019 budget, and it should be said that there is also a positive example to encourage investment with 71 million kuna, research into innovation with 20 million kuna, through the human potential of support for young craftsmen and entrepreneurs around 26 million kuna, but what is not good, because through these programmes support that go from the Ministry are all craftsmen and entrepreneurs in the same opportunity, but not in the same bar, because it cannot be one who is from Slavonia, like from undeveloped areas being a competitive craft or entrepreneur from Zagreb or more developed regions. Can't the one who's gonna run to play football with the one who's got the diggers. It is simply not possible and it is especially necessary to stimulate projects from Slavonia, Like and other underdeveloped areas to get for their projects in the beginning of several points in order to get to these development funds we propose that this was the Ministry of Agriculture that left a special fund for financing development projects, that the Ministry of Economy, and that we will invest the amendment, create a special fund for co-financing and pre-financing and preparation of projects for our craftsmen and entrepreneurs from these underdeveloped areas, because they cannot be put into the same basket, in the same match with those who are closer to the market, who are more equipped and more developed, and I think that this should be accepted and accepted as such. Because there is no even development in Croatia unless we invest more significantly in these undeveloped areas. Because how did Maria Teresa move in with Slavonia? Well, because she was giving privileges to people, craftsmen and people who settled there, whether they had free-dwelling woods and made a revenue from selling forests, they didn't pay taxes, they didn't go to the army and so on. So we need to design a program and projects for such environments that people are moving us from, that this is no longer happening, that is, to stop the eviction. Here, too, this fund would be one of those measures, where it would certainly help discharging and supporting the economy that works in these areas. Because sure as we, I've already mentioned the problem of the wood processing industry, we need to invest further and help them, and we're reducing resources. We have the metal processing industry, we have the problem of consolidation, the financial, capitalization of Đura Djakovic, everything has been quieted down, and they said they will take care of him, along with a good master, so if we ever get rid of Petrokemija Kutina, and Đuro Đaković in Slavonski Brod, I think our citizens from Slavonia, Mr. Minister, deserve it. When it comes to education, here are a few words, I only point out that it is important to invest in science and education, because without it we will certainly continue to lag behind in economic development, compared to the countries that I have already mentioned, and it is certain that there is an important network or expansion of the University and the Faculty in Croatia. And since 2015, when the decision was made to establish the University of Slavonski Brod, we have always had some obstacles and never solved it, so here is the beginning of this year and the Constitutional Court said that there is everything in accordance with the Constitution and that there is no reason not to go into the realization of the University of Slavonski Brod. And I heard this morning the HDZ Club, which is part of their representatives, has tabled an amendment. So why isn't the Ministry in the beginning when it already has all the bases, because it's also made a draft that was delivered to the Ministry, why didn't it start with the funding programme in the budget, but it has to go with the amendment? I welcome and I will support that amendment. And I'm going to make an amendment myself because I don't think the proposed amendment is financial enough, because only 5 million kunas are scheduled for next year, and only the City of Velect that already plays or works in Slavonski Brod and spends 10 million kunas annually, the Faculty of Engineering 24 million kunas. So that minimum needs about 50 million kuna, not 5 million kuna, and I think it's unserious from the amendment promoters, and almost there's a financial elaborate on the sustainability of the University of Slavonski Brod from which it can be read. And here I'm asking that, if you're already talking about the university and that you have to go to the university, then also with adequate means to track it down so that it can live. It is also important to expand the network of primary and secondary schools, to go to the student and that all those students who are in rural areas have the same quality conditions for schooling as those in Zagreb, or Rijeka, or Split, because the fact that there are still some schools that are not fully decorated, which are not equipped with cabinets, and there are schools in Slavonski Brod for children with special needs, where more than 6 months ago the minister told me that this school is going to be built, that we have to resolve it again by amendment today, or Friday. Why? If it is promised to go, why is it not put into the budget, but it must be resolved by amendment, and it is promised to these children, there are over 200 with special needs in development and certainly are not quality conditions in which they maintain their teaching in Slavonski Brod and that it is time to get rid of it. I would also point out the problem of building school sports halls. We have several in the area of Slavonia and also in the area of Brod-Posavina County where the municipalities have prepared project documentation, issued a building permit, some and started building to keep their construction permit as Dragalić, but it is not possible to provide these 3.4 million kunas to build a small one-piece hall in the municipality. And why am I pointing that out? So here we all boast about the success of tennis players, football players, and where did they all come from? Well, it's from such small backgrounds, from these elementary schools, from these halls, from those enthusiasts who taught them and trained them, and they have no conditions. And why would there be a problem in those environments where we traditionally have the desire and the need for children to also deal with sports, not to get sports halls, and that's where we're going to invest the amendments. He would briefly refer to teachers' salaries, and it is good that here the Unions were negotiated, although it is not good to have teachers, teachers, teachers again, because they carried out the burden of the crisis. We all need to know how many times they are, their pay cut, and speaking when economic growth comes, they're going to go and pay up, and now suddenly it's not happening again, but they have to put pressure on them, announce strikes and so on, so that something can be solved, and still not as much as that pay that was then reduced, six years ago. And I think they deserve to get rid of it, and it's good to talk about it and plan it in the budget for the next period. When it comes to health care, there is no longer a minister here, but there remains a problem with the recovery of hospital debts. Last year, I commend the minister that he has allocated a billion and 200 million kunas to the recovery of old debts in hospitals and is then a part of that funds placed in Slavonia, but today these hospitals are doing negatively, and now there is also a problem with the health homes, because there are not enough doctors of family medicine, and there are no incomes and additional patients are suffering, because they do not know when they will have a doctor in their village, although there is a equipped infirmary like in Vrblje, and what day to go to the doctor or not to go. So we need to take health reform more seriously so that there's no waiting lists like, here's how long we have to wait, almost a year to check out the occult or what I've shown for the brain's magnetic resonance where I've been getting an answer in some hospitals for over 300 days to have to wait. This can't happen anymore. You have to find models to reduce waiting lists, because that's what people expect us to do. And of course here's all the praise for a good tourist season. However, it remains in a certain way sorry for us from the continent and Slavonia, from Baranja, to invest too little in continental tourism. And again what the Croatian Tourist Board invests most of it ends up in Istria and Dalmatia. Models must be designed to develop tourism in both Slavonia and other continental areas. And here's hoping that some of our amendments will be accepted and on that basis we will decide how we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106526	Thank you very much. Here, now we're done with clubs. Let me tell you, we have 46 individual hearings reported. It is if there is no replica at all for up to 1 hour we will stay, so let's go, now we will start with individual debates and the first to report to the respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106527	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. Mrs Grozdana, a colleague of Grozdana Peric, spoke on behalf of the Club of Representatives, expressed the club's position on the issue of the State budget for 2019. So I would talk more about the part where the state budget touches, regulates, prepares, plans a number of projects in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Before that, I would clearly say that the budget is as well conceived and truly developed, and socially sensitive as the demographic recovery function of the Republic of Croatia, and that all these attributes of the state budget are based on a concrete macroeconomic indicator that predicts GDP growth next year by 2.9%. What gives additional legitimacy to this budget is the fact that the 2018 budget, as well as the 2017 budget, is based on the data growth of GDP exactly as we have witnessed at the end of the year. I am saying this for reasons to show that the budget that the Government has made is absolutely founded in macroeconomic indicators, and therefore it is also feasible and I am convinced that the government will draw it exactly as it has drawn it out that at the end of next year we will bear witness to its implementation in the frameworks that it is envisaged, with what the Prime Minister said this morning in his opening statement, which is that regardless of what we are planning the State budget deficit for 2019 is 0.4%, for 2020. 0,3 and then for the 2021 surplus of 0.3% that we will bear witness to next year's budget, given the fact that the government is still testifying above what I said and the surplus in the state budget that would happen for this year, in which we are now at risk of the activation of the investment of guarantees in Uljanik because we have witnessed for the first 6 months a surplus in the state budget of about a billion and 600 million kuna. I only say that for reasons to say that the budget is justified in clear, real, feasible and from previous experience with realised macroeconomic indicators. What I would say in the section relating to Dubrovnik-Neretva County then certainly is the fact that in this budget is contained in the part and positions of the Croatian roads the most important infrastructure project, a transport project in the Republic of Croatia that we will implement in this financial envelope, the first financial envelope by which the project is marked by the first period of Croatia's membership in the European Union, which is the Pelješki bridge. The project's value is with VAT of 526m euros, which will be realised in 4 phases. It is an important project for the Republic of Croatia, given that it represents the death of territorial discontinuity. But what is important, it enables the economic development of Croatia's far south, in the first row of Dubrovnik, Dubrovnik's hinterland, Peljesac peninsula, Korčula and Mljet, and this project for me was needlessly stopped 6 years ago, because if it had been continued with its realization in accordance with one slower dynamic of construction we would not have witnessed the complete destruction of major Croatian construction companies that were involved in the project and we would have really been today, we could talk about a more significant, stronger Croatian construction operation today. But what is it, there it is. It is good that this project continues, that it is realised and that it will enable me to say one economic recovery primarily of Peljesac, but then clearly other parts of Croatia's far south. What is also mentioned when we talk about Croatian roads, it is several projects in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The reconstruction of the road in Mljet. Then finish entering Cavtat and another very important investment is the beterment or reconstruction of the state road in Zupe Dubrovačka, which is today the only road connecting Dubrovnik with the border and Dubrovnik with the airport. The project should therefore be implemented as soon as possible in view of the state of play with the study of the economic justification of the construction of a fast road at the Chilipi Airport which should be in the next period. But until then, until it is realised I welcome the fact that Croatian roads continue to beterment or reconstruction of the state road through Župa Dubrovačka, which will greatly speed up, will facilitate traffic through the parish of Dubrovnik itself. What I would also single out in this budget is projects of Croatian Waters in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretva County and in several projects that allow for full water supply. We are witnessing that the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is the coefficient of development, the development index among the first three or four counties, depends on what criteria are taken into account. The fact that a significant part of this county, for example, the Pelješac peninsula still has no water supply solved throughout the area, is finally completed in this budget for the following year by the water supply of the central part of Peljesac, the village of Janjina, the municipality of Danjanje, and that central part of the Peljesac peninsula, which is the value of an investment of about 15 million kuna. Although this adds to the reconstruction of the water pump station in Trstenik, I think we will allow better water supply to the westernmost part of the island of Pelješac and the island of Korčula, which is still, which is based on the water supply site in Neretva. So I would especially single out these projects that, in large droughts, prevent quality water supply, an extremely strong tourist part of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is the western part of Pelješka and the island of Korčula. What I would like to ask and what has already been said in the talks with Croatian Waters is water supply of one part of the Municipality of Norinska, investment is not small amount of about 15 million kuna but it solves the question of a space that is very important in Neretva, it is... and the municipalities of Kula Norinska, which deals with Croatian waters so that it can be realized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this morning, Minister Butkovic cited the most important transport infrastructure, capital infrastructure projects that the Ministry of the Sea, transport, infrastructure solves and whose funding is provided by European funds, and has singled out 28 ports of county importance across the Adriatic coast, whose construction, i.e. through the realisation, will make a much better connection between the Croatian islands. All these ports, all these 28 ports are almost all in the function of transporting Croatian islands. So I would especially like to single out what is important for Dubrovnik-Neretva County, which is the port of Perna in the area of Orebić or the new port of Polacište in Korcula, and two investments from somewhere around 110 million kuna are contained in this large project of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and Port, Vela Luka, a new ferry port in the port of Vela Luka, reconstruction of the ferry port in Ubulje and completion of the construction of Luke Trpanj. So these projects will indeed be completed, it is one of the better transport connections of the island of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, but in the project, numerous projects have been provided along the Adriatic coast that connect Croatian islands in a transport way. And clearly then aware of the fact that at its meeting in Hvar, the government also adopted a programme that has realised a number of investments that have just been established this year in the state budget. So here's what I'm going to end up with, I support a budget like this. I have singled out those projects that are very important for Dubrovnik-Neretva County but certainly in the first part there is the realisation of the building of the Pelješko Bridge as one of the assumptions and preconditions of the development of the far south of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106528	Thank you. We have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106529	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Bačić, when you spoke about the financial plans of the state roads and about the road crown of everything actually connecting the land with the Peljesac peninsula, but not only that but also the other access roads, i.e. the bypass... Not only that part, I'm glad the government noticed long ago, and in this year, it actually gave significant funds for the wolf's knot, on road D8. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague of Bauk is not here but also for Ložićsće, i.e. the Ložićsće bypass on the island of Brac, because they saw actually the neurolgic points and this summer. So in a row, a series of road directions like that actually got a lot invested. Since it is 7 thousand and 200 km of state roads and when you see the means for regular road maintenance, investment maintenance may not be too much, but I think that amount has been evenly deployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106530	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, fellow Babic. While this morning Minister Butkovic presented the projects of the Ministry of the Sea in part of road transport infrastructure along the Pelješko bridge, he singled out the most important, most important road project, this is a bypass of Split, so the merger, the balance sheet from Solin to Omis, the completion of the section, given the suffocation of the city of Split, not to say the city of Omis and the entire space... on the side that defines and allows quality traffic and even the possibility of living in those areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All of us who pass this part by traveling from Split to Dubrovnik or towards Omis, in the summer months know what traffic jams are in that space. This government has found opportunities and is approaching the realization of that part that I did not say in my opening part, thank you for this replica, because it will really enable the realization and extremely important roads for the Split-Dalmatia County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106532	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I will comment on a single project related to our region of Dalmatia, it is one project of integration and the island of Hvar with highway A1, we are talking about the common road Ravča-Drvenik. This road, we have a contract of Croatian roads and highways from 2005, we have a location permit from 2006 and a share opening in 2009 where you officially opened that stock, we're talking about a 750 million kuna common road. We have one memorandum signed by the mayor of Split-Dalmatia County and 20 cities and municipalities, including all the towns and municipalities of the island of Korčula and are constantly lying about this one project because I do not see it personally in the financial plan of the Croatian roads for 2019 and it is extremely important because of the activation of the port of Drvenik, because of the traffic from the ferry port of Split and the activation of the eastern part of the island of Hvar and the island of Korčula. I really don't know and the government had a meeting in Hvar, said it was going to be this project, and I can see that there's no longer any financial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106534	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106535	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, the Pelješki Bridge was also started in 2009 and their realization started, and later the SDP government suspended the project. There were several other projects, which were planned at the end of the south of Croatia at the time, including the tunnel that connects Vrgorac with Drvenik, to allow quality traffic connections from Hvar, the eastern part of Hvar and Korčula, and this project is indeed one of the most important projects. I think the minister said this morning that the project and the tunnel project through Kozjak, also something the Ministry, i.e. Croatian roads are thinking, in this first part, unfortunately this project is not scheduled until 2021, but I agree with you that this is one of the projects, which are very important for the space of Vrgorac and that part of Split Dalmatian, and would also say Dubrovnik Neretva County.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106536	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be that respected representative of Sunda Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106537	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic, thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, as we have heard many times today, the planned budget must be and should be in function of economic growth, and as planned, I would say that it was actually done with sound foundations. Since the start of work or the start of this government's mandate, the focus has been on consolidation of public finances, reducing the expenditure side of the budget and, of course, to make a plan within the limits of possible or simply put it down to 2 words, to spend rationally. The budget is a fundamental document concerning all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, all who live here, all those who operate here. So let me just remind you, very briefly, that the allocations may have been made by the ministries after that I will elaborate something that is particularly important, like the representatives of the 3rd constituency. I think it's worth reminding that, among other things, there's about 500 million kn, it's going to be for education. Equally $1.3 billion, it'll be for pensions. The Ministry of Environment and Energy, for example, will receive almost 10% more funds or about 300 million kn with this budget. As for the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, we can say that this will be the year, that is, next year, the years of major projects, something Bačić, of course, said about it in the focus of his interest, there is the Pelješki bridge, which is most seen on an increase of nearly 1 billion kn. The Croatian Defence Ministry will also receive an increase of nearly 19 million kn. In the portfolio of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, there will continue to be encouraging for young people, and there is a sense of increase, over 170 million kn. The Ministry of Defence has not had such a large budget since 2009. Of course, we can also thank the decision here, that Croatia will finally decide to purchase the multi-purpose fighter aircraft as seen and on the budget will be around about 250 million kn. As far as agriculture is concerned, it has been said today and, of course, each of its own resources or its own sphere of interest, it can say that never the funds are enough, but here are over 470 million kn and in the portfolio of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Health has already been elaborated several times today, but what we may have slightly put aside, and I think it is important, especially, for people, in those conditioned areas, it is the budget of the Ministry of Culture, it is not in such a large increase as some other ministries, however, what is recorded plus is the international center for underwater archeology and editing of the activities of culture, then archival activity, Croatian library for blind, library activity in general, theatre and musical context activity, the Croatian Audiovisual Centre will also have a slight increase, audiovisual activities and media programmes, museum and visual activity. So, a whole series of projects that are important so that we and our identity can preserve and develop our interests through it. In my debate, as I said at the beginning of the budget of the Minister in the Replica, I will specifically refer to the problem that bothers the people of Međimurje County and it is about one road project. In particular, this applies to our fellow citizens, who are on a daily or daily migration on the Čakovec-Varaždin road. It is currently the most frequent road in Međimurje County. As early as January 2012, then, at the end of 2018, a real environmental impact study was conducted for the Nedleliščina bypasses, which is also the largest municipality in Međimurje County and the Puščina, is said by colleagues and colleagues from 6.5 km long. The current state road D3 passes through areas of complete construction on both sides of the road, it is a road that is loaded with truck traffic, personal vehicles, agricultural vehicles, which is a critical part of the road and has a serious security aspect. According to the calculations, it's a parameter of just over 20,000 vehicles a day, and the future bypass could charge the current road by more than 40%. The reference is included, or the relevant corridor is also drawn into spatial-planned documentation in the spatial plan of Međimurje County, then the municipality of Nedelisce. The course of just over six kilometers would hardly cross the valley and unbuilt area. The crossing corridor is secured and there is no need to destroy or move any economic, residential or other object. The estimated cost of the entire route of traffic when the study began, the separation of the Environmental Impact Study was about 111 million kuna. In the 2019 budget at the item of the Croatian Roads, therefore, there are among other programmes of procedure on state roads in the plan to design the bypass of Nedelisce and Puscina. I'm going to give two amendments to this bypass, and it's about a change where I'm going to ask that this design that was included be renamed to emergency design. The second amendment also says that the beginning of the work starts in 2020. According to the latest information from the Croatian Roads, a public debate begins tomorrow. The final exhibition will take place on 11 December in Nedelisce, and by redistributing the funds, therefore, there is no distortion within the budgetary other items, I think the funds could be found. Finally no less important, I would only like to say when I talk about the Međimurje County, that the Međimurje County has a very low unemployment rate. Unfortunately, however, there are the lowest average salaries in the Republic of Croatia of 4000 and 473 kuna. Nearly 80% of employees in Međimurje County work in the processing industry and trade. So I think that the government's efforts so far have been achieved, and most of our people are working with entrepreneurs, craftsmen in larger or smaller businesses, I think it's on a good track. However, anything that will be able to unload or move towards the discharge of entrepreneurs or economies, of course, will be strongly supported. As for the other items related to the County of Međimurje in the budget, I think the time will come when we can say some more capital projects that we can go into their construction. There are many facilities that are necessary and as far as primary schools are concerned, a new home is needed for children. So, a whole series of projects that we can't say and we can't want to be achieved through one financial year, understanding and what I said at the beginning of my presentation, which is what we need to spend rationally, even though we would like more for our entrepreneurs, and especially for the workers for whom I once again hope to find space and that both workers can and in Međimurje County will at least get close to the average salary of the rest of Croatia. Of course I'll support this kind of proposal for a state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106538	Thank you very much. We've got replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106539	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Glavak, you have well noticed that in today's debates there was not much talk about funds related to the Ministry of Culture. But it should be stressed that, for example, as regards the Ministry of Culture and the care of our cultural identity, our heritage, ours both domestic and this art that is related to the borders outside the Republic of Croatia is secured somewhere more than 40 million kuna this year. So he is almost 1% of the total budget of the Republic of Croatia, so 1% of the funds. So in 2017 there were billions and 38 million kunas. In 2018, a billion 209 million kuna, and now it's a billion and 240 million kunas or significant funds for galleries, archives, museums and all of what you've actually listed, and I think this is a chance to stress it one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106540	Thank you. The answer to the esteemed representative, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Babic, you're right. We may not have talked about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia at all, nor have we touched the funds from which they, for their activity, for their promotion of culture, for their strengthening of identity. We didn't touch sports today. We haven't talked about some of the things we're really looking forward to when you look as a people we have the most smile on our faces, so when our athletes achieve good successes or when we move away from this cruel political reality and when we go and look at some good play or we enjoy some good theater show, so that's what we represent, that's where we can speak music in some other language. Maybe we could all use that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106542	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106543	Thank you. My colleague Glavak, you have touched the importance of building the bypass of the town of Nedelisce in your debate. However, you pointed out that nothing has been done since 2012 until today, except for the studies. I will just point out here that unfortunately the current government has not welcomed any more serious project that has been projected, so a building permit has been issued when we talk about the north of Croatia. So now, for example, in the area of Varazdin County, the fifth agglomeration is projected. Varazdin is built, but another 5 are projected worth billions and 600 million kunas. Defence is designed against the floods of the Bednja River, worth 120 million kuna. A shallow 60 million kuna. Spinal center in the Varazdinske Toplice values 90 million kuna. So, unfortunately, it could now be built if someone had made an effort before and projected it. I also note, of course, that a fast road is projected from Varazdin to Ivantz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106544	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106545	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Strick, when we say that the budget must also be something that will help, of course, and be in the function of economic growth, then I also think that all of what you have listed and we know for ourselves and parts of Međimurje County and Varazdin County may unfortunately not be so attractive to investment. But when you get an investor, when you get someone who wants to open a new job. Then we must also enable him or create some preconditions. That's why it's amazing to me, and that's why I'd like all those administrations that we call the administration to make sure that a) get the building permits as soon as possible, to come up with all the necessary solutions, not to take 6km of road construction for 10 years, but that we all understand the need for why it should be faster, sooner, and why we should allow the owners and thus have all the conditions to open up the plants, to open up jobs for our people to stay there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106546	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106547	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's something I want to say in this discussion about the 2019 budget with projections 2020, 2021 because looking at today and the portals and all the media, the fact is that this debate doesn't cause any big interest, it's hard to even find some news about the budget and the debate, we see also on the side of the opposition that, apart from the morning, there's just not some bigger remarks on this budget besides the standard dissatisfaction that anyone can make, you find some activity that you don't like and you say no budget and we go on. That's why I think it might be good that before and before the debate itself, it's mostly about the budget that we're comparing because we've heard that it's often said that this government doesn't know what it's doing, that it's bad, that it's wrong, that everything used to be better. So when he says one thing, if he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn, we can compare to the numbers. We can probably understand that and it's all written down somewhere and that's to be found. So by looking at, say, the year 2015, which is kind of a reference on the side of the income, we had an execution of 109 billion kuna. If we look at 2018, it's 129 billion. Almost 20 billion more in revenue. It can't be ignored and said it's wrong because... Something's not... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we look at it next year, it's another 5.6 billion more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, we're looking at the expense side and there's the growth of expenditures but looking at all of the greater possibilities have appeared ahead of us, in front of the government, and probably with the citizens themselves. In view of the issues that have been inherited, they have also been resolved. The very procedure of the excessive deficit that we entered in 2013. Last year, the first surplus was reached. It was possible this year, but there was another shipbuilding problem, and it probably won't be possible, and it might be. We will see the implementation of the 2018 budget. When we look at only the GDP values expressed in kunas in 2015, it was 338 billion kuna, it was almost the same as 2011. It means we've been doing something for four years and we've been where we started. And we say it was great, we were successful and it should be rewarded. Last year, the GDP expressed in kuna amounted to 365 billion, this year will be safe over 375 billion. Over 30 billion more than in 2015, everyone says it's wrong. I don't think so, because numbers don't lie, something still happens. Gross average salary growth, minimum wage growth, here's 2015. 3 thousand 29, 2018 half the term of office of this Government 3 thousand 439, 410 kuna more. Then in the entire term, 200 kuna. Public debt growth 211 65% of GDP, 2015, 86.3% of GDP, these are figures. 80 billion in kunas to solve all problems in those four years. Today we are looking at the last 2 years drop from 86 to 76 last year and this year, next year projected 71.2%, the whole 15 percentage points. And they say in opposition that it's wrong. So one responsible government that takes care of public finances and the relation to these public finances with all results should be declared bad but figures say something else entirely. We're not talking about a credit rating, all of this with another tax reform that released 6.5 billion in 3 rounds with a food reduction of 25 to 13, not all but one part that is very important to the family with decentralisation of income to local self-government. Here, I come from the local self-government of the island. I thought we were going to drop our income on that tax reform. We have about 10 percent of the income tax revenue this year. When we look at everyone else, I say the situations that you or have found in the authorities like the Agrokora situation, such as the privatization of Petrokemia, such as today's shipbuilding or the issue of completed or blocked or some other policies that have found us, it is clear that there has been a spending of large political forces but that public finances and budgets have had the strength and opportunity to overcome all of this more easily. And to answer that in the way we heard today, it's all wrong or you didn't listen to us pay or increase the untaxable part isn't 5,000 so we're all a few people, not to say where the rest is taken, like they were doing while they were in power by me isn't worth too much commenting. But looking at the experience, the results, the figures that can't be challenged, it's clear that we have a responsible government that's very concerned about how it's placed towards public finances that as many groups in the society as possible feel the benefits without jeopardizing public finances. Let's look at all the ministries. Almost everyone grew up in their divisions. I always see two ministries, regional development and the Ministry of the Sea. The regional development ministry in this year has almost 420 million kuna more than two years ago. Those aren't small funds. It's almost everything that's been achieved in the execution of that government that's being talked about today as some kind of superlative government. We have this co-financing of a very important item, European projects with almost 200 million kuna. Development of assisted areas 125 million kuna, 50 million more. Of that only for mountain-mounted areas 30 million increase by 100% compared to what we've had so far. What we see in the part of the island is an increase in capital support. Surely you can always do better and always more, of course. Looking at the Ministry of the Sea, over 8 billion kuna budget. A very important item in the county port administration of 64 million kuna. Rijeka traffic route 91 million kuna. Marine lines 316 million kuna. Railways and passenger transport almost a billion kunas in next year. When I look alone at the Primorje-Gorski County agglomeration of Rijeka 750 million kuna, Krk almost with 400 million kuna. We have other islands here. Looking at the investment in health care, the Clinical Hospital Center of Rijeka 150 million kuna. State road D 403 from Škurinje knot to port. Over 500 million kuna, the work should start next year. Being against such a budget especially those who say they are fighting for their end, it is more perhaps a question of some other relations, not what the budget actually is and in its essence. When we look at the Ministry of Space, Planning and Construction, we have an increase, a big increase in one item of energy façades from almost 90%, 430 million kuna, and housing credit subsidies are growing from 40 to 80 million kuna. The rest of the ministries, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Defence also increased the amount of 50 million kuna. I think clearly complex figures show that all ministers have assigned themselves a greater task than they had this year. More work, be more capable and realize all those amounts they fought to be inside. Surely we will have opportunities throughout the year and criticise and say what is right or wrong. But generally being against just being against because you're an opposition not looking at what the budget really offers and comparing to what we had, I think this is a good budget. Says one proverb: “No one has been born yet to please everyone. ” I believe the minister can't please everyone either, but I believe that through this budget he has worked as hard as the Prime Minister and the Government to give as much as possible to many groups as possible. Some are more satisfied, some are less satisfied, but no one has been ignored for sure. I think they're both ahead of us or in front of this government and challenges, really. The construction sector is something that needs even greater recovery from the former, and there will certainly be a problem. But with that I say we all have to fight together and find a way to really benefit the European funds that clearly sees through this budget really benefit in the right sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106548	Thank you very much. And there are several replicas for your exposure. He is the first respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106549	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Comrade Boric, yes, you mentioned a lot of numbers. That's something we couldn't hear on the other side of the assembly today. We've been listening to more floscules. But I would point out another number that you didn't mention. You said Croatia had a surplus last year, which is true. But what I would point out is other than the general government surplus that Croatia was in the primary surplus means when interest costs are denied. So we're only looking at the difference between current incomes and expenditures of $12.5 billion, which actually means that if we refuse what was inherited from before Croatia spends 12 and a half billion less than that of income. And with all that, there's funding and there's a way to finance all these things that you mentioned and they're the important things that need to be highlighted. I say more numbers, less demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106550	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106551	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I am, and in the debate on tax reform in this third part we were amazed, but they really voted against having less food prices, that we have a lower profit tax, from 20 to 12. To them, it was something bad. They put themselves there in a way that I can't understand. But probably that policy "the worse, the better" probably thinks that it might bring something to fruit, but somehow it runs towards a percentage of 10% of the ratings and ignoring this budget in a way that comes down to one debate that nothing is right by not really showing a number that is wrong, compared to what you've been doing is one infertile debate. I'm saying, but since it doesn't cause a big echo in the media, there's nothing to be surprised about. There's no answer to this kind of policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106552	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Pranjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106553	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Boric, you mentioned revolutionaryly that this draft budget is intended for 30 million kunas for the mountainous and mountainous region of Croatia. Are you aware of how many inhabitants live in the hill-mounted area of Croatia, and according to the 2001 census? Lives 200,000 inhabitants. When you share 30 million kuna of revolutionary aid to 200 thousand inhabitants, you get per capita 150 kuna per year. So you tell me how someone thinks they'll keep the population on Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagorje, Croatia's Zagorje system to help present 30 million kunas revolutionaryly to keep 200 thousand inhabitants? I'm not talking about two million kuna subsidies to entrepreneurs. So you know what entrepreneurs face in the mountainous and mountainous region of Croatia? And not just that. In the last law presented here on the mountainous and mountainous area, there was a talk of 35 million kuna aid. We all said it wasn't enough. Now we have a draft budget and it says 30 million kuna. So I really don't know what might happen, and it was expected in the second reading to increase enormously. We're talking about someone the table in that item. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106554	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106555	I know that you do not want to or do not need to support this, it is not necessary and that you come from these areas, but it would be correct and objective that through income tax and changes to that law you get a lot of funds, only you do not want to say it. Right? It's not insignificant 7, 10 units and 20 million kunas. This is some kind of help that's going to be shared through some kind of competition with these local self-governments, but when we compare what we had last year or before, 10 or nothing, then 30 is still a result. Whatever you think about it, and all the others and also available funds, all the other possible competitions that are being announced, so why are we just looking at one activity and that's what bothers us. You've made a story out of quitting one job and expanding the kindergarten, good for you. It's been written for a few days. Well, there's a lot of mayors and mayors who work and more and don't talk much about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106556	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106557	Dear fellow Boric, when you mentioned the large and million amounts in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County area provided for in this budget of over 400 million kunas in the camp, you expressed some kind of skepticism in the area of the Primorje-Gorski County. If anyone down from that area would be against this kind of budget that is so generous towards our end, then it would be pure pulsism that would remind me of those famous postcards that were coming to Minister Calmeti at the moment when the biggest investment from the state budget went right to the area of the Primorje-Gorski County. So, building a river bypass, St. Kuzam knot, a tunnel to Brajdica, the Gatra River and the Project, the launch of the campus. At this moment again, the investment cycle of the stopper in this budget is just planned for the area of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and Rijeka that I have no clear doubt that your skeptics could be realized so that someone would not support This is the budget from that neighborhood. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106558	The next individual debate is respected, and forgive the answer, the response of the respected Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106559	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so I can understand that someone against saying it said one minister recently that the best thing about these areas is when HDZ is in power and then there's a lot going on, but I just don't understand that we can approach this document in a way like this and say that nothing is wrong with all the amounts that are given to read clearly if everyone is writing. Even as they would be called by name and name and refer to a particular region, but good. I say the budget will be adopted and we will continue to prove in 2019 and 2020 that we know our jobs and deliver the results, that's what we promised the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106560	The individual debate will now be held by a respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106561	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. Now we have heard the debate that when we talk about the budget we need to concentrate on the figures and that the figures are what is in the budget main. Perhaps that is true because the budget is indeed a financial act and that should not be questioned. However, the budget is much more than a financial act, the budget is a political act. Its ruling political option, and today it is the HDZ with its satellites that defines the country's development direction in the emerging period. The state budget, such as in the case of the budget of units of local or regional self-government, might best be compared to some ID card of those who have received trust from citizens to manage their municipalities, their cities, counties or state. Why is it an I.D.? Because right from the state budget, we see the character of one government, or we see what is one government's priority, which is important to one government, and what it expects today or tomorrow to gain citizens' trust. However, despite the praises that we have had in the last few discussions of distinguished colleagues and colleagues on the right hand side of the assembly, and I will not speak of the performances of some ministers this morning, despite these praises, what this budget says about the character of HDZ authorities and its satellites is not so commendable. This budget shows that the identity of today's Croatian authorities is actually based on something that is most simple to describe as qw status and, as was the case with the rebalancing of the 2018 budget, and as I have repeatedly pointed out in both readings related to both readings regarding tax reform, this authority does not really want to do anything new. This government doesn't want to shake anything, it doesn't want to shake anything, it doesn't want to make any moves anywhere that could lead to positive but very positive changes in the Republic of Croatia today or tomorrow. And where do you see it best? On the rise of the gross social product of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, it is true that the Republic of Croatia is growing at a rate of 2.8% but respected colleagues and colleagues are less than all transition states that are members of the EU. The only transition state that, in the second quarter of this year, achieved, for example, a growth rate lower than Croatia is the Czech Republic, but unlike Croatia, the Czech Republic grew by 4% in the last quarter of 2017 and the first quarter of 2018. So when you draw one little longer line, you will realize that Croatia is at the beginning of the transition train. And what does that mean? That means we're just behind, we're behind the so-called. The old Europe, which we will never reach at this pace and at the same time be overtaken by all those countries by which we were practically by yesterday in spirit with some once positive, once negative Croatian insolence considered worse than we are. At this point, the only member state of the European Union that has worse economic indicators in terms of growth and GDP and many other indicators, when we look at the general picture, which is primarily about salary levels, about the gross social product per capita is Bulgaria. All other Member States are ahead of us, and with this budget they will remain. You're saying not to mention numbers. Of course we won't primarily mention the figures because, as I said, the budget is a political act. But since you've been looking for some numbers, then let's talk about those numbers that reigning today in their discussions didn't mention, and they're saying a slightly different picture than the one that wants to be shown to us. If you go to the street and ask our citizens which is one of the biggest problems that the Republic of Croatia has today, they will surely tell you that these are waiting lists in health care. All those who are being ordered for checks today during 2021 or 2022 feel that something needs to be done in the area of health care. Well, in our budget we have one, one part, one head under 3602. called Investment in Health Infrastructure, and watch out now 2018 was envisaged there 694 million, many will agree that it wasn't enough, but what we did for 2019 reduced from 694 million kuna to 537 million. One hundred and and more than 155 million kunas, respectively. Do you think the health infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is good? Do you think you should stop investing in it? Because the government obviously considers it because it does not fit at 537 million kuna in 2019. In 2020, this investment was foreseen in the amount of 255 million kuna and in 2021, 218. So there are obviously people who believe that the state of health infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is excellent and that they will no longer need to invest. Let us return just for a moment to the amount from 2018, 694 million kuna, which looked great at first sight. When we discussed the rebalancing we saw that out of the 694 million we were able to achieve only two-thirds. One third remained unused, colleagues who, now I don't see a colleague of Roscic who then debated behind me, explained to me that it was because the public procurement was not carried out, so the money was left and will be transferred in the coming year. And what happened? Over the next few years, it's been reduced. I guess we already know that neither in 2020 nor in 2021 we will be able to conduct public procurement. In particular, for the end from which I come, this means that the budget for the General Hospital of Pula in 2019 or the grants that should come from the budget will be reduced by 23 million kuna. In the three-year period including 2018, this will be a reduction of more than 40 million kuna. At the same time, I saw, for example, health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina, although investment in health infrastructure decreases overall, as we saw from 694 million to 537 million kuna, health care in Bosnia and Herzegovina will still be able to increase something. But that's not the only number I'm going to talk about. The second is the Ministry of Tourism. We were saying that this year we had a serious impact on tourism. There was an increase in the residence tax, there was an increase in income tax for small tenants, with a respected colleague Kleman, I had a good debate on budget rebalances, in 2018 we did not spend anything for so-called. The cro-cards that were part of the HDZ pre-election promise, from Mr. Kleman's period and his budget of several million kunas today, are provided for only a few thousand kunas, while subsidized loans that should help our small tenants to overcome these coups on them continuously remain at the same level as if tourism were of no importance to us and as a state, we do not want to help tourism to be better. And be careful now, as if that's not enough. We predict about 16 and a half million kuna every year, and then the rebalancing comes because we haven't used that 16 and a half million kuna for subsidies, and then we cut that down. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about the growth of the Croatian social gross social product. Tourism accounts for 20% of this social product and we do nothing to encourage it. And I'm gonna stop there, see that there's a lot of replicas, so I'm probably gonna get a chance to answer some of that. Thank you, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106562	Thank you very much. That's right. That's a lot of replicas. In turn, he is the first respected representative of Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106563	Dear counterpart Grbin, for you now is the status quo of the building of the Pelješki Bridge or the hospital on Sušak or the banal project which has been achieved these days from the Croatian to the Chabra road that opened the area. Is that the status quo and the banal projects the government doesn't care about? You're saying that all the Member States are ahead of us. They did because they entered the European Union in front of us because they had no war that destroyed this country, and they did not have to build a road from Zagreb to Rijeka, nor from Zagreb to Split. Why is the status quo? What are you talking about? If you like this country at all, you will raise your hand for this budget because it is developed and it is not a status quo because it builds and restores this country and thinks about its future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106564	The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106565	Of course, other EU countries did not build roads from Zagreb to Split, but they did from Warsaw to Krakow, from Bratislava to Kosic, but they did not have Bozidar Kalmet and did not paint tunnels on those routes 20 or 30 times. Dear colleague, you mention the hospital on Sušak. I'm absolutely not against that hospital. I need to build it. Many from Istria go to Rijeka, to be treated, because it is still the closest KBC to us. But, dear colleague, you did not in one single word deny the claim that 3602 investments in health infrastructure are continuously reduced instead of 694 million kuna, you asked for figures, here are the figures from 2018, in 2019, which is 537 million kuna. In 2020, that 255 million kuna. Dear colleague Klaric, you asked for numbers, now you've got them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106566	The next replicas of the respected representative Sabine Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106567	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Peđa, good thing you touched some numbers, HDZ also laughed at the Government of Zoran Milanovic when, according to the World Bank's competitiveness scale, we were doing business in 40th place, and now they've brought us down in the last 3 years for as many as 18 seats. I see that here some people are replicating you in a way that if you love this country, you need to raise your hand for the budget. Well, because I love this country, I'm not going to raise my hand for this budget, because this budget deprives about a million kuna for the rights to temporary child restraint. Just because I love these kids, I can't lift up, this country, I can't raise my hand for a budget that will cut 80 million kuna funds for guaranteed minimum fees for citizens and citizens living in poverty. Just because I love this country, I can't simply raise my hand for a budget that, for measures of active youth policy, active youth employment policy, will single out 150 million kunas less means, [[Intruder: Thank you]] I believe this government has given up [[Intruder: Thank you]] from encouraging employment, aware of that to their [[Intruder: Thank you]] There's no one to hire anymore because young people are gone, they're leaving. [[Intruder: Fellow Voters]] Ireland. [[Intruder: Don't do this]] And just because I love this country Here, colleague Peja, I want to tell you that I can't [[Agreement: Fellow Voter, you get a warning]] Raise your hand for a bad budget like this. [[Intruder: Please stop talking]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106568	Let's finally respect the house order, so I guess you've got some sort of house order at home. The answer of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106569	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned an active employment policy. When we discussed the Tax Reform, I pointed out a serious problem with the Law on Contributions. And that's that we've abolished the employment contribution. In this regard, in the Law regulating the question of encouraging employment, the contribution remained as one law providing for a source of means to encourage employment. And what's the consequence? What you just said. They're asking us for numbers. Now you've got another number. There's no incentive for employment. And as the Government of Mr. Sanader, there somewhere in 2004, as one of the first measures, abolished the measure of encouraging employment from college to work, Mr. Plenkovic's government is now doing so. What should help citizens to get to the quality jobs that will be kept in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately, is being abolished Here's your number of colleagues. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106570	The next replica of the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106571	Comrade Grbin, you said the figures show a different picture than the one that wants to be shown to us. Not just the numbers, but the discussions of colleagues on the other side. Let's just say, you said this was a political document. And now we've just heard that colleagues from HDZ, specifically from my county, from your constituency, say how much funds and what projects are going to our county, if we love this country and our end, we'll vote for it. And as an example of this, let's say, this is the highlight of rudeness, a colleague from Bakar mentions the urban agglomeration of Rijeka as a good project financed by this budget and therefore the PGZ should vote for it, and as the city of Bakar, he refused to enter the project because he said it was wrong and did not want to be with Rijeka as Mayor of Bakar. No HDZ mayor has entered the urban agglomeration of Rijeka, and we are now told here that we must support the budget because it is a good project. Obviously, they're double personalities because I don't know what they think in Zagreb and what they think at home.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106572	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106573	Dear colleague, of course we are all MPs who, when we vote, should take care of the interests of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But we're also people who come from a certain region, from a certain city. And when we open the budget, we need to see in that budget what's good or bad for the places we come from. You were just talking about the coastal-goran county, I mentioned something about Istria, but now I'm going to expand it. The General Hospital of Pula, therefore, was denied in 2018 by the General Hospital of Pula for more than 12 million kuna. Now, in the 2019 budget, we're taking down 23 million kuna. Furthermore, in 2020, we take it down to 2021, and so on, and it's said, they're praised that they'll build a hospital. And I ask you how they'll build when they move the money. I can't vote for that. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106574	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative, Anton Kleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Grbin, for my short term in 2016, one of the first visits to an Istrian County delegation headed by the mayor was with me at the Ministry to try to block the process for building a Pula hospital. So in 2016, the hospital stopped building. So the funds were deposited in the Ministry of Finance, nowhere was it moving, you know it very well, and thanks to good cooperation with Minister Maric, who was then Minister of Finance, we fired the funds and started the whole story. So, that's true if we're already talking politics and I'm convinced that we'll finish this hospital in time and it'll benefit the citizens of the Istrian county. As for, therefore, the CRO card, we discussed this with the budget rebalance, but I would like to say about the residence tax funds, that these are the assets in the first row, the assets of the tourist,
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106576	Time. You just got here, you could have. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106577	... Mr. Vice President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't mind, you could let Kleman go for a few more minutes, me, so there's this kind of local patriotism, so I like it when we talk. CRO card, you know that I had objections to it, but as I told you the last time, I think it was a project that could be done and repaired, so to remove all doubts, I was free to direct the current Minister of Tourism a representative question to answer us primarily to me, but also to all of us what would become of this? Hospital. The hospital has been projected there since the mid-2000s, 2005 when I was a member of the Headship we worked on how to coordinate the project of the hospital with the Space Plan, and so on. The hospital started building in 2015. In 2016, when you became a minister, it was built on a large scale and then at one point Mr. Oreshkovic's government came to a standstill. It's not the ones who were in the office in 2015. Thank you and forgive me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106578	Time. Thank you. Time's up, thanks. The replica was reported by a representative of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A piece of the replica was taken from me by my colleague Kleman, however, my colleague Grbin, we will continue in this tone as far as the hospital is concerned. Yes, in 2015 something began to be built, we all know that there were elections at the time, and it might have been a very convenient time to start an investment like this. He stopped the project and in 2016 it was true that in direct talks with the most responsible people in Istria County, the government agreed to help and this year the government kept its promise and you know very well that guarantees were given, it seems to me to be about 600 million kuna. As for your finding that the status quo is a colleague of the Grbin, I'll just remind you that I can't agree with you because the status quo is not an increase in pensions, an increase in funds for education. I understand perhaps the resignation that hasn't done everything anyone wants done, but I repeat, let's be realistic and spend what we can and for what we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106580	Time. Thank you. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106581	I love most when someone's trying to convince me that I don't live in the city I live in. Most of all, I love it when someone tries to convince me that when I walk down Zagreb Street in Pula, I don't see anything being built and that in 2015, when I was passing through my city, when I walked the streets where I go more or less every day, I didn't notice how the hospital was brought to the roof and how the construction stopped after that. I probably don't even have a memory when I had a press conference at the expense of the hospital in 2017 at the beginning of 2017. It's probably not my eyes or my hands that I've been checking the camera through, because it's been installed and a camera that can be monitored, and watched as construction at a hospital in Pula, as HDZ came into power, it stopped. Obviously, I have no idea what I'm seeing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106582	Time's up. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Grbin. Time's up. Anka's representative Mrak-Taritash answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106583	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, at the end of your presentation, you referred to the Ministry of Tourism. So when you take the budget and the income and the expenditure side, and you look at little who the winners are, who are the losers, although there is no express, as I already said in the name of the club, but the tourism ministry is what could go into the line of losers. Which is very surprising for the simple reason that 20% of our GDP is based on tourism, tourism is important to us, we should invest, we should have some other modes, but that's not the case. So when we believe in our own eyes, not in someone's own words, and when we go into the budget, then we see that there's a dubiosis, that there's a problem, because otherwise we've tied the income side to tourism, we've decided to give the tourism ministry a decision, tie our hands to do a little less work, and I have to admit that I don't understand what that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106584	Thank you. Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106585	Dear colleagues, I cannot agree with you. Namely, the tourism ministry is to express a loser in this budget. In fact, the tourism ministry's budget has lost 40 million kuna, which is 20% compared to some other budgets. 20% is to express loss. If we were to watch the rebalancing, then it would be a lot bigger, but we're not going to because there's one, it's a court dispute between the football alliance and the tourism ministry. So all we need to look at is what was in the unrebalanced budget. And do you know the item within the Ministry of Tourism on which the grate of this reduction is? Of the 40 million kuna, 35 million kuna is a reduction in a section called the promotion of tourism development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106586	Thank you. That's what we used up the replicas. Representative Ivan Shuker reported on the individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. Well, it's good to say that the budget is the most important and powerful leverage to run the economic policy of a government. However, when we reach certain positions of the budget do not create those today, the revenue side of the budget we had the opportunity to create last week when we talked about tax laws. That's what I said back then. And definitely this government then sent a message that, knowingly for the benefit of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies, it has denied slightly less than 3 billion kuna. And the revenue side of the budget is as it is, it is clearly defined and it is most relying on so-called. consumer taxes, therefore, primarily on value added tax and excise duties. However, what is on the revenue side, and we did not today talk about the potential of the Croatian budget and the potential of all users, present and future users, and these are European funds. And today, in that position of the state budget, we have spoken in a completely guilty manner. Instead of seeing whether we have the potential and the strength to make quality programmes, to withdraw as much and as close as possible to the funds, and to influence increased employment in such a way that we also influence the resolution of some of the problems that we are now solving exclusively from the state and local budget. The media were fighting today, in fact today in a parliamentary debate, how many people have agreed and what has been agreed, instead of looking at this position in the budget in one, active, proactive way and seeing what we can do through that position. The expenditure side of the budget, I'll say, that for many years, probably and even more years there will be several structural problems on the spending side of the budget, but at the same time, if you look at them most, they're wages, they're pensions, it's health care, but they're also a potential danger. Because what if there is a certain income disturbance, they're taxing, and you have positive macroeconomic indicators both of which are going to look for growth. The fourth structural potential problem of this budget is guarantees. Look, colleagues and colleagues today, no one has looked at a table of guarantees issued in the budget, and no one has looked at the amount of the security reserve in the State Budget Implementation Act. These guarantees are prescribed by law to whom they can be given, and they know exactly what they are serving. They serve as help to restructure, not help to survive. But if that non-restructure doesn't happen, then we have what happened to us now with the Oilman. And we can come all the way here. Today you heard, the former Deputy Prime Minister was talking about the 2011 deficit. 25 billion. And you know how he came to be? They have adopted a total cost of restructuring and Croatian shipbuilding to join the EU, from 10 billion to 2011 budget. So what happens now? So this Oil 3. May was due to be restructured, for four years they've been getting some help from the state budget, unfortunately, they haven't been restructured, and that's why they're here today where they are. If they had restructured, they wouldn't be where they are. And that's a fact because he can talk to whoever he wants. The same is true with Croatian railways, so these are facts, and when we talk about the state budget, we have to keep that in mind. Also, we are in years of historically low interest rates. We are in a position for investors to see us differently because of fiscal consolidation, because of the exit from the excessive deficit measures, the situation in the international market is like this, and they think in the past 2-3 years we are in debt at a far lower interest rate and we are refinanced loans from past years, and in such a way we have reduced the amount of interest from some 11.5 billion from 2015 to slightly less than 10 billion of this year. However, if such a trend is not further, it is something that can be a potential danger. I've got a good guess, the other five minutes I'm going to dedicate to what today is not a debate in this House of Commons, but very often it's the subject of political bickering, it's extra- budget funds. First of all HZZO before 3 or 4 was saved, we extract it from the treasury, we will solve all the problems of Croatian health care. However, what do we have today? Today we have one part of Croatian health care, which is financed through HZZO, you have one part of health care, these are clinical hospitals that are financed through the Ministry of Health. And what is far more important, the government has provided HZZO with an additional billion and a half income on the amendment of the Contribution Act. And if certain structural changes are made in the health system, that may be the amount that, in future times, could be the one that will not generate new losses. Because at this point, we have about 3.5 billion health obligations, there's about 8.5 total of 8.5 billion. So of those 8.5 3.5 came through. Also, what weighs each of us at local level, which can only be financed from these funds, can especially help units of weaker budget, which are Croatian roads and Croatian waters. Look, Croatian waters have their own budget of 2.5 billion kn, today the financial plan of Croatian waters is not mentioned here. It's like every Croatian house has a tentacle in the yard and we're all happy. So no one cares and no one thinks how these Croatian waters work. And when you look at the extra budget funds last year they had a positive balance of a billion and 900 million. Now it's set, if they had such a positive balance, what wasn't done? However, why are we talking to extra budget funds, so because in 2014 someone remembered that Croatian highways should be taken 40 lipes, so 20 lipes gave HZ infrastructure, 20 lipes were given to Croatian roads, I would be very interested in livingly, which is these 20 lipas, which is about 485-486 million at the annual level, which is structurally solved in HZ infrastructure with these money, which has improved? And whether that guarantee HZ infrastructure gets from the state will be charged, or if they will be able to charge themselves. The same story of the Croatian road, those other than those of income, which they have when registering a vehicle practically have no other income than these 60 plus 20 lipes. But if we gave someone 20 lips from the state budget then it's a logical thing, I'd be very interested to see the financial plan of HZ Infrastructure, HZ Travel Traffic, HAC, HRZ, HRT. Why? So because ESA 2010 methodologies are covered by the general government and they enter into the general government deficit. And then how are we going to discuss the general government deficit and talk about it while we don't see what the financial plan of these extra budget users is? And the question is, if we were to discuss out-of- budget users, if everyone touched those roads or those sewers or waternets, would 10 minutes to discuss the individual in the state budget be enough in this assembly. But I think the time has come for us to discuss a little more about extra budget users with these users who, of course, are budget users who, based on the proposals of the resolution ministries, have their own position in the state budget. So, to conclude, given that this government has inherited the excessive deficit measures, since the deficit was over 10 billion kuna, the consolidation that has been made and that there has not been this sudden protested guarantee from this oil, the central state would have been in plus, the government has started with pension reform, and here we also have an agreement with the unions today, but we also have to count that next year's wage funds will have to be 5% of the points plus that part of this deal that will be higher in 2020 than 2017. So, Mr. Minister, one good piece, in line with the situation in the environment, and I think this budget proposal should be supported because of all those social benefits that have been increased.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106588	Thank you. You have a series of replicas, the first replica was requested by MP Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106589	Dear colleague Shuker, you mentioned the Uljanika guarantees, May 3rd, because the guarantees that have fallen on this government's burden that this other side has not said anything about tonight. We heard from the other side where some hypocrisy is mentioned even insults at a personal level. Is hypocrisy if the mayor of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County after the missed investment of Marišćina is responsible or leaves the same to Marišćina some kind of municipality of Viskovo let her deal with it. Or someone who took away the status of mountain-mounted mountain cotter, Lici and others in his own time, and now stands up for them. And here is something to mention, every single unit of local self-government, every city and municipality in their own way is fighting and attracting EU funds. And there is no need to forget that these same cities and municipalities, so here it is, and my city is fighting to secure those 60% of its own funds so that it can have attracted 9.10 or I don't know how many millions for any investment [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm on my way to the realization of the project. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106590	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106591	My colleague Klaric, I said that when I was talking about EU funds that he was practically creating for himself how much he would take and that's what it's all about. However, when we talk about guarantees I remember thinking it was in 2009 when we simply couldn't give a guarantee on May 3rd then, of course, the County and the City of Rijeka at their congregations made a decision on the guarantee, so I said OK, if so, to see which bank you would be credited, eventually the state was saving the matter again. However, no one here will say that on May 3rd, it was attached to the Uljanica 2 days before the government's decision to join the EU. And if the Uljanika guarantees had gone out in 2014, in 2015, and I repeat that the Uljanik has been restructured would not have come into the problems it is. And what the government is now helping with the salaries, if they are not restructured, unfortunately, the oil oil which is Pula's pride, the pride of Istria, the pride of Croatia cannot exist, but obviously this system that began to create losses and he would normally do business. must be restructured [[Intruder: Time.]] [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106592	Thank you. Representative Grozdana Peric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106593	Dear colleagues, on this left, mention investment in health care and do not want to read the figures and work hard to read the figures that in the four, therefore in the equipment and additional investments in health care in 2018 increased by almost 2 and a half times, from 295 million to 766, and in this 2019 another 11.9% means 858 million kuna means for the equipment of additional investments and all the material that needs to be contributed to a better standard in health.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106594	Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106595	My colleague Perić, it is best to see the position of health care in 2015 in the budget and to see the position of health care in 2019 in the budget. And that difference best shows how this government has created a lasting source of income for health care. It's not someone's father who remembers, so now they're going to resuscitate him with 400 million or 500 million, a father who, by some kind of political arrangement, gives a hospital this apparatus or one, but with secured permanent sources of income, provides the Minister of Health to run one of the policies and purchases of the instruments as he thinks necessary and most meaningful. And you can only do that if you have a secure source of income, if you don't have a secure source of income you can only beg father someone to give you or not. I sincerely hope that these 3.5 billion will be covered, that the Ministry of Health will find internal supplies, because if you pay someone in time, then probably that huge bonus you took and compensation for non-payments on time to reduce [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And in such a way... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106596	Representative Miroslav Tudjman, reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106597	Thank you, fellow Shuker, you spoke of items that were not spoken of that you argued with structural solutions and how they were actually done and we don't know the consequences. One of those things that has not been talked about is the full information program of the state administration and the information structure. Because if this were to be talked about as a whole national programme then a series of these programs, a series of these data that we are discussing today would be synthesized and available for discussion. I don't think there should be items in the budget by the finance ministries of this information infrastructure, but I think the time has come for us to start discussing it as a national programme and that we know every year what will be done in the coming period because without it simply without the fact that we can't talk seriously about the budget without everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106598	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106599	Thank you very much. Well, Professor Tudjman, you've actually given me one replica that I'm extremely fond of. The introduction of the OIB began informing the state administration, however, at one point it was stalled. In order for the OIB to function, the state administration must be fully informed. The inter-intelligence of all the systems of government without talking about any resolutions has no efficiency without it. Because if we still have some kind of document to go to a few addresses, we simply didn't help ourselves or the citizens. Therefore, information is something that must be primarily done, which must be done practically yesterday and not today, and it is a prerequisite for one reform of the state administration, it is a prerequisite for professionalism, professionalisation and depolitisation of the state administration. Only with such a administration can we expect better results and what we have talked about with regard to those European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106600	Thank you. Representative Maximchuk is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106601	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Šuker, here is exactly what you said and talked about government guarantees, so this government signed a guarantee for Djuru Djakovic to ensure positive effects, consolidate society and a sustainable business model, thereby preserving jobs and keeping people in Slavonski Brod, i.e. in our county where we are grateful to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the other thing that I'm reporting for is this shooting that you said yourself in this assembly when one side is looking for something for its local environment, so there's an amendment that we're looking for money for the university and Milan Amrus primary school, so there's snapping right now why not this much or so. Of course we all expect a lot more but the academic year has been moving for the university since the 10th month, so we think this is... the funds for starting university work and for the 20th and 21st years that are significantly larger funds and we are sure that it will increase when a division is made... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106602	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106603	Thank you very much. As I was saying, guarantees serve certain companies in difficulty so that they can start functioning normally and start implementing a program that is sustainable. So is Djuro Djakovic a company that is of unmistakable regional interest to Slavonski Brod. The practically complete economy of Slavonski Brod was based on Djur Đakovic. Djuru Djukovic should also be seen as some economic operator for more balanced regional development and thus help him. And they if they have to be further restructured. And I'm sorry he didn't relive that osset when those armored vehicles were being run, then the Ministry of Economy signed a good programme, but it got lost somewhere. But that part of Đura Djakovic that manufactures combines you see that it works great, as I heard the other day that they receive 150 new people. And he only revived at that time by giving state guarantees and when he found a good strategic partner who produced it. And another important thing is that MPs provide initial funding for certain projects that they will certainly complete.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106604	Thank you. Time's up. Representative Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106605	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, the replica relating to two topics, is one May 3rd, another health care. So the third May problem cannot be tied to the SDP problem of the government. But it doesn't matter now. The problem of the Third May has arisen because of the irresponsible management of the Uljanniks and because of the failure to control the work of the administration by the state in the last 4 years. For what? Because the Third May as a healthy firm, it sucks out a 535 million kuna loan that should simply be returned to the third May, should be replaced by the current director of the administration and let the workers of the Third May work, it is a very simple solution. As far as HZZO is concerned, therefore, it's not a problem that's been pulled out of the treasury, but the problem is that the costs are not being rationalized. So your minister, and last year, and this year, he beat up a million and 300, million, billions of kunas. And he simply can't manage these increased revenues. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106606	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106607	I'll start with this last one, my colleague Jovanovic, how much did the outstanding health debt get when you left power in 2015? 2 billion and 800. Liabilities of 7.5 billion. Today it's 3.5, so three years, only one billion and a billion, it's gone up. So what's the big difference? And as for the Third May and the Oilman, thank you very much for asking this question. According to the Budget Law, someone who receives the budget is obliged to report to the Treasury on the funds spent. So the Third May received from the state budget the funds that were intended for the restructuring programme under the programme adopted by the European Commission. Any giving of that money to anyone else as a loan is, let's not be rude, no, so the word "criminal" is some kind of violation. You can't give if these are funds for your restructuring to someone else. So you had to inform the Ministry of Finance, not you, but the Third May that the funds had been given to someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106608	Thank you. Representative Miranda Mrsic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106609	Dear fellow Shuker, it's easy to say that the former are guilty and we hear it from your side all the time, and that's why they're ex-breathing and they're now flowers and they're looking at the light of the future and I don't think the future will be as you expect. And when we talk about HZZO, then it's clear that health care can always spend as much as you give it more than that. And the problem of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is not leaving the Treasury, but the problem is reforms that have not happened. Primary reform of the hospital system because without reform of the hospital system, as well as Minister Maric, the health system will not be resolved and will remain in the dubiosis will continue to create a minus in the health system, whether it is the left government, whether it is the right government, should have the courage to move into reform hospital system. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106610	Thank you. Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106611	Dear Mrsic, as far as health care is concerned, what you said, I've been saying for 15, 16 years. I didn't say at all that the person responsible for the minus in health leave the treasury, but I just said the opposite. Someone said getting out of the treasure would solve the health problem. Now you can see it didn't work out. And the other thing, read the phonogram of my argument, and find one inside a sentence that I accused someone of something. I was talking about facts. And if you're suggesting that two billion kunas should be taxed on income to raise wages, that's how you take money to local self-government units because that's their income, and that's what you did in 2014. You took a billion and a half kuna, which is facts. But I didn't say these billions and a half, but that's what I'm saying right now when you're replicating me, is it just that you pulled me by the tongue that I have to say, no?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106612	Representative Marija Jelkovac responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106613	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, you said well, this government, therefore, and some of its previous moves created conditions for this kind of budget, it is also seen from the policy that we are conducting, from the tax reforms that have contributed to the fact that the income side looks like this and this government has indeed shown through this budget what is in its focus, which is that it is in the focus of citizens and on the other hand that it is balanced and with this project part of the municipal infrastructure. But we see, therefore, in these rights relating to citizens, other than health care, education, that in fact the increase in all items concerning pensions and pensions where the increase of 1.2 billion kuna is, then the allocation of allowances for children, where there is also an increase of 336.7 million kuna, then social rights increasing by 107.2 million kuna, for subsidising housing loans, additional funds amounting to HRK 38 million are provided. Why am I counting all this? [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106614	The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106615	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelkovac, this Government, and with the change of tax laws and with the revenue side of the budget, and when you look at the expenditure side of the budget, then you will see that it has touched all layers of society to which money is to be given, which is needed. That's why I was also talking about extra budget funds, because if we went through these financial plans a little bit, then we'd see how much money is directed towards local self-government units. So the government has sent one political message, which is what policy it wants and can lead because it is one thing to want, and the other thing is that you can, in accordance with the circumstances in which you are and who wants to read it, read it, and it can paralyze these things. He can agree or disagree. But if I tell someone I'm going to increase, I don't know, pensions for 300,00 kn and I'm going to say it doesn't cost anything, 300,00 kn x 1.250,000, it's 300,000 x 12 months, here's 4 billion, when you ask where, Then they just come down with their shoulders. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106616	Thank you. Representative Maria Puh responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106617	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here, dear colleague Shuker, when you mentioned Croatian roads, investments and HZ, you reminded me of an item I forgot to say in my debate, which is the County Road Administration. Perhaps we should consider and see some way, we see that every year in the budget rebalancing process at the end of the year there are always funds to support the County Road Administrations for their maintenance and reconstruction. So obviously there are some problems in financing the County Road Administration itself, and we always get that in rebalancing, so about 100 million kuna, and there's no system, no way or any analysis of how to fix it, because there's obviously some problem, we wouldn't approve of those funds every year, so here's a suggestion that maybe when we're making the next budget we have in mind and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106618	Thank you. The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106619	Thank you very much, colleague Puh, I'm a little over the age, so then memory serves me well, 98th year the ZUCs were founded, but as a temporary character, something that needs to be privatized, so to maintain it. And their unsettled status between the Croatian roads and the ZUC then remained, unfortunately, the way it is. In the meantime, however, road re-ranking has happened, so many state roads have become practical due to highway construction, fallen into the jurisdiction of the county and larger cities, funds have been transferred, now the question is whether it is enough. So it's obviously one process that I think should be done all over again, given the thousands of kilometers of highways, given the different standard, maybe different road retegorization, different jurisdiction, and thus different division and those 80 limes that are obtained from one liter of gasoline.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106620	Representative Josip Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106621	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you mentioned what was not mentioned, this is the use of European structural investment funds, so I would like to emphasise only what is happening at the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, that the budget is planned for 472 million kuna more and that this is the cause of the use of such investment funds by the European Funds. I would also like to say that 5.3 billion kuna is planned and drawn, which is more than 809 million kuna compared to the current plan in 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the financing of the European Agricultural Investment Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, and the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Defence, which has been budgetally devastated in recent times, is now showing a growth trend of 0.6% every year and will reach during a certain time of those 2% planned to do so.../ Intruder: Thank you, time has elapsed/... They're finding it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Equally so. and the budget funds of the Ministry of Defence that have grown. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106622	Replication response, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106623	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Djakic, we're gonna go back a little bit. So, the logical thing is that in the Department of Defense this is happening. This is the only consequence of the movement in the budget, if when the budget came close to balancing then the logical thing is that some of the things that were neglected, you remember that we were in some period especially there in 2002, 2003 boasting about how much we reduced the number of soldiers and the logical thing is that now and the Ministry of Defence came in line. But I was deliberately in my debate when I spoke about EU funds pointed out this as the great potential of the Croatian budget, and the one who is resourceful, the one who makes the effort to make programmes to him is offered money. Now whoever doesn't want to take the money offered to him on the plate, our people have one expression for it, I wouldn't say it in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106624	Representative Tomislav Sokol is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you mentioned the Oilman, and that's one big subject, but there are some things that need to be put in context. So, what is important is that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union prohibits general state support, with certain exceptions, strategic sectors, research and development, etc., why? Because you don't want the state money, the taxpayer's money to be pounded into bags with no bottom. One of the conditions for Croatia's entry into the European Union was that such a practice in shipyards should be terminated. So, with what was a condition as you yourself said it was a restructuring of the shipyard and state support during that transitional period so that this restructuring could be carried out. And now we have a situation that those who were supposed to do it and control what was happening didn't do it, that before the 2015 elections they allocated billions of kunas of state guarantees that have now come toll and now on the other hand they're substituting this government. Do you think that's a little hypocritical after all?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106626	The answer to the replica, intercessor Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106627	Thank you very much. Dear Sokolić, look at the guarantee of the approval of the European Union, Sokol, excuse me, I call him Sokolić, I apologize, I apologize to this, so when you give it to someone, you basically put it in a more favourable position than someone else. And the European Union also approves guarantees for certain things. Therefore, when guarantees were granted in 2014 and 2015 to the Government, they were granted to it as restructuring aid. And this restructuring process has not been implemented and the government simply had to give new guarantees in 2017 and 2018. However, today 2018, when we look at all of this, we cannot give new guarantees again so that someone in two, three years will get those guarantees on charge and still have to give new guarantees for a restructuring programme that can last forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106628	Anka's representative Mrak-Taritash answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106629	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, dear colleague Shuker, for most of your discussion about the extra budget items, that is to say, you led a part of the debate with regard to Croatian waters. So that's what we really did on behalf of the clubs when we talked, when we discussed, otherwise we didn't detect the fact that in Croatia, which parts of Croatia do not have an adequate network? In doing so, the water network is not even a problem but is a problem of disposal, the problem is a wastewater treatment device, the problem is to use EU funds to build these wastewater devices for a simple reason, because there is one standard, which is that disposal must be solved and that it must also be defined and done in accordance with environmental protection. Let's say I see the state budget and the budget of the city of Zagreb all the time...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106630	Thank you, thank you for the reply to the replica, Agent Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106631	My colleague Mrak-Taritash, I devoted 5 minutes of my discussion to extra-curricular funds, I deliberately mentioned them, why, because these extra- budget funds are tanging all of us. And I just don't think it's a good idea for the budget and the budget reports in this high house to pass that we don't touch it. And then when it happens, God forbid it's a disaster, then we all know how to complain. However, if we had discussed this financial plan a little bit, so if we could see how much funds were used to maintain the land areas, which was not done, which was, the other day we were discussing the flood prevention law on the river Buy and there we could discuss some things, so I was only speaking in the context of it because these topics are far closer to some general issues than what the state budget looks like, because that is basically our duty. It is in our interest that for every project financed through extra-account funds, we fight.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106632	Thank you. Representative Curray has come forward with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106633	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, yes, you mentioned extra-accounting users and compensation for HHs specifically, for HH's infrastructure, therefore, in this proposal the budget is approximately 500 million and 482 million, respectively, predicted to be in revenue, in general, from the budget around 550 million will be given more than half a billion for HHs. Of course, it's a bottomless hole and we're all in one reel all the time where we're not going to realize the characteristics, the shifts in traffic if we don't invest in that infrastructure, because today from Osijek to 272 kilometers of road or rail takes a minimum of 4 and a half hours of driving. In the '90s it was 3 hours and 20, and not to mention the passenger trains we have to do it quickly by train and others where it's 7 hours, so on average it takes them about 5 hours, of course nobody travels on that train, and then we say we don't have the cost of investing because we don't have traffic. So we have to invest to get traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106634	The answer to the replica, Agent Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106635	Thank you very much. Croatian railways are in a special problem. Much of their infrastructure was destroyed during the Homeland War. One of the most important stripes is that of the so-called The Unska railway towards Split is unacceptable to us because it goes across another country but it was the nearest road to Split, but we simply, HZ can function but it needs to be restructured and today it is not clear to me why there is no town railway Velika Gorica – Zagreb, Zaprešić – Zagreb, if the line Long Village – Zagreb proved fantastic. In such a way, they would unload the city bus, unload city transport, without saying that it would extend to Sisak tomorrow and that Sisak would be practically half an hour from the city of Zagreb. So HH has space for some new lines, and also some lines if they can't function marketly, so better, people need to be transported, they don't care how they translate, it's important to have a ride to their destination.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106636	Representative Marko Vesligaj reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106637	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here it was mentioned earlier that this budget debate did not actually bring any attention to the media, I personally find it sad, because it speaks a lot about us as a country, in one state of mind which currently in Croatia, that the most important document brought by this Parliament, and I guess at least that's what we can all agree on here, the media almost doesn't report. No, okay. I repeat the budget once again as the most important document, there are always some winners, there are always some losers, here we are now in a situation that due to stable conukure this year's budget, with the exception of the Ministry of Tourism really, uh, there is a situation that the ministries will increase the funds they will have. Now we call them winners, we bury them a little bit beneath the surface, and let's see if that's how it is, just because they're getting bigger funds. Let's say, so much of the health care mentioned today, which is getting more funding, but we know what the liabilities have been, 3 billion kuna, the total debt is greater than 8 billion kuna, instead of now using this situation of increased resources for one real health reform that he needs to get out of this one spiral of loss, these reforms, these items for reform, there's no. A positive effect has one, I will mention it here at the health budget, and that is, it is increased emergency medicine funds, and hopefully, there will be no more situations that regional self-government units that now single out some 10 million kunas to co-finance emergency medicine in their fields, and that is the task of the state, let's say, of these 10 million kunas, even 2.5 million kunas from the Krapina-Zagorje County, that at least the state will now take it upon itself through this increased budget of the Ministry of Health, which refers to the Ministry of Health. A similar story with the winners can be repeated with the pension system, so the pension expenditure will be increased, primarily for indexation where 630 million kuna is foreseen, but for a large number of pensioners, this will result in an increase in their 60 kuna pensions. Can we then call those who are beneficiaries of pensions to the winners? It's hard for me. The local self-government also mentioned a lot, I said before, a positive effect made this year, primarily for cities, the municipalities benefited much less from that amount mentioned by the minister, but now the message sent in 2019, which is that due to these tax reforms they will have nearly half a billion revenue. This is not a good message with the situation as they are now facing, co-financing, of course funding, projects from the Eu Funds and many other things that are being put before local self-government. You can't raise a year's worth, and then you can say it's all great, and then another year reduce it. The structure of the budget, so we see that from year to year, here's the truth, we're growing these budget revenues, but at a stronger rate, we're still running out of consumption, so the expenditure should be 140.3 billion kuna, income 136 billion kuna, means a deficit of 4.2 billion kuna, and that's actually almost 2 billion kuna more short than it was 2 years ago. The picture now completes one data on planned economic growth that is far less than our planned consumption, so 2.9% and consumption increases 5.2%. The data actually show that we do not expect that Croatia is not expecting development and that unfortunately this budget is not developed, I do not see any point of change that should lead to this situation, so we are getting a budget that gives everyone little, but definitely too little to actually call all these sectors to the winners, so, no, the budget will not actually change the situation for a millimeter or the reasons why Croatia lags behind the countries in the environment and why, and the reasons why it remains without people. Incomes have been well increased due to these planned revenues expected from the funds, from the European Union funds, I believe that there will be such realisation, and not that we have a situation in rebalancing next year to reduce those funds for the amount that we have reduced this year, I think it was more than 2 billion kuna. Here is another part of this debate I would like to devote a little bit to considering this increased funds of some kind of redistribution that I believe should, which should be done, it is well focused of course on my Krapina-Zagorje County, but in general on one regional policy, di in many areas I do not see that one step that could have been achieved. The mountain and mountain areas, already mentioned here, are definitely, the amount of 30 million kuna is definitely too small to do what we want, which is, I'll say, I'll keep my life in mountainous and mountainous areas, because it's not just building infrastructure, it's not just building municipal infrastructure in those areas, it's certain measures that will make people, which are why people stay in these areas, certain measures that may, I might say, agree to settle in those areas, so do developed, Alpine countries primarily, I'm sorry that the law still doesn't have today, here we are now expected in December of the month, but I'm afraid there won't be any concrete measures for the islands that are well-made, and that's why this Law got one support, but there's an amount, I'll remind you, almost 120 million kunas provided, for mountainous areas of only 30 million kuna. The damage to the natural disasters, again only 20 million kn, and each year we end up in a situation where we need about 100 million kn. I don't understand why... The amendment, which is why we don't secure that 100 million kn and start building a good system, through which we will be able to make up for these damages for the elemental disasters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, the law is also in preparation, I'm sorry, here, and through the amendment I'm going to suggest, that this amount be realistic and as it should be, because 20 million kn, it's nothing over, and we know that every year we're facing elemental disasters. Two more things that would apply to Croatia's roads and Croatian waters, the first thing already mentioned, is the reduction of the amount for the bile, I consider one bad message from 80 to 25 million kn, it reduces and I will at least propose keeping this amount, and I also find it alarming, that no funds are provided in projections for the '20s. and '21. Mr. And another thing about Croatian Roads, which is financing for an unclassified road, i.e. 10 million kn, which applies exclusively to the winter service, just 10 million kn, for example in the area of Krapina Zagorje County, because of the harsh winter, last year they had units of local self-government 6 million kn, compared to what they planned for higher costs. And here I also think that we should increase and help local self-government units under these extreme winter conditions, which we can again expect to be. Here, there's only 10 million kn for the whole country. The rinks of Croatian waters, of course, I support the opening of these items but only 50 million kn, in the area of Krapina Zagorje County, the damages from the skating site are estimated at 112 million kn. And we now provide only 50 million kn for the whole country and there also we need at least some slightly larger amount to start with a glider recovery, because it's actually the same thing, the slides are the same with the substance as the elemental accidents, or, that is, fall into that category. I will propose two more new items, relating to Krapina Zagorje County, which I believe should be entered into this draft budget for 2019, is the first one project called the Scientific Educational Entertainment Centre of the ZES, which is actually a centre which... The EU is only Croatia and Romania, moving with the production of the project documentation and here, I will propose that amount of €2.5 million, which should be provided. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a project that has also given several ministries, the support of 4 counties, which has the support of scientific centres from the Republic of Poland, from the People's Republic of China, and I believe it will be heard that it will also enter the budget. And another thing as a new item I want, I will also propose, support the university, Croatian Zagorje Krapina, therefore, to transfer the founding rights to the state, the founders are now the county and several units of local self-government. Here, the county is one of the few that doesn't have, that high school status and that should provide 5 million kn, in support of higher education, I hope that here you will also find hearing. These are short amendments, which I will give along with my colleague Sinish Hajdash Doncic for the Krapina County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106638	Thank you. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106639	Thank you very much, Vice President. When we talk about the development budget, when we talk about demographics, you mention mountainous mountainous areas, we recently discussed the Island Act in Parliament, but I think it may be our duty to repeat it again, that unfortunately Slavonia becomes an island and Slavonia becomes a mountainous mountainous area. And what we've been getting from this government so far, are just persuasion that Slavonia and Baranja give something more, but actually give only what we actually own, it's a project of Slavonia, it's just one bad p.r. project. Here's just an example of the town of Beli Manastir, from which it officially checked out according to data that I have nearly 1,000 residents, officially checked out, so they are no longer registered at the Ministry of the Interior, but that they live outside the Republic of Croatia. Those who haven't checked out officially are at least five more times that. So the White Manastir if it's 5,000 centuries old, then we're happy, and it's 10,000. I don't see in this budget, not a single item, that will help keep people in that space.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106640	The answer to the replica is "Velligai."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106641	Well, here's how much I'm tracking this project, Slavonia, has an extremely strong media support. Unfortunately, I don't see any concrete things here yet, okay, the EU funds are being used, we use them at the level of all Croatia, I would really like Slavonia, of course, without Slavonia, nor can Croatia stand such a right on its feet, but here, if these funds intended for Slavonia are realised, and we hope that it will still be so, let's be optimistic, but I expect also for the north of Croatia, that a similar project, not only on p.r. The level rather than with concrete measures, I simply don't see them here in the budget, some of them I have now listed which should be put inside, because the north of Croatia, is one of the most developed parts of Croatia, there people still don't go in such a large number. But unless we give one real... , one real incentive to do so, then something similar will happen that is now happening in Slavonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106642	Representative Ante Pranic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll give you a replica, you'll probably understand this problem, I'll use my individual exposure, to further say what it's about, and it's absolutely about the funds for the supported mountainous areas. But what makes Croatia a record player in the EU? According to the number of children who do not go to kindergartens, 40%, we all know that this is a burden on the financing of units of local self-government and when we know that the European Council brought in a strategic document in Barcelona in 2002 that requires 33% of children to be in mangers, 90% in all other educational groups. In fact, we will see the biggest difference between rural and urban areas, i.e. that these small funds for mountainous mountainous and assisted insignificant. Because in Zagreb he reached that character, while you have 4 Slavonian counties, where 10% of children go to the mangers, and 33 in other kindergartens. That is, local self-government units cannot co-finance the price of a child, the economic price of a child, because they do not have strong fiscal capacity unlike urban areas, parents have less average salaries and normal that children cannot go to kindergarten. [[Intruder Petrov: Thanks time is up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106644	Time's up. The answer to the replica is "Velligai."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106645	Well, I'm glad you mentioned the issue of kindergarten here, and I certainly agree with you here in those studies that have been done, children who go to kindergarten have a fuller chance of having a better education and, of course, a better life later. If we had huge differences at the level of Croatia, we have some local units that don't pay children's kindergartens at all, or they're 0 kunas, and we have somewhere where 800, 900 kuna and more are paid. So, one message that we send to our citizens is very bad but all of this actually comes from a centralized state because if we had a level of income at some level, then it wouldn't happen, but here we have some unit of local self-government with 1,000 kuna per capita and less, and some have 10,000 kunas and more per capita, so there's something where the state should intervene and actually do a real decentralisation that Croatia is not yet.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106646	Thank you, MP Josip Boric answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106647	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my colleague Vesligaj, listening to Mr. Bernardic's debate this morning, and comparing it with your debate, we have a discrepancy in our minds. A colleague Bernardić ultimatically says increase the untaxable share of income tax from 3,800 to 5,000, and that money would probably be taken to local self-government of the region is 100% down to them, and you say give local self-government, give local self-government, give local self-government, so you need to agree on what you represent. 'Cause one says take it, the other says go ahead, no, and the party's the same. So it's not easy how you take it and let the government think about it so if he finds it and if he doesn't do anything. The funds for the mountain-mountan, for the supported and islands are national resources and are not large because it would probably be a 200 or 300 million question who would deal with European funds from the mountain-mounted area or from the island and what motivation it would be for these people to deal with it. I think we need to understand that and that the state gives as much as it can, and 100% is more than it was now. [[Thank you. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106648	Replication response, Vedligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106649	And, well, fellow Boric, you must always find this reason to say so, but he's not here. Here you are absolutely wrong, so that you listened carefully to your colleague Bernardić and listened carefully to what the SDP Club said, so the reduction of funds for local self-government does not have a balancing fund this will settle from the leftover part of the VAT to local self-government. I really don't know why the VAT is a cow and why it has to be the central state's income. So this is very clear in that proposal that the SDP made to increase the base deduction. Another thing I can understand you are from the island and you are probably satisfied with the programme and with the measures given by this in the Law on Islands, unfortunately such programs, such measures, such activities for mountainous and mountainous areas are not available, and let us add that islands have received 4 times as much as mountainous areas in this draft budget for 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106650	A representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev, came forward for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106651	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, so every item of the state budget can be spoken well, but I think that every item that indicates that there is an increase in the past period, and it refers to either investment or any incentive or education, culture education, regional development, island development or similar praise. Although it is certain that each of us who comes has an interest in a particular area would want that item to be even higher. As I come from Sibenik-Knin County, a county where the basic branch of tourism is no matter what is at the end of the year, at the end of the year, we can say that in the first 10 months, we are recording an increase of 6% more arrivals and 4% more overnights than in the first 10 months of last year, we still need to know that now is the time to talk about the new tourist season that we prepare as well as best and quality when we speak and consider the 2019 budget. Since in Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia and Zadar County last year was the largest number of fires in which air forces were engaged, on several occasions the Land Army, land military forces were required to be engaged, as the government was repeatedly called for for these speakers on the subject of fire, the unwarranted calling of the Emergency Medicine Institute, etc. I paid particular attention to these items and I can say that here is the Croatian Fire Department in 2019 will receive 16.5 million kuna, when compared not only to 2018 but in 2017 when it was slightly more than 10 million, it means that almost 60% more, and with public security, organisation and implementation of protection and rescue, preventive protection and fire extinguishing also recorded an increase of 43%. If we compare this again in 2017 with 2016 that for the organisation and implementation of protection and rescue, 148% has been increased enough to say how much this government wants and invests in both modernisation and the fire system. When I said modernization, then it should be said that here in 2020 it was already planned for vehicles only to separate 108 million kunas. The fire system of the Republic of Croatia consists of 1799 voluntary fire companies. These companies are financed exclusively from the budget of local self-government units. Unlike 89 public fire departments that part of the funds they get from the state budget and we can see them right in on these items that are before us today. It's a total of 50,000 firefighters and another 15,000 springs. What I would like to appeal to this occasion to the representatives of the ministry, as well as those of the resolution ministries that allocate funds to make the allocation of these funds fairer after all. For example. The public fire unit of the town of Vodice covering 94km square and population, the permanent population is nearly 10 thousand, not to say that in the summer months we cross a figure of 50 thousand, for its 18 employees it gets a little less than 1.9 million kuna from the state budget. I won't name which, but also public fire departments from the coast that have three times the smaller surface, twice the population gets a million kunas more. It is not fair that according to a certain fireman, some public fire departments, or rather their units of local self-government, receive 150 thousand kunas unlike the city of Vodice, which, according to the permanent employee of the public fire department, receives only 90 thousand. Furthermore, when I mentioned emergency medicine, here's what my colleague Vesligaj said that they inhabit 2.5 million kunas in their county should be said that the city of Vodice singles out half a million kunas for another team, so that we all 12 months have 24-hour duty and so on. Team 1 with a doctor that I think at least part of the units of local self-government, which are better placed, means I can't say that they can and must all, but after the last tax reform, or the second round when the local self-government units, we heard here today we get a billion and 800 million kunas safely to appeal to these city, or municipal councils that at least some of these funds provide for the safe health care and emergency assistance of their citizens and guests. My colleague Vesligaj himself said and indeed should note that the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute will receive 227% more funds and 24 million 153 000, respectively. When we compare that the execution in 2017 was only 4 million then we see that it's about, how much? 6 times the amount that it was in 2017. Again, in 2017, there was a 63% increase compared to 2016 in emergency medical transport. I have to say that I was glad to see, in the Croatian Waters budget, that in the implementation of 8 projects approved under the operational environmental protection programme. The projects carried out in two phases and will end in the programming period from 2014 to 2020 include a system of collection and treatment of waste water from the city of Vodice for which, together with the remaining ones, the EUR 862 million grants from Europe. There has been a lot of criticism today as to how much the Ministry of Regional Development, how much budget, how much funding is planned to withdraw and so on, the minister said in her brief presentation, as much as agreed, as withdrawn. But I would just like to remind on this occasion that the budget proposal for the Ministry of Regional Development is a billion and 279 million kuna, which is 25% higher than 2018. The biggest critics to finish the government in 2015 should know that the Ministry of Regional Development has had the implementation of the 2015 budget. 484 million kuna. So 484 million compared to a billion 279 million kuna. Another item that has also been said a lot about arrests, how HDZ and this government employs people, spends, etc., should be said for staff expenditures, total from the state budget. The proposal for 2019 plans to allocate a little more than 29 million, and this is indeed a 3% increase compared to 2018 and 2017 respectively, which recorded 26 billion 733 million. However, one should look at the table on expenditures that affect the level of the deficit, i.e. the surplus budget, which means that these expenditures for employees in 2019 are 24 billion to 29 billion kuna, amounts to, or funds to be withdrawn from European funds. So all these jobs do not go to the expense of the state budget and do not affect its surplus or deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106652	A representative of Sladolev asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106653	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear MPs, you spoke, in fact I agree with you that this budget is based on a branch of tourism, i.e. on... Good tourist season. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But any economist who understands the economy at all will say that it is a branch that is not safe. And the analysis shows that exactly the poorest countries in the world rely on that branch. We actually have 19% of GDP that depends on tourism. Isn't it risky... the budget and rely on the entire budget on that branch, given that the second paragraph of the budget, in fact, the most reliant one, is the withdrawal from the EU funds? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We actually have two insecure items that we're not really sure about and I think it's very risky given how high the budget is and how much it really is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106654	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106655	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Sladolev, I would not say that this is an activity dealing with poor countries, but it is certainly the most sensitive activity and we must be very, very careful there and therefore I have addressed my exposure to the preparation of the next tourist season. When you're talking about the European Funds, today the Minister's exact figures are out, only 6% we've found, now we've called a contest of over 75%. At this point, however, we already have over 80% of all European funds funded investments, which is enough to say what would have happened to the Republic of Croatia if it hadn't been for any of these funds at all, although we will all agree that we would like it to be much more agreed or withdrawn in full at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106656	Representative Djujic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106657	My colleague, you have opened a very good topic, and this is the financing of the fire department in the Republic of Croatia. So, you said how much they get from the Public Fire Department (JVP), how much they get from Voluntary Fire Department (DVD), however, and you urged the Ministry to do a little better distribution. However, this cannot be done by the Ministry because it is prescribed by law that PPPs receive in the rule of funding for salaries of public budget workers, while local self-governments must finance DVDs. And what I would ask of you, I appeal to you, that you appeal to your government because to finally pass a new Fire Department Act because the Republic of Croatia is ready for a new Fire Department Act. I saw that your replica was raised by a colleague of Sanadar who is also the president of the Croatian Fire Department (HVZ), so I expect him to put pressure within his party, this one, to pass the new law because the Republic of Croatia is ready and in this new law should make a fairer distribution and should be mentioned. only that in JVP, [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up]] Here's half a sentence, Vice President. Professionals work, and in DVDs they don't have to. [[Another time, I apologize.]] [[I'm afraid I have to rule you out. I'm supposed to be the same for everyone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106658	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106659	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Djujic, for this very reason today, and I speak and often speak on this subject because I think it is not fair that small municipalities and cities have to finance from their DVD funds, at the same time JVD large cities get from the state budget funds. However, I spoke again of another injustice, that these JVD individuals also receive 90,000 for one firefighter, and some 150,000 for one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106660	Agent Sanader has come forward with a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106661	Dear Vice President. Dear colleagues, here, we've talked a lot about the subject of fire work. I need a few corrections first, in the Republic of Croatia there are 67 Public Fire Departments (JVPs), not 85 because these are the ones left in the economy. There's been a lot of disrespect. It's been dragging around for 10 years. What an injustice it is that the city of Kaštela, which has 45,000 inhabitants, the state doesn't pay a single firefighter, and some small municipality there is paying, and that's the fight I'm saying, we've been fighting for 10 years. Unfortunately, we didn't even have the status of fireman in the Republic of Croatia, they're at the state level of two heads. One is the Croatian Fire Department (HVZ), the other is the State Protection and Rescue Authority. Here I hope that by the end of the year this House will come to the end of the year, at least we will get the first Unique Fire Department, and therefore the preconditions, if we become a competent state body, so that we can fight, here, to solve these injustices and to even up that number, but to give to all units of local self-government, and not only to those who have established JVPs because this is the first beginning of correcting injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106662	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106663	Thank you very much. Comrade Sanader, I believe that you know far more about fire, but this figure I found in the explanation of the state budget, so here, I appeal that it is then corrected there and as far as I'm concerned, it would most certainly be that the funds are distributed either by miles of square surfaces protected by certain, whether by JVD or DVD by the number of employees or by the number of inhabitants, means, in whose area is a particular society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106664	Representative Jelkovac is reporting for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106665	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you mentioned this very important and important topic of fire and of course, and there the government has found ways to increase, of course, that when there are natural disasters such as fires, and also floods and slides, then we are all in doubt how to help our fellow citizens. I would just like to point out that the government has also found in this budget, and also in the projections for 2020 and 2021, also the amount of 50 million kuna to resuscitate the glider, since I come from the area where such elemental disasters have indeed done great damage, I would like to stress that this government actually takes care of it in time, and also through the budget of the Croatian Waters, we see that by applying to the projects of the European Funds, we are really counting on how to solve these problems effectively. Do you think they're really justified complaints on the left that this budget isn't developed and not good, when we know that in time There was no such help from their governments. [[Intruder: Timed out]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106666	Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106667	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Jelkovac, you said well, you know best what it's like to flood the landscape, when your population comes into a very ugly situation, when it's expected that the government, the prime minister, will come and re-schedul all those expenses that were. All of this is precisely in this budget, and in my presentation on several occasions I compared the figures we had in the 2015 budget, as I said the Ministry of Regional Development had far less funds than now, and now they are criticising how much the funds are withdrawn, what is the budget of the Ministry and what can be done for all these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106668	Representative Alfirev reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106669	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues of Juričev-Martinchev, so you mentioned a lot in this debate, in fact, about our common city and what can be contributed through this budget. Well, here, if I may have been wrong or missed seeing somewhere, even in the budget, but maybe in your presentation, you mentioned a lot, but it seems like you didn't mention kindergarten. As far as we all know from the public, therefore, it has been promised from the Ministry of Demography about millions and 200 thousand kunas just to build or help build a new kindergarten. So I'd like you to show me exactly where this is in this budget. If it does not happen to be in this budget for 2019. I will gladly submit an amendment and hope you accept it or support it or your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106670	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106671	Thank you very much. So as far as the children's kindergarten of the city of Vodice is concerned, unfortunately it is an investment that cannot be applied to European funds, all the resources of the state budget can be reduced here to a maximum of one million kuna, which is why one such large project cannot be built. In this year, the Ministry of Demography made a decision, so in the 2018 budget, it first opened a tender, the town of Vodice applied and was granted 1.2 million kuna. We don't have such and similar items as individual ones in the budget either, as we have a common item for the development of the island, for mountain-mountan, for aided then they are awarded by the basis of the tender, meaning a million or a half two, 800 thousand, 200 thousand kuna, you won't find it in these similar budgets, but after running, the ministries can approve one such one, I would say modest means for such large... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106672	Thank you. Zeljko Jovanovic reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106673	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the discussion of the budget is like looking at a man's blood count, then you can tell from that blood count what his medical condition is like, and anyone who knows very well the items in the budget can judge the state of one state. What bothers me personally is that every criticism as constructive as it is we hear complaints and calls for something that was in the period 2011 and 2015 which cannot possibly be an excuse for the answers to the questions that we are asking in order to ensure that this budget is as high as possible because it is a budget for all Croatian citizens regardless of which party we are in. What may be most controversial in the 2019 budget is the expenditure side of the budget, which was not put under control, but the government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister of Finance Maric were clearly led by some other motives. Because I don't think it's possible for expenditures to grow by as much as 6.5% without any strategy by the ministries where these expenditures are the largest and that GDP growth projection is only 2.8%. I am therefore afraid that this way in certain ministries guarantees stagnation, lack of reforms, patching holes and uncontrollable spending of money. Although we could see when the health resort was also announced that Finance Minister Maric was unhappy with the effect of Minister Kujundzic and that the increase had conditionaled on just implementing reforms. What is particularly worrying, so if the expenditures are already rising by 6.5%, is part of the social benefits. So why does the right to temporary child restraint fall by about a billion kuna? Why the guaranteed minimum fee falls by about 80 million kuna and we know what the number of citizens living in poverty is. Also, improving the protection of victims of domestic violence remains at the same level with a slight increase in funds for associations and we know that implementation of the Istanbul Convention specifically requires a whole series of activities where this symbolic increase will not be sufficient. But what I especially want to draw attention to is health care. So today, in the opening statement, Andrej Plenkovic said on several occasions that he is asking his ministers to manage the available funds better, or he is seeking fiscal sustainability and rational use of public money. I fully agree with this and this is indeed a real requirement that the prime minister can put before his ministers, however, nothing that has happened in the past two years in the Ministry of Health does not show that the health minister is able to maintain the financial sustainability of the health system and rationally use public money in the health system. So Minister Kujundzic is a happy man because no health minister has ever had as much money as he will have and as much as he has had in the past two years. But what happened in those two years? Debts continue to rise, existing assets are being spent irrationally and we can practically say that the hospital system is absolutely financially unsustainable and that the minister is unable to dispose of rational public money. So, of course, as a doctor and as a health monitor, I support every increase in health care system resources for the simple reason that the costs of the health care system must grow. They grow because of new technologies, they grow because we generally live longer, although in Croatia it is relatively relative to the European average, so more funding is needed. And when we say rationally available by means, we're not asking for any cost cuts that will make what is our goal impossible, which is that waiting lists are shorter and that the outcomes of the treatment are more favourable. So we in Croatia are in an absurd situation although the health system has more money than ever, our waiting lists are longer, our treatment outcomes are more unfavourable compared to the outcomes of treatment in the nearest countries and in the environment in the EU, at the same time our healthcare professionals are unhappy and leaving Croatia. Therefore, as to how the Minister of Health will maintain a financially sustainable health system if, in the first 6 months of 2018 alone, the hospital sector has achieved less than 565 million kunas and commitments have been increased by more than 620 million kunas, or even 26%. My colleagues and colleagues. All right, that this has increased but that waiting lists have shortened, that the treatment outcomes are better, but therefore the cost of growth has not reached the growth obligation and our waiting lists are increasing, the outcomes of the treatment are not good and healthcare workers are leaving Croatia. This is therefore an indication that this increase in resources thanks to the increase in contributions will not ensure the financial sustainability of the health system. Also, what is certainly a problem that I have been talking about on several occasions, which is that this government has returned to the old payment of hospitals through fixed hospital limits, payment by effect has been abolished, which certainly contributes to the fact that the hospital system is not financially sustainable and that Croatia records a decline on all the scales, which monitors the availability of health services of treatment outcomes. What I can especially point out, therefore, is not clear to us such a drastic reduction in the tourism portfolio, which should certainly still be one engine that allows Croatia to get out of all these times of crisis in which we live today. Also, what surprises me is that the funds for the journals at the Ministry of Science have been reduced from 12.6 to 2 million kn. So for 10 million kn, if I have seen well, I would ask for explanations if possible, if not, that we are trying to change these funds back to the amount at which last year's domestic magazines were, because it still guarantees a scientific production in Croatia. Therefore, like the other colleagues, I will write several amendments, one concerning the psychiatric hospital Lopaca, namely the new Health Protection Act, it is envisaged that funds may be allocated from the budget in the case of an elementary accident and a disaster for health institutions, which is not the founder of the local self-government unit, so it is known that the city of Rijeka, the only local self-government unit, the only city that has its own hospital, is the psychiatric hospital of the Lopaca that was killed in the fire, which broke out and that at the time of the fire was also found the diameter of Plenkovic and Minister Kujundzic and promised financial support, which we unfortunately have not seen so far, so I hope that this amendment will be respected and that the funds will be provided in the budget to enable the full restoration of this psychiatric hospital. But even in HZZO funding, although it is a city hospital, it will find resources that will allow psychiatric patients to be treated in a quality way in this hospital, since we know to what extent the problem of psychiatric illness in Croatia is growing and that all these patients deserve adequate care. Here, I think that's what I was going to say, that now I'm not reopening the story of May 3rd, because what matters now is that when we let go of everything that was, it's important now to help 3. May and that is possible if the administration run by Percan is replaced, if 3. May is returned to the loans that were sucked out of it without collateralisation and to secure raw materials, so that workers in May 3rd can complete the constructions they started and that all those ships that were contracted continue to be built in May 3rd because it is the only way to save shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106674	Representative Hajdukovic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106675	Thank you, Vice-President Jovanovic, for mentioning a very interesting topic, which is the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, i.e. the fact that the funds for associations are only slightly increased and the associations should be the basis for its implementation. A few months ago. I asked the government a question, now let's get back to answering the question of the MPs. What they intend and how to do to ensure the implementation of conventions supported by HDZ even though not perhaps the entire HDZ Club. Of course I didn't get the answer. And as for the health care system you've been on the most, unfortunately lately, I've witnessed from the very first hand all the shortcomings in our health system. And it's disastrous when you're lying in a hospital room, where your window glass is taped to you. This system, only by superhuman efforts and enthusiasm, is maintained by people who work in it, who, as you said, are sub-capacitated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106676	Reply to the replica, MP Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106677	Thank you very much, colleague Hajdukovic, worries that, exactly because, not only is this item minimally increased and we have a commitment to the Istanbul Connection, but in certain items where prevention of violence, prevention of domestic violence, prevention of kindergarten violence also did not result in an increase in the items. And let us take an example of sports, which we all admire, sharing medals, jumping to athletes and for campaigning on their account, and the item of public need in sport has been reduced by 2 million kn. At the same time, there has been no increase in funding for professional qualifications of top athletes that would allow those athletes to continue active training in the sports system after their careers have stopped. So, we talk a lot, a lot of demagogy, and actually these things show that you're not serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106678	For individual participation in the debate, MP Ivan Lovrinovic reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106679	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear citizens, we are discussing a proposal for a state budget for 2019. I would like to start by saying that the proposal for this budget is unrealistic, it is wasteful, socially insufficiently sensitive, and for these reasons, the party, let's change Croatia, will not support it. Who actually fills this proposed budget? It is mostly filled by workers, pensioners through VAT, because they are the biggest consumers of all that is sold, and through VAT the state budget is revenue of around €47.5 billion. In this context, the most is taken by workers and pensioners and the least are just given out of the budget. Instead of proposing a budget in which expenditures will remain at the level of last year, the government has increased those expenditures from 136 to 140 billion kn. So it was predetermined that our public debt would be increased by 4 billion kn, i.e. it was predetermined to spend more than is earned, i.e. more than is collected at the income station. In this sense, we economists and the economic profession know that Croatia's state budget is too high compared to GDP, and in that case it is like a big vacuum cleaner. So when you have a big budget in a small country, that means you have a big vacuum cleaner that brings out more and more money from citizens, or too much money. Why budget revenues for 2019 are unrealistic, and because VAT revenues are expected to grow above all and transfers from the EU, EU funds, GDP growth is expected to increase more than 2.5%, and citizens' spending growth and consumption during the season. But other winds from the West blew, primarily from the United States, and the wind from trade protectionism that triggered the United States has become more and more a real trade war, as well as towards the EU. In this respect, we can certainly expect next year that the EU's gross domestic products will be reduced, in particular exports will be reduced, especially towards the United States, and as soon as exports to EU countries are reduced, this means that Croatia's exports to EU countries will also be reduced. When Croatia's exports to EU countries are reduced, this means that our VAT will practically be reduced, and therefore it will be in crisis and the budget that you have proposed. For these reasons, it is expected that you will have to correct it in a relatively short period because of the over-optimisms you have written in this proposal. Each year, 17 billion kunas of missing pension funds are funded, 10 billion kunas for interest paid to banks, 2 to 3 billion kunas for health care, 500 million kuna for Croatian highways, the list is long enough to read more, I don't have time. We cannot have an acceptable budget and less expenditure until extra budget users are structured they are HAC, Croatian highways, Croatian roads, Croatian railways, HZMO, health insurance, Croatian water, but of these restructurings as we can see there are no letters. You know respected colleagues and colleagues, that I change Croatia in front of the Party, it is a serious small party, a smaller party that is constantly growing and we are really a real programme opposition. Here's an example, because we don't like to talk to you by heart, here's an example of HAC Croatian highways, it's an extra budget fund, here's how you actually financially restructure Croatian highways. There's no minister here you see he's gone he doesn't care about this, what we're saying, so he can't answer what I'm about to say, so I'm asking him to be written. We know that the amount of the debts of the Croatian highways is about 35 billion kuna, the restructuring process has been joined and its financial statements have already been restructured about 60% of the debts I have said are around 35 billion, and this is how the Ministry of Transport and this government boasts. However, dear citizens of our highways have already been paid once only to the interest paid so far, so we already paid off once through interest, and the main one has not been reduced. This government declares that interest payments are a huge success every year, and the principal remains for the next generation. If you still want that kind of government, you sure as hell don't want it. Since there was a restructuring programme, which the consultant house did, how paid they were to ask the president of the assembly to leave urgently, open the agenda point and debate in the Croatian Parliament to see it. Now look how they did it, they noticed, and here's the finance minister here, for 2019 you see how it was about. In 2017, the HAC commitments were for principals and interests in 2017. 5.2 billion kuna, in 2018, already fell to 1.5 billion, and now listen to this in 2019, are intended only to about 290 million kuna, and in 2020. 330 million kuna, miracle one, miracle men, HAC healed. However, in which the catch is here, listen to this, they've re-financed old debts, so they've refinanced even cheaper, lower interest, that's true, but by 2030, with only 5% of new loans being paid in the next 2-3 years, and 95% is due to the remaining 18 half-year payments. Just next year, this government, it is considering staying in power and having excellent indicators of a reduced debt to the public and in fact nothing has changed, will make a massive profit to the banks and therefore this is a typical example of pi ar restructuring in Croatia. Don't do this to us, don't cheat on us, and don't deceive us just when we thought it was true that you restructured HAC properly and that you relieved us, you actually let us down, and you just went through our debts from HAC until 2030. What else do you say about the proposal for this, this budget? Each, as far as HAC is concerned, every citizen knows that in every liter of liquefied fuel in his car he pays 20 lips just to resuscitate this failed company. Is there an example of how others do it, so here you see in Slovenia we have a situation where they have twice a mile of highways, they have twice as many employees and 50% earn more revenue from highways, so in this sense we see that the public sector is suffering from severe diseases and that it needs to be restructured as soon as possible. However, the process of restructuring is shown not only not to be performed and implemented but not to be desired. Because when you're conducting restructuring then you have to want to not rip those clientelistic connections, the corrupt relationships on which you live now. You will see the HDZ crack when the government falls, when it loses power, it will fall apart faster than the SDP because it now connects them with that bond that is primarily about clientelism. And finally, let me say, the party to change Croatia has proposed one amendment. Why one? Well, because we suggest that in the interest-bank expenditure item, it's realistic, by 5 billion kuna, from 10 to 5, it's feasible, the minister knows it, everyone knows it, and that out of those 5 billion kunas everyone who has asked for it here is less or more, from public services, teachers, teachers, teachers, nurses, and so on, and so on. So, the Party change Croatia wants state moves, strategic moves, to disburse, that, therefore, the most paid by those who have, not to put the bankers and the fund managers in their full pockets, and to take from the poor, the workers, the pensioners. Of these 5 billion kunas that we will save when we come with the help of the citizens to power, it will be such a budget, 2 billion will go to raise pensions, 1 billion and 700 to raise salaries to public services, therefore, teachers, teachers and others, and therefore it will be one different budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106680	Thank you. Time's up. The replica was reported by Commissioner Putica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106681	Thank you, Vice President. Professor Lovrinovic, instead of his vain pre-election programme, you should still tell citizens the truth as a professor of economics. So I will tell dear citizens that in this budget we can read that they will get 1.2 billion kuna more for pensions, 900 million kuna more for public sector wages, another 2% which is another 150 million, plus a standard increase of 0.5% for past work, and Christmases and regressions are also planned, which is all around 500 million kuna. I would understand that I, as an economic financial layman here, can speak such untruths but it is not expected of you as a professor of economics, but that you read the budget correctly and tell our citizens the truth about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106682	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106683	Dear colleague Putica, I'm not going to come at you as much as you do with me, but I'm going to offer you an argument. From 2008 to 2017, you reduced all public service employees by 15%. Now you give them 5% back, so you take 15% off. Is this your policy, your policy, so you haven't even compensated them for what you took, let alone give them more. Therefore, in all cases you are using the PR. That sounds good, but our people can't live on it, she can't live on it, she can't live on it, she can't teach, she can't teach, she can't do social care, people can't live badly. You don't see the right picture of the world. Why? You're in one coalition, you're locked up in your world, people are still moving out, and that's why we need to change this country to come new people, capable, honest, and take them in a new direction in a better way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106684	Thank you. Representative Lukačić responded for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106685	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrinović, you said that this budget is not social, so there is no social character, and I have not heard in any sentence that you have mentioned at least one social category of our citizens, and no social compensation in this budget. At the end of your presentation, you said how much you would give to the pensioners, how much you would give to the professors, but you didn't say how much you would give, for example, to people with disabilities, people who don't work and so on. So don't say that the budget is unsocial. In your debate later, if you listen, I'll tell you how much he increased compared to social categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106686	Replicate response, MP Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106687	Dear colleagues, MPs. I said, I didn't say he was unsocial but undersocially, look in the video, listen to the video. However, let me tell you the truth, the previous government, the previous government and this government are turning a growing part of Croatian society into a social category. If the goal of some government is to give social groups crumbs, not that they can all live well from their work and social assistance, then there is simply no perspective. Besides, we see what practice it is, why do people run from this country? Well, they're not leaving because they're fine. The first reason is that I can't find a job, the second is if they find it, they work for a certain time, they're paid, and the third is due to justice, the law isn't the same for everyone. So it's clear here that this system has to be decommissioned politically and that Parliament becomes a key place, and that the government is a servant.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106688	Thank you. Thank you. Time's up. Representative Djakic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106689	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Lovrinović about the public debt and its projections and that it is not shrinking, so I would show you the curve that defuses it. In 2015, the public debt amounted to 83.7% of GDP, the 2021 projections are 65.6%, and for 2019, 71.6%, this curve clearly says, which shows a significant decline in public debt in the gross domestic product, and this is reflected by the increase in consumption that allowed this government in view of the 3 phases of fiscal decentralisation and help entrepreneurs, the possibility of investing local self-government units, the growth of all local self-government units, and our Countys, has been seen to increase all budgets and so on. Of course, with more consumption, a larger budget does what we want, with credit reforms that are lower in interest, this kind of projection is clearly being made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106690	Thank you. Time's up, thanks. Replicate response by Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106691	Dear fellow Djakic, I didn't expect you to be in front of HDZ, reading me a lesson from finance, public finances, but I will answer you. You need to distinguish the concept absolutely and relatively, so look at how much public debt is absolutely compared to GDP. And not only that, but I drew the minister's attention a year ago, and that's true now, that's what the state's audit said, your public debt data is not correct, gentlemen. Let's go on TV, on TV to the public, to show you that your data is not accurate. You are falsely informing the European Commission and Eurostat, you did not include at least 12 billion kuna companies owned by local administrations and self-government in public debt, which is mandatory. Therefore, all this says, will come to an end to your Pear Authority, you will also find yourself in it, but what is important, should escort you simply because the Republic of Croatia can no longer live with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106692	A representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106693	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Here's a colleague and colleagues, about 10 hours ago the prime minister said that this, a budget that is socially sensitive, was turned to development and the Service of Demographic Policy, to be quoted. First of all, I would stick to this social aspect of the budget, and I would agree with my colleague Lovrinovic if he were under-socially sensitive. What worries is that the right to temporary child restraint, therefore, when the payer does not pay by abstention and when the state jumps in, therefore, coloquially speaking, has fallen by about a million kuna. I hope that's not because there are fewer children in the Republic of Croatia, but I hope that's because more fathers are responsible, but somehow I doubt it. The guaranteed minimum fee fell by around 80 million kuna, while over a million citizens and citizens live in poverty or at risk of poverty and after receiving social benefits. The promotion of the protection of victims of domestic violence remained at the same level as the 2018 execution, so about 2 million and 150,000,00 kn, I am talking about the entire Republic, and the implementation of the Istanbul Convention is going on. As previously said, funds for NGOs are only slightly raised from 50 million to 57 million, so I would even call it a statistical error or a alignment with inflation, and we know that they should implement the Istanbul Convention, and that NGOs should be one of the main supporters of this implementation, then we can say that all these increases are minimal or that this increase is minimal, insignificant, cosmetic, etc., so much on the social budget. In the service of demographic policy, therefore, I have repeated, and I will repeat again, if the objective of demographic policy is still, and further depopulation of the eastern Republic, then it is a great, great success. A Pear project called the Slavonia Project failed. Fellow colleagues and colleagues are a list of projects implemented in the eastern Republic of Croatia. You've taken everything the Ministry has done, what they've done before, everything local development agencies do, everything certain cities, municipalities do, and you've just listed it and said "Oops," we've got the Slavonia Project, you see, they're blooming roses, it's great, and in reality nothing happened, absolutely nothing. The infrastructure itself, although investment in it is of course highly desirable, will not retain people either in Slavonia, nor in the Republic of Croatia. And speaking of infrastructure, here's the information you can read on the website of Osijek-Baranja County in the material that the County Road Administrations (ZUC) delivered to the County Assembly. In order to maintain the Road Fund or to reconstruct the Road Fund, ZUC does not have enough money, and only 2% of the road fund can be fully reconstructed annually, which would mean that a particular stock, a particular road, can be reconstructed only after 50 years. Now, you tell me if that road will last 50 years or if the rulings have already included enough people leaving, so the road will no longer be useful enough. When we talk about rail infrastructure, and that's where the words were, so I figure out that fellow Shucker mentioned that a large part of the railway infrastructure was destroyed in war casualties, which is true, one part is. But you have a sub-level railroad, so it's going through a sub-level that's the breadth of that area, which is literally falling apart. So, the engineer can say that the railroad is dancing in front of them, literally because the thresholds have rotted and seen the tracks move. As long as that's how it's going to be because on certain shares you're limited to the speed of movement at only 30 km/h. As long as that's how it's gonna be, I don't know. Probably until someone gets hurt, and we're talking about infrastructure investments. Employment says the prime minister is growing, again to refer, for example, to the Osijek-Baranja County. The only employer who has lost his job is Osijek-Baranja County. Osijek-Baranja County has 15 administrative departments, mostly in the Republic of Croatia. She's hiring, so now she's only hired one 20 people in the last cycle, and new tenders have already been called, etc. etc. And why and who? And we're always talking about how counties are actually paralyzed, how they serve as a service, I'd call them shifters, you know those who are formerly in railways, today everything is automated, but those who pulled the handle to turn the train on one track or on another. That's what the county does, they pull the turn, they pull that handle and they direct the money that the state directs to school anyway, to health care, and so on, institutions that are on their territory. So, the only thing that can still surprise me is that my county will set up an office for... It's a waste of time, as Alan Ford says. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I would also like to warn of some concrete budget failures that I have tried to fix to the Amendments not to repeat myself again, which I think deserve very much our attention. First of all, the prevention of violence in school. So we're always talking about the increase in peer violence, violence, sorry, we're talking about the tragedy of it, that we should prevent it, that we should all work to reduce it, and you know how many countries want to single out for it this year? 1.589.000,00 kn. So that's a symbolic amount, really a symbolic amount of encouraging work with gifted students and students, so we all talk again and again about how gifts should work, give them enough space, etc. You know how many states he wants to single out? 2.5 million kuna, 2.5 million kuna. Extracurricular activities in primary schools. You know how many states they're going to invest in that? A million kunas. If you take into account that you have about 2 000 and 100 primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, that means that each school for extracurricular activities will receive 478 kuna and 5 limes. So you tell me what to do with these extracurricular activities. That is, if we share both the prevention of violence and the promotion of work with gifted students, we will come up with very similar amounts or smaller because they relate both to primary and secondary schools. When we talk about the hero city, about the city of Vukovar, we only remember him at the 11th month. Last year I warned that the city abolished the co-financing of inter-urban transportation to students from Vukovar who most often do not study at the University of Vukovar, study in Osijek and many of them cannot afford a monthly ticket, i.e. they must decide on some other or study destinations or ways of study. The city of Vukovar that, that is, the mayor is at that time just about the lack of money and the lack of money from the state budget and I want to help him, and I hope all of you are colleagues, and I asked for 2 million kuna for that purpose. We return to the prevention of violence by sports in schools, so there is the same amount more than symbolic. If every school gets 500 kuna for that, it'll be fine. What I'm suggesting is that this amount increase. Youth policy, so we keep saying young people are our future, on young people the world remains, we need to keep young people in Croatia and we want... sets aside for youth policies in the Republic of Croatia next year? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 4, not 4, no, 4 million kuna. It's just as symbolic. If we're going to go by regions, four regions each million kuna. If we have four regions and we have more. If we have 21 counties here's how much is it. Technical culture in primary and secondary education. Look, we keep talking about the STEM Revolution, about not enough students enrolling in natural and technical sciences and technical culture in primary school you have 15 hours a year, 15 hours of colleagues and colleagues through 4 years of classes in question. Now you count on what kind of fund it is. If we do not have a technical culture as an extracurricular activity and in every other respect then how can we expect our students to be ready to enroll in such and similar knowledge? And finally, investment in the Croatian qualification framework, although I must commend the government and this budget to have some shifts, I still think it is insufficient. We are too late, too little money is invested for this, the Croatian qualification framework is already late, it is an obstacle for lifelong education to really live in the same way that it should, but there is the most movement, although I have given the amendment here, so we also have a link to the European qualification framework, we have a further promotion of ours, but I am still afraid that all of this is insufficient. So here's how much, so I wanted to warn you about some of the items in the budget that I'm experiencing as problematic and that's why I won't support the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106694	Representative Branko Juričev Martinchev answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106695	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Hajdukovic, you said that the project of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem that nothing, that nothing was done, but I want our citizens to know, means 2.5 billion euros are secured, which means 18.75 billion kuna from European funds. So far, 45% has been agreed, which means 8.4 billion kuna. From the railway, water supply, draining, port infrastructure, from Osijek to Vukovar, Vinkovac, only for the project "Learn" secured 400 million kuna. We have a façade arrangement, the biggest project is a project of electrification of the Vinkovci-Vukovar railway line, for which 453 million kuna was agreed. And so on. I don't think it's anything after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106696	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106697	Thank you very much. Government colleagues cannot provide European money, it can create preconditions for them to be negotiated and realised. Do I have to remind you of what the Commissioner in the White monastery said? She said give us an action plan, why he's gone, where he is, without him you can't withdraw the money. When we asked the minister what was wrong with it, we don't know, it's not there. But the important thing is that this is how much money flows, I guess Europe is just waiting for all that money to flow into Slavonia and Baranja. Nothing the government gave Slavonia and Baranja but what was going on. Except there's no capacity that can pull that back unfortunately. And whose fault is that again?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106698	Representative Skoric asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106699	Thank you very much. So here is counterpart Hajdukovic's dissatisfaction with the financing of the county road administration and the amount intended for road maintenance. I agree with that, I accept that, but here's a fact that since 2003, the annual fee for the use of roads has not been increased, so for 15 years. Meanwhile, we had an inflation rate of 34%. On the other hand, not that it has not been increased, but during your authority and Minister Hajdas Doncic, therefore it has been reduced by both 240 million kuna and that amount from excise duties has not yet been returned. The minister also said in his introduction today, and we are in negotiations with the ministries to return these funds and to provide an additional 400 million kuna that will allow for the sustainable functioning and operation of the county road administrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106700	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106701	Thank you very much. My colleague, I don't know if it's in line with your policy of abolishing parafiscal duties or good. Otherwise, I wouldn't object to the increase in remuneration if citizens' income followed inflation trends. Unfortunately, most citizens do not follow, unfortunately, this amount is significant and therefore I oppose its increase. I'd be the happiest if we all had it in common. On the other hand, Homeland isn't a firm and we can't look at it like that. So, the roads I think are a basic prerequisite for, especially in rural areas that are already demographically damaged to keep some people, to have basic infrastructure to work, we have to keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106702	Representative Sokol has requested a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106703	Thank you very much, so colleague Hajdukovic you mentioned how, that is, you implied that this increase in the number of employees is primarily a product, the result of employment in the public sector. I will only say some figures, so at the end of 2016 the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia was a million and 579 thousand and at the end of 2017 a million and 639 thousand. So we're talking 60 grand more employees. On the other hand, if we look at the growth of the number of public sector employees, we'll see that he's not even 10% of this number I just said. So please again, let's talk facts, let's do numbers, let's not talk about it, let's not spit nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106704	Thank you. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106705	Thank you. Here, fellow Sokol, I would ask you to wash your ears because I wasn't talking about the Republic of Croatia, I was talking about Osijek-Baranja County, so please behave accordingly and do not imply to me that I was saying something that I didn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106706	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106707	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Hajdukovic, you were talking about how in the county, Project Slavonia is actually not doing anything. Here is from the 7th month when it was a council session, a project contract was just signed for the Centre for Waste Management of Osijek-Baranja County, which is about 15 million kuna and the project that will be worth and which is now worth over 300 million kuna. I think that means a lot to the development of that neighborhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106708	Thank you. The answer of colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106709	Thank you very much. My colleague Peric, I have no doubt that this is an important project and for the infrastructure not only of our county but also of the wider region. But I want to ask you another question. Tell me, how many people are going to stay in Croatia because of him? That's what I'm asking you, how many young families will decide to stay in Osijek-Baranja County, Osijek, Beli Manastir, Maji Međa, Podravska Moslavina, Villa and not to list all the places that have already devastated the white plague. I'm scared of nobody.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106710	Thank you for your response, colleague Hajdukovic. Next debate, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, there's a lot being said on the other side of the assembly today, and there's all kinds of expressions being used, and I haven't been doing any damage to the Rules of Procedure when some of them were insulting something, and they were throwing it at me, and I don't think it's necessary, but we've really heard some things that aren't appropriate, but I'm saying I don't think that's necessary, and I think we can all hold out a little bit more debate. However, what bothers me in the whole story was that there were very few arguments, very many pauses, very many attacks without cover, very many general claims and even very often contradictory. So, what I would point out on that occasion is that the ones most rebelling in this budget are the ones who managed to raise an absolute debt in their 4 years, meaning a public debt of an absolute amount of 74 billion kuna. And all this time having practically, almost until the end of having a recession, and that is, during the period when all of our key exchange markets, the EU markets were growing when they were no longer in the economic crisis. It is indeed a result that neither Hugo Chavez, Maduro, nor the Venezuelan team would be ashamed of themselves. All right. That's all they care about. The fact is that this budget shows positive trends, a lot of it is said that it manages to reduce the level, i.e. the share of public debt in GDP, while also manage to finance many projects and raise all budget items that are crucial to the Republic of Croatia. I'd concentrate more on science and education as one of the few here. So today there's not much to talk about except for certain schools in certain units of local self-government, but it thinks it should highlight this wider picture that remains neglected. So the budget of the Ministry of Science and Education is raised this year, that is, in 2019 compared to 2018 by more than one billion kuna. So it's a very big step and what's more important than the increase itself is what this increase goes to except for these things that are necessarily related to the increase in wages, which during the SDP's rule just died the most in the education system this rest of it goes to reform, to educational reform both in primary and secondary education and in the system of science and higher education means 310 million kuna. So that's exactly the part that's supposed to be the step we've heard a lot of about since the opposition. As for the individual items themselves, let's just look at science. So from those who, all the time, are going to tell us what a huge eviction is, how this government is to blame, etc., I'm just going to give you one piece of information. This appropriation is intended to cover The Ministry of Science and Education for PhDs and post-doctorands means the best and most prospective Croatian young people, young scientists were reserved 18.6 million kunas. While the 2019 budget provides for this purpose, €49.5 million means almost triple the amount. And I think that's exactly what the young people in the first place are showing, which is the goal of perspective, which is aimed at keeping the highest-quality personnel in Croatia, and who are actually just flossules behind which nothing stands. I would further highlight the Croatian Foundation for Science, educational projects, means the system that is financing the very best quality in Croatian science raised from 2015 from 79 million kuna to 2019. 96.5 million kuna. And if we look at the total growth of the budget, we'll see that these key items have grown more than the total state budget has grown because that's what's important to emphasize. So it's not just that the growth of the entire budget and GDP is being monitored, it's doing an additional step, it's making further progress. ... EU funds, a lot of it, quite often. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would also mention here is the field of science. In fact, in the last two years, we have had, as far as the European Funds are concerned, the largest investment step in Croatian science in this century. I'd just point out the 300 investment, so a signed contract for 373 million kuna for scientific centres of excellence and 992 million kuna for scientific infrastructure. And these are just all the funds that will go to the University of Zagreb, both Split and Osijek, which has been talked about here and that will allow our science to overcome the entire period of not investing from a number of years, and most unfortunately, during the time of SDP's rule. So this is exactly the part where we have to make up for that backlog we had. Of course, there are also some things that may not be ideal, let's say, I would point out the reduction in 2019, i.e. in 2018, that contractual financing of scientific activities from 68 to 11 million kuna. So that's the part that's going to go through software contracts, or that's supposed to go through software contracts related to the university. However, the question is whether these funds will be spent in an adequate way and whether they will actually, if they are put in one large pool, actually make it impossible to centre and channel these funds. They're similar with scientific magazines. So Croatian domestic scientific journals and books that were of great importance for Croatian science and for the Croatian higher education system were, unfortunately, at the time of the SDP and Minister Jovanovic, placed on the margin. This lack of investment that has led to major problems, precisely in our Academic Community, we are with the budgets after 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, which managed to improve and hopefully continue in the same direction, that will not happen in this sense. The fact is that at the time of Minister Jovanovic and his then deputy, in fact, was called, in fact, to be launched a kind of crusade against social humanistic sciences that led to budget cuts in many segments at the universities exactly in that part, which led to the adoption of regulations that repeatedly fell before the Constitutional Court, if I am not wrong even seven times and I hope that this practice is behind us. So when we sum up everything, I would like to conclude that this budget is really positive, is a further step forward, or a continuation of those positive changes that have been happening so far, in particular, I would like to highlight targeted investments in science and education, precisely those key segments that are most important, which are scientific excellence, these are young PhDs, post doctoral PhDs, these are scientific projects of infrastructure, and that is why I support this budget, with certain, I say, perhaps the shortcomings that are present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106712	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. Replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106713	Thank you very much. Comrade Sokol, you've said a few inaccuracies here, but the one that's got eyes is that the problem was in our government in 2011 that, here, didn't give enough for education, and now your government, or the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, is correcting it. As if you'd slept through the period, maybe in 2011 you were a Ph.D. at the Catholic University of Leven, Belgium, so you don't know what kind of situation the Republic of Croatia was in, and what kind of finance your colleague Shuker left in front of you. That the deficit was over 20 billion kuna, so how do you give it? But now that the trend has turned, it's possible, and this underpriced, what you've done to teachers and teachers, I support the renaissance strike because the first year you came to power, you immediately raised 10%, and now people are not able to at least raise their wages that much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106714	Thank you, colleague Maras. Come in, mate Falcon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106715	Thank you very much. My colleague Maras, when I was in Belgium, followed what was happening in the Republic of Croatia, but you, while you were not in the Assembly, obviously did not follow the debate, and therefore you did not know exactly what the situation was in 2011. So, the deficit was so high because 10 billion kuna was rewritten to all those Shipbuilding guarantees, for the restructuring of Shipbuilding, which could have been resolved in another way, and what was the obligation to join the EU. So I would point out that the real deficit was 10 billion kunas smaller than you said. I would point out that in 2011, it was economic, so stagnation, so the decline was only 0.2% and that it was a situation that was inherited by the economic crisis in which Europe and the whole world drowned in 2008. While you, after 4 years of growth across Europe, have managed to have a recession of 3.5 years and 74 billion kuna of a new public debt, so please, in fact, we are talking about facts, not this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106716	I would like to thank my colleague Sokol for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Damir Felak, is not present. Dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106717	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am so glad that, here, I immediately got the opportunity to continue this debate, to point out to my young colleague Sokok some of his delusions that in the future, it might be useful for him in some debate, because he's going well, I see that these discussions are content, but it might help him with some of the facts that I'm going to say, to make it even better in the future, and not to tell people here things that haven't happened. Too bad he's leaving, but he can look at the tape, uh, later, so it'll help him anyway. So, fellow Sokol was saying that, here, the government has now very much sprayed on educational workers, and the government of Zoran Milanovic has not done so. And it would be good if my colleague Sokol knew that in 2015, so when the Government of Zoran Milanovic was on departure, the budget and income were 109 billion kuna, and listen well now, here are the others who are in the hall, the proposal for the 2019 budget is a year of business of 135 billion kuna, which, simply by subtracting 135 out of 109, remains 26 billion kuna more incomes that the government of Andrej Plenkovic currently has and with whom it can correct many of the injustices that have been done, and especially to those who earn below average and who are doing the most responsible jobs in this country. These are certainly our teachers and teachers and those who deal with our children, and it is amazing that the government in which Minister Maric was sitting for the first year when she came into the position of immediately privileged pensions raised 10%, then there was no problem with the lack of money, 10% of the pensions could have been raised. And you know why? Because HDZ gentlemen are counting on them to be their voters. They want to give 10% to those who have a pension of 7, 8, 9,000 kuna to vote in the election for them. And it's very simple to figure out how HDZ behaves in a position where it can make a fairer distribution of state finances and state budgets. As far as we are successful, we have heard here today the presentation of the prime minister who lives in another country, as if people 100 thousand people leaving Croatia do not know that in Croatia, and perhaps here is a proposal for him and the Government of the Republic of Croatia that this speech that he had here today in the Croatian Parliament is recorded, multipled and shared with companies such as Chazmatrans and similar. who drive our citizens, unfortunately, to Germany, may let them hear that speech, perhaps the people of Bregan change their minds. When they hear that it is good in Croatia, how is Plenkovic, counterpart Maric and everyone else working in the interest of our citizens may decide, they may decide not to go outside the Republic of Croatia, perhaps decide to stay in the Republic of Croatia. The success is measured also by the dual business scale, we have fallen in the last 2 years for 18 places, the success is measured and GDP growth is the last in the EU for GDP growth, and on this side I wonder how it is possible then for Prime Minister Plenkovic here in the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian public to explain that he is actually doing an excellent job when no one else but him sees it. There's another mantra they use very often in HDZ, they say we brought back 3 billion kuna to the citizens with tax reform. When you return something, then tax revenues are expected to be lower if it comes back, that's the logic of things, so when you pay back something, then tax revenues are smaller. And the tax revenues on goods and services in the last 2 years have increased € 4.5 billion, of which € 4.5 billion has been paid by our citizens, too, a pity that Minister Maric and Prime Minister Plenkovic did not keep their first promise to cut the VAT rate by 1%, which we are unlikely to see by the end of the term. So this government doesn't give anything, this government doesn't forgive, this government takes, this government doesn't correct injustice, this government gives only to its own, and it shows itself to the government of the Republic of Croatia. Implementing 2017 266 million kuna draft budget for 2019 424 million kuna, or nearly 160 million kuna more for the government of the Republic of Croatia. You may say it may not have anything to do with Prime Minister Plenkovic, but then you look at the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and you see that he had an execution of 8 million and 800 in 2017, and 12 million kuna is planned in 2019. So over 33% added up in two years more for Prime Minister Plenkovic than it was in 2017. And then you tell Minister Maric to Croatian citizens, teachers, teachers that there are no salaries for them but for salaries in Prime Minister Plenkovic's office he has 2017. 6 million and 700 for wages, these are these colleagues who come with Prime Minister Plenkovic every day, when he is here and 2019. Nine million kuna or increase again from over 30%. And then the question arises, is this the underestimating offer of Minister Pavic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepted by some trade unions, but those who carried out a referendum among their membership such as the Renaissance Union did not accept because 84% of their members and members refused the offer and this 2% of the 9 months because people see priorities in Croatia being misrepresented. That when it comes to giving people and the population voting for HDZ that it is not a problem to give 10% in the first year, when it is up to the public staff of teachers, teachers to give deserved pay increases, then it cannot be done. It is a shame that our teachers and teachers especially in the City of Zagreb are lagging behind average salaries even when they have almost 40 years of employment. That's something this government doesn't care about, and I'm going to say 2015 one more time. 21 billion kuna, excuse me 26 billion kuna less revenue in the RS budget three years ago. In the last 3 years, if some injustices and indifferences could not be corrected, you could only guarantee as those of a group of privileged pensioners that you would vote for HDZ. There's always money for them. For them, it is not a problem to find money and it will be found if you need another 10%, it is not a problem, just look at which ministries are growing and what are the priorities of HDZ and then tell me that it is just and that people in medicine, that people in the public services that are blood-produced, social workers, teachers, nurses and technicians do not deserve an increase of greater, or more than 3% at the annual level. You will quickly conclude that all that Prime Minister Plenkovic said is a lie that we are not successful, because if you are the last at the rate of growth in GDP in the EU, how are you successful, what is the measure of success? That you're the last? What's the measure of success, going back to doing business? What's the measure of success? Is it a measure of success in buying secondhand planes and spending more than 3 billion kn in the coming years instead of investing in what we really need in this country? Priorities are totally guilty and I am convinced that all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia see it. The only one who doesn't see it, unfortunately, is Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has the ability and power to influence these injustices and I'm sorry that this is not done. Investment in our schools, lying in our hospitals, something my colleague Peja Grbin said about how little he invests in medical infrastructure. It does not invest, waiting lists are getting longer and longer, service quality is getting lower and lower and unfortunately we see that we do not use this growth at all in a quality way, because for this budget the good words have neither unions nor employers, and what is most important, they do not have citizens of the Republic. Because if they did, they wouldn't have 100 grand every year coming out and going out of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106718	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for this debate. We have a replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106719	Thank you, well-respected representative Maras, so you're wondering where the HDZ's 5% that they keep mentioning. So did you forget that in 2015, Karamarko prescribed a 5 plus program from Mile Vasic from Prnarov? Well, he did it from Mile Vassic or whatever his name is, he took that program from him, and that's why he's always 5 plus him by heart. Normally, if Minister Maric hadn't written it, because if he had written it he would never have run into it like that, but he doesn't worry about it, the party's infrastructure, which, therefore, steals the programme from Prnjavor, then says it's an info institute from Germany and these are their promises. ... Probably and crediblely, who knows where they are, maybe in Zepč or, say, Kumanovo, they've rewritten it somewhere and now it's normal not to make it real. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one thing to say about burning, and the other thing to say is when the budget and the rebalancing come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106720	Thank you, Comrade Bunjac, for your response, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106721	My colleague Bunjac, I am convinced that neither in Prnjavor nor in Žepec nor in Kumanov would be deceived in this way by Croatian voters. The first promise, here's my colleague Boris, I remember him at some HDZ gatherings that everyone there was looking forward to when there was a story about 1% of the smaller VAT, right away, says, when we get there, that moment, we'll immediately cut it down, even he believed it, and I saw a truly cheerful man at those gatherings, but probably he didn't know that Prime Minister Plenkovic Maric wouldn't keep that promise. He's probably also disappointed about it. I understand him, and all our fellow citizens are disappointed. Because people simply expected as well as Mr. Boric of HDZ that Plenkovic and Maric would reduce 1% of VAT as soon as they arrived, but both citizens and colleagues were deceived. And that's what needs to be said here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106722	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106723	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear Ministers, members of the government, who are there with at least their papers Today we are witnessing who knows which episode, flimsy and raw haughtiness of government members whose character represents exposure, better said the turnout of Deputy Prime Minister Tolusic, a man who is furiously spending on a team that has six official drivers, at least one of whom is connected to the intelligence underworld and currently in prison. Who runs his ministries in cooperation, also with his godfathers and friends and who comes here and smarts us MPs says, look, we've cleared up SDP's mess. We made a deal with the unions. And just in 2009, the HDZ government took all the rights away from state and public officials, all the Christmases and regresses and severances and jubilee and wages down by 6%, and now that 10 years later, they return it, they say we gave it. It took you ten years to get back what you took. They forget that in 2009 they had a record recession of more than 8%. That they had a budget deficit of 25 million kn. Minister Maric knows very well that in 2009, the revision showed that Agrokor is in inconclusive problems. And then what do we have for the aftermath? As a consequence, Mr. Boss took 700 million kn from Agrokor and took with him, that the Borg took another 700 million kn, and then the government said, we have 150 million, for all state officials in the Republic. A billion and 400 evaporates right under their noses, and they're going at 150 million. So why didn't you give those billions of 400 to teachers and nurses? In 2011, the HDZ government passed the Executive Law, which produced more than 10 million executions, over 300 thousand Croatian citizens threw it on their knees, and did change it, did you lift it? You're not. Why don't you do it? Because it's the SDP government's fault too? Yes, gentlemen of the HDZ obviously have amnesia and a very short-term memory. Yes, I agree, you've been cleaning up SDP's garbage, but first of all, you've cleaned up your own garbage and you haven't cleaned it yet because you couldn't clean it up even if I didn't know what kind of water you were landing in this House and Government. What else did we have to listen to in this House today? We had a chance to listen to satellites so one immoral and incompetent government praise the budget of the guy I got something. My end has won something. My end got something, my minority got something, my party got something, my association got something, my waist got something. Instead of referring to solutions that are good for all citizens, not to go after partial interests, to bring a budget that will bring good to all citizens, whether he is from Istria, whether he is from Međimurje, from Baranja, from Dubrovnik, whatever party he is from, who is the best man, who is whose brother, son-in-law or not, who is which nation or religion. What's the budget for? Now I'm supposed to be looking for some amendment for the Chakovec. Or I'm a historian right now for the history of 10 million kunas and as soon as I get my vote for the budget. Is that the meaning of the National Parliament? The scratching, the wire money? And they're proud when they get something for it. And they say here's what I did to the rinks in my community, the budget is great. And it's not great because in September 2018, two months ago, the least children in Croatian history were born in Croatia. Who's to blame? Who's to blame? Tell us to point the finger at him. Here, is Mr. Bauk guilty of that? Is that the boss's fault? Or is it the government's fault that has its mandate right now? It's your fault. Who is to blame that Croatia fell from 4.5 million to 3.5 million people in 30 years. Who's to blame for our mistrust in institutions that the Croatian Parliament has a score of 1.9 can go to repeat classes? Which 94% of citizens don't believe in justice, which is two-thirds of the judicial staff don't believe in what they're doing. And what we have in Parliament, we have Snow Whites, comes, stops for a pay phone, mirrors, mirrors, am I the most beautiful person in the world? Yes, Mr. Representative, you're beautiful and great, but you know, there's a Snow White girl who still doesn't have bread or maybe she can't pay HRT's subscription, so she'll come from Hanžekovic instead of 84 kunas of 5,000 kuna. We don't have kids, we don't have people, and that's what you'd have to see when you're here talking about some kind of government success. The entire budget would have to be subject to demographic recovery. The entire budget should be subordinated to workers who fill the budget, without which there is no growth of GDP or production. The whole state would have to give up until the lowest wage is raised, until the minimum wage rises. We should be saving up. And you'll see in a few years we'll be desperate to miss the workforce, and there's gonna be a recession, and that recession from 2009, is the kind of mother that's gonna be and this one that's coming now, and all of these forecasts are showing. And then there won't be 8% recession, there'll be more. And it won't take us a decade to come to ourselves like this, but it'll take forever for you to experience that you're now telling stories of some kind of recovery. You're telling me we're increasing employment. If all the unemployed you have in Croatia right now, you would hire 100,000 more people. You can't hire 180 thousand people because there aren't 180 thousand people, they're gone. You wrote that in your program and you just didn't count on people not to exist. You're talking about the general government surplus and you're borrowing 30 billion kunas this year, just for a budget without public companies, sell out your assets, you've got a billion kunas in privatisation again. What do you need a sale if you have a surplus? How will you fill out, you say for your pensions you lack 20 billion kuna a year? You're 8 billion short on health care. How are you going to patch it up? What you don't do, you give a billion kuna to health care, you increase contributions, you increase by cigarettes, you want to increase extra insurance, and you still don't have enough because you don't have reforms. You're telling me by tax reform we raised GDP by 0.3% and then you have an oil that takes 1% of your GDP until you say cookie. Why don't you break the debt of slavery? Why don't you solve a case of Swiss, overpaid interest, bank charges? Why don't you make a tax discharge that would be bigger than GDP growth? There is no story of any tax discharge as long as taxes grow faster than GDP. If taxes, you yourself wrote in your budget growth at 3.2% per year and GDP growth is 2.5%, no discharge, no math for small children. You just drain the extra people, take people what they don't have, take their lives. And in that case, what are we witnessing? We're witnessing that you're infinitely imaginary of not knowing my grand success and that you're coming here and you're still loathing over us, you're saying look at how successful we are. You are not successful, and it is not my opinion, but your opinion of the entire Croatian people And now you just enjoy yourselves till the end of this evening. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Dear fellow Bunjac]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106724	Next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106725	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking about how to actually point to what's going on here. And I've been thinking for a long time, and I've thought about a fairy tale called the Emperor's new tulip. In fact, our prime minister here boasts that the budget is supreme and, moreover, not just him, many are clapping and saying that, yes, to the prime minister, yes, this is perfect etc. And so I decided to read to you the fairy tale of the Emperor's new tulip because I think the best thing really speaks about is the state of our finances. He says like this, once upon a time, there was a emperor who loved his beautiful new clothes so much that he spent all his money to dress nicely. Mr. Maric, there's also a minister in this fairy tale. He didn't care about his soldiers, his theater or his trip to the woods. All he cared about was showing up in new clothes. He changed clothes every hour. It is usually said to the ruler that he is in the councilroom, but this could always be said, the emperor is in his dressing room. In the great king's city, there was live and fun, every day many strangers came to visit, but one day two cheaters came. They presented themselves as weavers, and told the emperor that the fabric which they made was the most beautiful which they could imagine. Except that the colors and patterns of the fabric are unusually beautiful, the clothes made of it, she had a strange feature that she was invisible to all people who were incapable of their work or unforgivably stupid. It's obviously a wonderful outfit, thought the emperor, when I'm in it, will know who in my empire is not capable of his service, and I'll be able to tell the wise from the stupid. I have to get these clothes as soon as possible. The Emperor gave the cheaters a lot of money, so they could start weaving as soon as possible. They immediately set up two weaves, pretending to work. They demanded the finest silk and the brightest gold, which they then stored in their bags, working on empty cracks until long night. I wonder how the weaving of my new clothes is going, think of the emperor. He had little around his heart to think that stupid and incompetent people wouldn't be able to see that beautiful fabric. He was sure he had nothing to be afraid of, but first he decided to send someone else to see how business was going. Everyone in town already knew everything about the miraculous power of fabric and everyone was curious to see how stupid or incompetent their neighbors were. I'll send my old honest minister, I'll make a deal with the Emperor. He'll be best able to see what the fabric looks like because he's smart, and no one's doing their job better than he is. The old honest minister, he went to the hall where the cheaters were sitting and to God's weaving on empty robbery. God forbid, I don't see anything, think of the old minister with his eyes cut out, but he didn't say anything. The cheaters asked him to come closer, asking him if the colors and the pattern of fabric really weren't wonderful, calling for empty cracks, while the old minister kept staring, but he couldn't see anything, because there was nothing there either. Oh, my God, he meant the minister. Am I really stupid? I really didn't mean that. No one should know that. I'm really not capable of my job, no, I can't tell anyone I don't see the fabric. He says further, don't you have anything to say to him by one of the weavers? O very, very nice, truly beautiful, answered the old minister, beautiful colors and pattern, yes, I will tell the Emperor that I really like the fabric. That's what we're very glad to hear, said weavers, and begin to list colors and describe the pattern of fabric. The old minister listened very carefully, so he could pass everything on to the emperor. The cheaters now asked for more money, silk and gold because they needed it to weave. They put everything in their pockets, and there was nothing to see on the robberies, while they continued to knead the invisible fabric. The Emperor soon sent another honest minister to examine how the weave progressed and whether the clothes would soon be sewn and he looked and watched, but saw nothing but empty cracks. Yes, isn't this really a beautiful piece of fabric? Both cheaters spoke and showed and explained all the wonderful patterns that didn't exist at all. I'm not stupid, he thought. Am I really not up to my job? That's weird, but I guess I'd better keep my mouth shut. So commend the fabric that he did not see and convince them that he is very comfortable with all the fears and patterns. Yeah, that's really the nicest thing to say to the Emperor. The whole town was talking about beautiful fabric. The Emperor just wanted to see her while she was still out there. With a great escort with those two honest old ministers, there are skilled con artists who still had nothing to do with their pregnancy. Yeah, isn't he a magnifice, they were both speaking to an honest minister. Your Majesty must take a look at the patterns and colors they showed in the blanks because they thought the others saw the clothes. What this is, thought the Emperor, I don't see anything, so it's terrible, am I stupid, am I not worthy of being the emperor, it's the worst thing that could happen to me. O very nicely said the Emperor, my confession and he was pleased to agree to watch the empty raids because he had not to show that he didn't see anything, everyone from the escorts looked and watched, but they didn't see more than the others, so just like the emperor said, about what beauty, and advised him to put these new clothes on the first next procession. Magnific, wonderful, excelent, the story spread from mouth to mouth, everyone was thrilled. The Emperor assigned a fraud to the Order of the Knights Cross, and declared them to be gentlemen's weavers the night before the procession the cheaters sat awake with 16 candles. Everyone was watching as they hurried to finish the emperor's new tulip. They were pretending like they were taking the fabric off the paint, cutting the air with their big scissors, sewing needles without end, and eventually they said, "Here's the clothes now ready." Along with the most excellent halls, the emperor himself comes for clothes, and the two cheaters blow their hands up, like they're holding something and they say here's a pair of pants, here's a shirt, here's a cape, etc. Light as a spider so it feels like you have nothing on your body, which is the greatest virtue of this fabric. That all the courtmen should answer even though they saw nothing, for there was nothing to see. If Your Majesty were to be merciful and take off his clothes, the cheaters said, we'll put you in a new one here in front of the big mirror. The king put off all his clothes, and the deceivers made themselves as though they had clothed him with one piece of clothing, and caught him round about the waist, and bound his laps to the king, while the king turned in front of the mirror. Oh, my God, how beautiful it is, how beautiful it is, how beautiful a pattern, how beautiful a color it is, is an expensive suit. The ballad bearers await your Majesty's arrival, said the master master of the ceremony. Yeah, I'm ready to say Emperor, don't you look good, once again turn to the mirror because he had to pretend like he actually saw his beautiful suit. The courtmen who were in charge of laps touched the floor and pretended to raise them, then held them in the air, dared not say that they saw nothing. The emperor goes into the procession, in front of a beautiful ballad, all the people are in the streets and the windows, as the emperor's new clothes are incomparable, as his lovely belt is on his shirt. No one dares to say that they don't actually see anything because it would mean that he's either not capable of his duties or he's very stupid. Of all the emperor's departments, this was the greatest success. But he said naked some little kid. God, that innocent voice, said the father, and from ear to ear, spread the story of it. He's naked telling a little kid, he's got nothing on him. The Emperor's naked everyone was yelling at the end. It wasn't easy for the Emperor because he seemed right, but think of this procession I must endure to the end. He kept himself even more proud as the courtmen followed him by holding no existing laps. There's dear ladies and gentlemen, like the beautiful and beautiful emperor's new tulip, so beautiful and wonderful your budget, so good and great this government. And here I am now, instead of a fellow HDZ fellow who sees irony I will begin to clap and say, lived by our Prime Minister Plenkovic this is the top thing you do, run the country in the right direction but there are those people who are not able to see it, shame on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106726	Thank you, dear colleague Pernar. Based on Article 239 due to inappropriate behavior, I give you a warning. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106727	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President, some parliamentary deputies unfortunately do not do their job properly and have not read the budget, but have therefore read fairy-tales, and therefore it is likely that some self-responsible MPs care to lower the age limit of voters, then probably children would vote for them because serious and responsible citizens would certainly not. As far as this budget is concerned, he's primarily rational, which means he's not spending more than he's got. It also reduces public debt at the same time, and in my view these are the simplest words of the basic.../incomprehensible/... of this budget. I'm going to talk about this budget through two, maybe some unusual resistor, but it's very important if we talk about stability and security. Because Croatia has recently, and in fact, if we look at historically, always in one unstable area and it is not rare to read that this is some kind of Balkan powder keg, and back several years it has a new dimension, or a new meaning of this sentence. And there's no tourism, there's no economy, there's no general stability and security of the state without stable portfolio finances like the MORH and like the MUP. And that is why I am apostrophysing them as particularly significant in this budget, of course, I am not reducing any other portfolio in this budget and stressing the rationality of this budget and the vision of stability. If we look at the items of the budget then I will first touch the MUP and say that the budget is increasing by 97 million kuna, of which the salaries and material costs go 50 million kuna, and it is important to say that the budget funds of the MUP are in fact connected in part with these budgets, let's say that they are disbursed to the European funds, while activities concerning illegal migration from which the costs of asylum and internal affairs and the costs of the border police are actually maximumly financed from the EU funds as well as the purchase of certain parts of the equipment, and thus disbursing the state budget. Now, if we objectively look at all these items, I'm taking care of the weather so I won't go too far, at this point in fact the MUP in the years ahead, and we know that we have a commitment to Schengen to further redistributions of people won't be able to fully provide the necessary assistance at the state border if, on a daily basis, 500 reserve officers are involved, that number will have to be higher, but in order for the MUP to respond in the future to this secure global migration crisis and adequately enter the Schengen border control system, then it definitely needs an additional 50 million kuna. And this government, therefore, and the MUP and the MORH, are facing some new moments for the first time, and above all when we talk about migration, it should be said that Croatia has received the support of European institutions and relevant bodies for the modality of border management, and these are not empty words, but they are factual documents. As far as the MUP is concerned, it is being spent rationally, but the goal is to operate all the services and especially the border police where the pressure is strong. And these people, therefore, police officers and employees have recently worked in rather poor conditions and I hope that the greater the budgeting of these workers will be easier, because we all know how to distinguish illegals from legal migration. We all know the difference between illegal and legal entry into a country and we all see that Croatia has not reached for some drastic methods as some neighbouring country and we see that regardless of the limited number of police officers it is still the situation, and it is the world's migrant crisis and Croatia is just a transit country still under control. As for the MORH as another important factor of stability and security of the state, then if we look at the items of the budget at speed, we see, for example, the position of equipment, modernisation and construction, that more than 257,9 million are planned in the next year and that a really significant shift in the supply of shoes, clothing, better nutrition of officers, officers and soldiers, construction and reconstruction of objects has already been made. Now that we speak specifically, then I can say that there are military facilities involved, reconstruction of the military station in Ploča, Varazdin, Split, aircraft bases in Pula, Zemunik, Split, military polygon of Gasinca, Dugo Selo, Vinkovci, Nasice, etc. etc. Purchase of armored vehicles of € 102.3 million and €5 coastal, coastal ships. Of course we also participate in NATO's integrated anti-aircraft defence system. Many do not know the fact, i.e., that fact goes somehow under the radar, that how important it is to participate in the MRLs and to mitigate the damage and to save lives in natural disasters. For the first time in 15 years, Croatia has a national security strategy and it is not a simple document, it is a very, very important document whose realisation has proved to be crucial in already natural disasters, for example in fires and floods, and only during this tourist season Croatian Air Force carried 627 emergency domestic patients, 141 foreign patients, were born even 2 children on that helicopter trip. And what's important is that, of course, it doesn't allow me to have a wide discussion. But all I'm saying is more than clear. The proposal for 2019 as regards these two MRLs and the MUP is primarily a detachment for people, therefore, for the people, for the quality of the work of these people in these restaurants and for modern defence and for modern protection. The man is in focus, it's important to say the man who, on the one hand, needs to be helped, and on the other hand, the man who is part of these resistors. And what's also important to emphasize. Well, for the first time in fact, Croatian soldiers got those financial fees they didn't have for duty, for the field, for the guards, etc. So, instead of current situations, where their contracts are forever extended indefinitely, now they finally have, they can plan families. It went the same way with the amendments to the law. Therefore, this budget is very rational as regards these 2 MORH and MUP resolutions, as far as the MRLs are concerned, is very advanced and is growing each year, as regards the MUP, if we compete with the MORH there is still a lack of funds to compensate for on some of the following occasions. And I think that first of all, it should be stressed that at this point, it is an emphasis on Croatia being able to maintain its stability and maintain its security, and these factors are the preconditions for all of these other factors that we are talking about and that we are dealing with each serious budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106728	I would like to thank my colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, a replica of my esteemed colleague Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106729	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vukasnović, I am just pleased to have this discussion about the budget because it takes a long time tonight, and here we have not mentioned it. rarely who mentioned the administration of these two resistors, which you mentioned, means the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, as well as the good point that this is actually a prerequisite for any fiscal consolidation and security and tomorrow for the economy. This security provided by these two resistors is actually a prerequisite for the entire financial instability that we actually have today and in the Republic of Croatia. I'd just like to point out that you've mentioned a lot of what the MUP and the MORH are doing for our citizens, and I'd just like you to look back on that, no matter how rational they behave in this budget, to make maximum use of their resources in energy efficiency and rebuilding police stations. Now we have right in Imotski by signing a contract on the construction of a new police existence, not to mention the MORH, the equipment... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106730	Thank you. Answer from a colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106731	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, you know that I speak specifically, but I forgot to mention the renovation of the building and, of course, that it is investing in the energy reconstruction of buildings as regards the MUP as it invests and as far as the MORH is concerned, on the one hand, we have this serious speaking of our colleagues, who are really making arguments, facts and figures. And on the other hand, we have this renewal and a reduction of who took such an extent that it's actually hard for me to listen. Because that amount of insult to Croatian citizens is simply unbearable. A party that has four criminal charges for falsifying the Assembly of the Party, which they have built all their way on the delusions of the people who have been disfellowshipped, they are now moralizing us, people who have never rolled up their sleeves in their lives and done something concrete. So it's something that I absolutely terrorise every serious and educated citizen.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106732	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next debate, dear colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106733	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed ministers with associates. I've been here all day like all of us on the budget, and I have to admit that I've taken two budgets. I took the state and I took the budget of the city of Zagreb because I was interested in some comparisons for the simple reason, which I am sure, that each of us around 10, 20,000 kunas excellent barata, but when millions go and billions, we look at numbers here and it's hard to put it in our head at all, which is what, so I decided on two topics. One topic is for this individual debate. One topic is the Central Sport Office, and the other topic is climate change, because climate change is a fact for everyone except Mr. Trump. And then when we take the budget of our Central Sport Office, that budget is 300 million kuna. We all love the pictures of Croatia, we love the pictures of cheerleading, we like our athletes to lower their successes. What's 300 million kuna? Let's say 300 million kuna, the Zagreb Rotor, the one that's been late for a month with the beginning of the works, and about 300 million kunas will be the Zagreb Rotor so we only know what we're working on. There's so much budget for the Sports Office. And now there are two items that have particularly intrigued me. One item is the state prize for top sports achievements, and these state awards are foreseen in 2019 for 10 million kuna, slightly higher in 2020 because it is the year of the Olympics, and then it is expected to be something, so 13 million kuna. I'm sure when our athletes come, or executives from anything, and when they tell someone, he doesn't believe what he hears and thinks that this false language speaks or anything else. Equally interesting is another item, and I have the feeling that from year to year, the same item is listed in the budget, with the same amount without wanting to do anything, which is the Prevention of Violence by Sports in Schools. For the prevention of violence by sports in schools, the budget envisions 389,000 kuna. I'm curious, what can be done with that amount? I'm afraid, and it's continuous, with the execution of 2017's 114,000 kuna, and then, the plan is about that amount there 2018/2019, I see that my colleagues are watching me, but you've got from the Sport Office and what you've got, going on, but it shows that there's no real intention in that budget that something is going on, but it's this item that goes on. So either we want to deal with the topic of prevention of sports in schools or we cancel the item, let's not hold it to hold it. And here I'm going to end up with the Sports Office, I'm sorry that it's so, I wish there was a bigger item, I wish that the awards for athletes were bigger, that the pictures that we're going to go, and we really like to see and look forward to it, because it's one good and positive energy, but I'm going to use this part of the debate for the right two to go outside the budget user. One is Croatia's waters, and the other is the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. We could, or debate could be related to climate change and could be opened to migration. Therefore, all climate change experts warn that climate change is facts and warn that there will be migration of people due to climate change because people in certain parts of the world will not be able to live. Since we are very successful in ignoring this need for labour, we are also ignoring the fact that the more urgent the entire programme of demographic reconstruction of Croatia, I am not surprised that we are ignoring climate change. And here I went to watch two, so outside of the budget user as I have already said, one is Croatian Waters, and the other is the Fund, because there should, therefore, be some 2020 projections, 2021, to see some step that we are trying to solve this problem. And I'll only warn on a few items. All the time, it has been warned and experts warn that one of the reasons why between the other and the blue in certain areas is that unquality or not well maintained and the waterways or water buildings are being restored, you need to cut grass, remove trees, you need to keep water streams natural, not concrete anything, but that water can be done in the field, and I was curious, I thought there would be some step here and we'll do something new, but we haven't done anything here, but exactly as much as it is done in 2017, that's in 2018, the difference is very, very small and then the proposal for the 2019 and 2020 plan is the same. I use this debate amongst other things, my mom always used to tell me I'm just telling you, and you do what you want.> And then if I did something wrong, then she'd tell me I told you, and I'm getting more and more involved in that situation. So I'm using this budget debate to just point to the fact that climate change is facts, facts for the whole world. Climate change that they are not there, and that they do not exist, but are fictions of the media, says Mr Trump, and I am afraid that these two outside of the budget user, the budgets of the Republic of Croatia are acting as if they really are not there. One new item is in Croatian waters, 50 million kunas for rinks, but the item in the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund has been abolished. And since I have relatively little time, then I'm going to say about the Environmental Protection Fund next, waste management. By 31.12.2018, we must, no longer be disposed of on dumps that have not been recovered. So, just on the rescheduled. 31.12.2018, is tomorrow, and in the budget says that we will make all our dumps by 2023 until the beginning of 2023 we are left with 4 years. So far, we have two letters and a number two in the preparation documentation of those 10 we have in 2019. Bikarac second stage and Biljana donja, then in 2019 there will be Babina gora, Lečevica, Piškornica, Lučino distance and the rest of 3 Zagreb, Orlovnjak and Sagulje will be behind it. So, I'm sure no matter how late it is that no one in this assembly believes that everything we haven't done by now we'll do for the rest of the four years. Ministers of Finance, you or someone else will pay for the penalty. We'll simply pay them if we can't avoid them because it's absolutely impossible to do so in that period. You can't come to a maternity home and say that all women should be born in four months, because I can't because there's some sort of flow. I mean, I'm saying it already in these late hours a little bit more plastic than I should. Equally there is a course for the project, you have to have a feasibility project, you have to have an environmental impact assessment, you have to have a project, you have to conduct a public debate, it's just impossible to do. As we have in the budget this year, the subject of the Oilies in the following budgets will be the subject of none of the EU members have passed the lichen, as we say, all received certain foams. Everything here says in the budget of the Energy Efficiency Fund, environmental protection says what we've done and what we're going to do. And so it simply states that it cannot be realized and cannot be defined. With something else going on, and I'm looking very carefully at some other things that I think is important enough to say, I say. Encouragement of sustainable construction by the Environmental Protection Fund, he placed 22 million kunas and said it would make energy efficiency energy efficiency of multi-state buildings from this will co-finance the purchase and installation of condensation boilers and chimney reconstruction, parallel to the City of Zagreb budget. In the budget of the City of Zagreb you have 20 million kuna for the restoration of facades only and we all think it is too small because you can restore 15 to 20 facades. And another thing that is extremely important, all EU countries encourage energy efficiency in transport, to use biofuels, to power cars and everything else. The same way when you look at our fund it predicted 46 million in 2019, but then to keep it going it planned that over the years that item was shrinking, so it was all upside down and wrong. So climate change is a fact, we see them every day, we don't see them Mr. Trump and I'm afraid these two extra budget users of our budget don't see it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106734	I thank my esteemed colleague, the replicas. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106735	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, I will agree with you on the importance of climate change, and you will probably agree with me on how difficult and demanding business is and how much it really requires prudence and stability and seriousness, so if you want and responsibility, and if some mistake is made in the end, there will be no failure if we are guided by these elements that I have said and if we work responsibly. I guess I'm sad that no one in the Living Wall gave me a replica, so I have to answer that now. A little speech that was actually followed by works is much more important to me than a lot of empty speech without a part, and I know that we will surely agree in this, and I hope that your cancer will continue to be to see what is good with this government, and what is not objectively indicated unlike some colleagues. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106736	...to my colleague Vuksanovic. The answer to a respected colleague of the Dark-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106737	Thank you very much, colleague, so each of us has its own way of looking, each of us has our own way of life, each of us has some kind of career professional, so this place is an upgrade to that, and someone I'm afraid I have other options. All the debates that I'm trying to lead, I'm leading in a way that I'm trying to make argument and to point to facts, I didn't accidentally say, my mom tells me I told you, I use this assembly for a reason to warn the fact. Maybe someone will hear something. Maybe someone will do something. For what reason? For the reason that the task of all of us, regardless of whether we are ruling or opposition to leave behind some result and if this debate has prompted someone to say look, we really did something wrong here, I've already done the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106738	I would like to thank my dear colleague, the next replica of my dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106739	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Mrak-Taritash, this is also a very important topic, and this is a question of the profession that slightly extends this issue of budget, because the profession can always control the flow of money. For local self-government units, one of the very important or very important types of expenditure or projects is in the area of water supply, draining or water protection. And watch out for disposal we now have a big problem of pre-limension systems, systems that cost a lot, we will have in the future certainly a change of many projects because other than climate change we have demographic, demographic dying or a reduction of population and here's a picture showing. I welcome the village capins, but you know what happened there, 900 liters of water, 900 liters per second somewhere on 17 km of network, at the same time the water supply system has 20 km of network with 60 liters per second with pump stations This irrigation system will need to consume energy... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106740	I would like to thank my colleague, Sagar, the answer of my colleague Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106741	Thank you very much, so we're very fond of these megalomanic projects. So you're right when you say and because of the demographic image in Croatia, some projects won't be possible. I've spent my life working on spatial planning in principle. And back in the '80s when I was at the end of college, all the spatial plans were made on the code year 2000. And then that code year in 2000, we had spatial plans, construction areas in Croatia for 22 million inhabitants. We don't have $4 million today. What do I want? I want to make contact with the general drain systems. When the first projects started, when we started applying with the first projects to solve the problem of draining in front of the EU, they told us how much you have on the last census you have so much, the increase you want to have so much, redesign. And it's really a fact that we have projects that are much, much bigger than needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106742	I thank my esteemed colleague, Anki Dark Tarritash, for your reply. Next debate, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am, in my debate tonight, going to talk briefly about some of the fees that were not really mentioned here today except that this morning the prime minister mentioned them in his debate and the minister also in his. I will not speak exclusively of social benefits although some of them are already about the fees that I have, it would be too much to list but some are extremely important and they are in different restaurants. Personal disability, you've heard of it, aid and care allowance, nursing status, orthopaedic aid, spin center, teaching assistants, books for blind and impaired students, Institute of Skills, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Incentives for the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Child Care, Care for People with Mental Disabilities, Building of the Educational and Educational Centre Vinko Bek, Educational Compensation, Advocate for Persons with Disabilities, etc., etc. It would be a lot more, but it would take me a long time to get it all together. So, all these fees and the Attorney General's Office for Persons with Disabilities are being recorded in this budget an increase. That's what we expected, that's what people with disabilities are I have to say for some of these fees waited 20 years thinking of a personal disability and an allowance for help and care. Personal disability, care allowance, and nursing status, only three rights are growing by approximately 117 million kuna. Extra orthopedic aids for 50 million kuna. You can imagine what that means to those who need it. Finally, we have welcomed the provision of resources in the state budget for the spin centre and we believe that people with spinal injuries who today do not have adequate care and the kind of rehabilitation they should have after the spinal injury will be given an institution in which they will be rehabilitated as quickly as possible and as soon as possible to engage in life. Assistants in the class, we all know what it means to today's students, and a few days ago we got a rule on assistants in class and the resources for assistants are increasing. For a long time, blind and undersighted persons have warned that the books on Braille’s letter are what is needed because anyone who does not know how to read “a brother ” is not a written person for them. When we talk about incentives for the employment of people with disabilities, I will not talk much about it because on several occasions in this assembly we have had the opportunity to listen to about it and also recently when we have adopted amendments to the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities we have the opportunity to see just these days to set up integrated workshops. So what was foreseen by the 2015 law, only this year has functioned. And integrated workshops have the right to encourage people with disabilities, so here I am glad that these funds are also increasing. The Vinko Beck Center you've all probably heard of, here's finally scheduled to build that center. A lawyer for disabled persons a few days ago opened a new office in Osijek. In the following year it was planned in Split, in 2020, the office in Rijeka, and so on in Pula, and for this the funds are provided for in the position of the Ombudsman for people with disabilities. Could we have done more? Maybe it's fair. And as my colleague Lovrinovic said in his debate, it is not necessary to give crumbs, it seems to me that he said so. I could agree with that, he said you needed to make money for your life, that's correct. However, there will always be those who will never be able to work and will always be those who are disabled and who, because of their disability, simply put, have a more expensive life. Therefore, it is necessary to increase these fees in line with life’s needs, and we started, as I said, for 20 years we waited for the personal disability to grow. In this year we have been able to do this, we expect, here, in the following year, ministers are appealing to you, to consider and release personal disability from all possible censorships because in BiH, and in Republika Srpska there are no censors for this fee, since it is a fee for disability, and there is no social compensation. Therefore, here, in the context of the drafting and adoption of the next year of the new Social Welfare Act, I believe that we will solve this problem as well. Thus, they would also expand the circle of disabled people who could achieve their compensation and who could meet the basic needs of life because, as I said, their life is more expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106744	I thank my esteemed colleague. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106745	I'd like to thank the Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Since in previous exhibitions I have generally talked about the budget itself and everything, as well as the situation, I will just now concentrate on what is most important, especially for Slavonia, Baranja and the city of Osijek, where I come from. And what I can commend and have already mentioned is when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja and investing in the road, therefore, it is 40 million kuna for the Vinkovci bypass, 200 million kuna Vukovar. What's good about me is 38 million kuna for a tour around the White Manastir, which is in the plan and, of course, 51.5 million for a tour around the Petrians. This about Petrijevac should actually be one beginning, or whatever you want, the end and something that I also handed over to the Amendments, first of all, to build a fast road, from Bjelovar, means, Zagreb-Bjelovar, Virovitica-Donji Miholjac-Osjek, therefore, our sub-level fast road or sub-level highway, to simply start in this way of thinking. The amendment goes to open an item in the budget, for project documentation with somewhat symbolic means, but to think in this direction, to start finding solutions, the first step when it comes to financial opportunities that can be realised as soon as possible because I think that road, not only would increase safety and ultimately reduce the maintenance costs of the existing road because we know that the trucks that pass there, if we talk about the droppers, that they have the equivalent of nearly 10 thousand vehicles, as far as the damage to the stake itself is concerned, but of course, countless times we have witnessed the tragic accidents on those shares. It would also mean a lot for the economic and economic development of the whole of Podravina, faster integration, more economically, so I think it's one project that would be the same for reviving Slavonia itself. While we are already on traffic stories, one important, important project for the city of Osijek is finally denivellation, i.e. underpass over the Chepin road and the road of St. Leopold Bogdan Mandic, where huge columns are created that... at the spring crossing, and I think it's the same thing to start thinking about project documentation and solving all the preconditions that can be welcomed, all the funding options and that's something we need... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We need to talk and we need to think. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, as far as Osijek is concerned, an amendment I handed over to a million kuna is tied to mosquitoes. Now, first of all, we can talk about and levels of different epidemics. We know that several people and are seriously hospitalized in Croatia and Osijek, especially if mosquitoes transmit, really, highly contagious diseases, without talking about the quality of life itself and Osijek, but also all the surrounding places, is the city of Osijek enough, I mean enough, can't single out enough funds, allocates a lot of funds, but it's not just the city of Osijek, it's a problem and surrounding places. We know there's Drava, the Danube, especially the Kopački ass, and the municipalities can't participate financially in this project. So, I think that these are three concrete proposals that will improve the quality of life of residents and citizens in Slavonia and Baranja, and above all, that they are based on the real possibilities of this budget, so don't look, I don't know what, but first of all I want to see that good will in these traffic projects to go, uh, yes, up to 5 minutes, I won't worry about thinking about it. What is fundamentally important in this very budget, especially when we have provided in our portfolios, when we talk about the HNS, these are, above all, 130 million kunas for reform, the continuation of the Kuricular Reform. Furthermore, we have 50 million kunas for information, digitisation or reform... land administrations, therefore, what we all know is that the brake is one and more normal, faster business or real estate management. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, there are nearly 45 million kunas for interurban transport, new loans for young people are going, and therefore, new funds go to 30 million kuna for municipal projects. I think this budget is extremely realistic about its evaluations and conservative and I hope these amendments agree to it, that they are really framed and they are real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106746	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. Dear colleague Nikola Grmoy. Dear colleague Tomislav Paninic. Dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106747	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here we have today debated the new Budget Draft, I come from rural areas, I have also outlined in the draft of the new Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, and I am really surprised at the regional policy of Croatia, which plans with 80 million kunas planned in the assisted area and 30 million kunas planned for mountainous and mountainous areas, to keep people in 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia. I said in an individual debate that if we shared these 30 million kunas of mountain-mountan area for 45 cities and municipalities that are present today, they would be classified under the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, where they live according to the 2011 census of about two hundred, two thousand inhabitants, they would actually receive aid of 150 kuna and with such state measures of regional development, we should keep the population in the area and Dalmatia Zagora, and the area of Like, and the area of Gorski Kotar and part of Slavonia. However, as Croatia, or the Croatian budget, refers in terms of regional diversity and measures that promote the even development of Croatia, I cannot possibly be clear on the fact that I do not mind, however, and I believe that it is correct that islands reject 195 million kuna and a cumulative mountainous area and an assisted area according to the draft Budget of 110 million kuna. Now look at the paradox, if we have the development index as the only indicator of the development of local self-government units in the 8th and 7th groups are most of the islands, and the most underdeveloped are just from the mountainous area and the assisted area. If islands refuse a cumulatively 195 million kuna for which I don't mind, according to regional development, the assisted area and mountainous area should get 3x more. Because it absolutely doesn't make any sense, and I'd like that logic to be explained to me by the Minister of Regional Development or if there is a member of the HDZ that remains a replica. What is this justice that on 2/3 of Croatia's surface on three hundredths and some units of local self-government gives cumulative aid of 110 million kuna, if we know that this is the rural most developed area, that this first-class has the least, that this school is being closed and so on? However, in my presentation, according to my one amendment, I will look back on another problem. The problem of Croatia's future, the problem that will happen next to the rural territory of Croatia in all those units of local self-government that have received grants for the construction of new kindergartens. I would now ask a question and who will fund kindergarten aunts in these local self-government units that expand? If we have one information or we have a relative or policy of the European Union, the European Council brought in a strategic document in Barcelona in 2020 and set out for the purpose of all members of the European Union to cover 33% of children and 90% of children from the third to the sixth year should be in kindergartens or kindergartens. Croatia has a devastating result if we look at 2015 these 19.9% were in the mangers, 57 in the other groups. But when we look inside the Croatian schedule between and this large, simple illogical distribution, we see in fact that Zagreb is meeting already this year, all these aspects of the Barcelona Agreement, while, for example, rural areas such as Vukovar-Srijemska, Požesko-Slavonska, Brod-Posaviska, Virovitica-Podravska County, have less than 10% children in mangers, and less than 33% in kindergartens if we talk about educational groups from the third to the sixth year. What's this all about? It happens primarily because of the high price in the rural area, because if the budget of the local unit is smaller, normally the fiscal capacity is smaller and simply less able to participate in the participation of the economic value of the child, and we all know that the average salary in the rural area of Croatia is not the same as the average salary at the level of the Republic of Croatia. It's this big difference between urban and rural areas, which is why I've given one amendment worth 200 million kuna, and I know it won't be accepted, but it will update this problem, because if we wanted to reach this 90 percent element in kindergartens by 2020, or 33 in a nursery, we should have 5310 new breeders. Do you know what 5310 new breeders are supposed to be in the rural area? This is, if the average gross salary of the raiser in the kindergarten is 95000 kuna, it falls out by mathematics almost 500 million kuna, who will finance it?, which units of local self-government?, because it is the easiest to make kindergarten through grants, through the measure of demographics but who will finance the aunts in kindergartens? One more thing, to be clear, I personally believe that kindergarten is not a place where children will be kept, but one educational institution, and that is where there is an extremely large gap between urban and rural areas, because we see that urban areas satisfy these aspects as much as % of children's satisfaction in certain educational groups, while rural areas simply do not satisfy, or are indeed lagging behind, so that all children in Croatia do not have the same chance. I really hope that this problem will be systematically devoted primarily to the Ministry of Demography, that certain funds will be found, I see that they are not present in 2019, I hope in the following year, because all those kindergartens that are being built today in the rural area through rural fund measures in this measure 7 4 which have now been applied, or those going to the next measure, simply the local self-government units will have nothing to finance the work of the employees within themselves. I will personally look back at another project local, it is one connected road Ravca-Drvenik, it is not a connected road Ravca-Drvenik as a local project that would solve all the traffic collapses of the ferry port Split because it would update the ferry port of Drvenik. It's a project, there's a lot of talk about the project, but there's a lot of lying about the project, and it's lying about us behind Biokovlje and Primorje and Western Herzegovina and the island. This project is systematically ignored and I don't really know in this draft there's nothing against the tunnel via Kozjak. But if we see that this project that I'm talking about already exists between the Croatian roads and Croatian highways, if it has a legitimate location permit and a second change from 2016, if it has a memorandum signed by 21 units of local self-government and mayor of Split-Dalmatia County, if we have a former secretary of state who opened the works from 2009, I don't really know what to prove to the Government that this project means survival for Biokovlje, that it means the development of the Makarska coast, that it means the update of the ferry port of Drvenik, that it means the revitalisation of the eastern island, part of the island of Hvar, that it means a better connection with the island of Korčula, because it absolutely meets all aspects and even those cross-border aspects of integration of western Herzegovina with the highway A1 of Vrgorac. I gave a personal amendment and I told the mountain-mounted area to increase the redundancies in the budget, this is really funny 30 million kuna. I don't know how well it is known entrepreneurs from the mountainous and mountainous area cannot possibly be competitive with entrepreneurs of another part of Croatia. We all know what problems we have with unclassified roads, mostly Gorani around the snow. We all know in the Dalmatian area that the most expensive water is the vertical dismemberment of the terrain. So even if you think that with 30 million kuna, we can help our economies. First of all, I'm not talking about capital projects and foot-and-mouth disease because if this type of investment policy continues, where local self-government units will be helped to build nogosts. So here and specifically to build and spin that no one will have to finance the aunts in kindergartens will be the situation that, according to these new leggoes, new streets are restored or similar to some municipal infrastructures which say that certain funds will not have anyone to walk if we know that 180 people move out of Croatia daily, and it does not move out of Zagreb or Split, I mean Rijeka, or Istria is evicting from Dalmatia Zagora, Like and Gorsko Kotar, Zagorje and Slavonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106748	I thank my colleague Pranic. We have replicas. Dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106749	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague, Pranić, can even agree with you about this dispute, Ravča Drvenik, is definitely necessary and this will mean not only for the Vrgorak region but also for Drvenik, Makarska and Sučura something that means between Zagvozd and Baška Voda, but the first because you are coming as a representative from the 10th electoral unit should support this budget if we are only looking at this last year, if we are only looking at the last 2 years of traffic infrastructure from the Kaštelan fast road opening, from the Čiovo bridge, from the inclusion in budget 2 major projects and this is Stobreč, Dugi Rat, Omis, the first phase of the value of 250 million kuna. Not to mention the combined road of Vučevica A1 worth 870 million kuna as much as the Pelješki bridge will mean the same for Vrgorac, not only for Dubrovnik-Neretva County but not to mention at the meeting of the Government that was on Hvar Rukavac-Vis, 27 million kuna, Czech villa road 12.5 million, Island of Ciovo first phase 12 million, Nerežišće 36, etc., etc..
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106750	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. The answer of my colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106751	My colleague Bačić, I am otherwise a supporter of investments in the rural area of Croatia and everything you have stated is now located in the urban area of Split-Dalmatia County, all of Split's conglomerations. And what happens in Croatia? You, apart from the process of evicting outside the borders of Croatia, have an express process of urbanising Croatia, leaving the rural part of Split, for example, from Dalmatia, Zadar or Zagreb. I personally believe that Croatia is not Zagreb and what is seen from Gornji Grad and Split and what is seen from Marjan. Croatia is both Vrgorac and Imotski and Sinj and Trilj and Delnice and Vrbovska and Lepoglava and Orahovica and other parts. I would like to say in Split-Dalmatia County we see in the plan and the road Imotski and Zagvozd and Vrgorac road or the road Sinj-Dugopolje and so on. And there are no such infrastructure projects, so the best thing to do is to completely evict the people of Dalmatia... Split and we have a reservation called the Dalmatian Zagora. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106752	I thank my colleague Pranic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Dragica Roscic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106753	Thank you. Here's a distinguished colleague, Pranic, we're all sensitive when you talk about the Drvenik-Ravca tunnel and last year the amendments went too, and then we would, of course, like me coming from that constituency, of course it's my priority, and that Zagora has as much money as possible, so that the Law on the financing of local self-government units of Vrgorac has received 6.6 million kuna more and as far as showing analytical projects such as the Drvenik-Ravca tunnel are being shown, because it is now a step that we can't jump to the conclusion of the government that was in Split, so the last meeting of the Government in Split-Dalmatia County is clearly the conclusion that such documentation is being made. Last year's amendment was there because it was required to be transferred from Croatian roads, i.e. from county roads and funds used for the maintenance of roads in Vrgorca area and not to highways, since the project is the jurisdiction of Croatian highways because it is just a merger on the highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106754	I'd like to thank my colleagues, Rostice. The answer of my colleague Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106755	Of course, colleagues Rosčić obviously do not know that the last amendments to the Law on the Hill and Mountain Area 1.1.2015 during the night the cities lost us 35 that were not supported by 155 million cumulative incomes. Now imagine you're in Baška Guided by someone, the mayor, overnight, cutting the city's budget for double. So let's not talk about fiscal balancing. I could confirm to you the fact that you're spilling the hollow into empty same money. So we're talking about, yes, Vrgorac has received some funds and these funds mean more to him to patch up those debts from afar without talking about the political options we inherited. As for Ravča Drvenik, this is Mr. Bačić who officially opened the works in 2009 and this is an investment, we're talking about project documentation today, so who's lying about who? So we're talking project documentation, investment, which opened in 2009. This investment has a changed location permit, a powerful one, let the location permit of the Kozjak tunnel be shown.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106756	I would like to thank my colleague Pranic, next replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106757	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Pranic, unlike you who say I'm lying, I'll tell you not to tell the truth. Namely, I'm a tunnel to Ravcha Drvenik. I'm for building a full profile highway to Dubrovnik. I'm also for building a fast road airport... Dubrovnik. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I expect it to be in the Croatian Roads budget. At this point, it is not shown in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, as Col. Dragica told you, for reasons that the budget is shown at 4 levels, in 5 levels it is not shown and I expect to complete the documentation of the outcome of the building permit, for all important projects of the south of Croatia. According to this, Mr. Pranic's colleague, he knows what he will do without your sufflage and Mr. Panenic's mayor who knows how to think with his own head, so he will know, but it's not true, so I support my colleague, Pranic, building a tunnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106758	I thank my esteemed colleague Bačić, the answer, my colleague Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106759	I guess I can read something in the draft budget and find these dates on the highway, where I don't see that it was defined at all in 2021. As far as the Ravča Drvenik tunnel is concerned, let's finally tell the truth. So we have an agreement of the Croatian Roads signed by the President of the Management of Stjepan... and Croatian highways, president of the 2005 Board of Directors Maria Crnjak [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1. says the connected road Ravča Drvenik making an construction of major projects, geodetic, parceling, geotechnical land purchase, administrative construction process, by the end of 2008. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So who was in power then? It was HDZ, but why didn't it go away? It didn't work out because someone was pushing out of some interest this tunnel of Baška Water Zagvozd, why can't it pass now? Because out of some interest is pushed the tunnel Kozjak Vukčevce, i.e., the joint of the Wolf below Kaštela, the tunnel Kozjak. And why is that pushed? If we all know that strategic plans mean this road is the opening of the ferry port of Drvenik and the revitalisation of the ferry port of Drvenik of the eastern island of Hvar. See how much real estate is in the eastern island of Hvar, which stands... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106760	Thank you, dear colleague Pranic. We move to the next debate, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, is not present, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, is not present, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106761	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable representatives of the government of colleagues and colleagues. ... I'm sorry that the minister isn't here, he probably had to leave something, make some kind of statement, otherwise he sits here all day, I wanted to tell him something personal, and maybe if he did, I'll tell him, but this is what he would like to say for introduction, that the state budget is one of the products, whose making takes longer than guaranteeing him, it's that kind of product. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We hope the guarantee on this product lasts longer than six months. I don't think I'm gonna have a rebalance for the first six months. What tells us that this could be so is, the high expenditure this budget predicts, these expenditures are practically year by year repeated, they are largely assigned. Now that the minister would ask, how much money he has, whether he has some money to make available, we could conclude that the mayor of the city of Zagreb, the largest city in the Republic of Croatia, has more money, actually more money can determine that he is going to special needs, than Minister Maric can because most of these expenditures are given. In order to cover such huge expenditures, incomes are needed, and in that sense, we have to say so fortunate that the revenues, the state revenues, began to be charged more, mostly, that the minister himself admitted that they generated by spending increased consumption of citizens by domestic demand, and in that sense it is not very good. So, our biggest income, tax revenues from VAT are over 50 billion kn, there are, of course, excise fees and then such income structure, in fact it points to that both entrepreneurship and citizens are burdened exceptionally and a little bit then acts today's inconclusive statement of diameter, when he said that this budget is developmental. What he can actually be developmental on. What is the same generally determined increase in revenue is the withdrawal of funds from EU funds. However, according to media reports, according to what we had the opportunity to remain silent here, we cannot be satisfied with the level or the agreed means, especially those of the funds paid and linked to EU funds. So, on this issue, we should do a lot more work, because if we expect something to generate development, it could certainly be the funds available from the issued funds, and somewhere we have 7 billion euros left at our disposal and a small deadline for those funds to be withdrawn. So we have one huge budget, a huge budget, a budget, which, if we could paintly say, looks like a chubby man dressed in a tight suit and was advised to move as little as possible to avoid the shooting of that department. What the minister is, I said today in the replica of the Prime Minister and also Minister Maric, is certainly to welcome what he emphasizes is how the deficit should be kept under control, if we observe that the increased deficit generates then and increased public debt, and then it affects credit ratings and everything that negatively affects later actually investments and what would trigger production, however there were ministers here, former ministers who claimed that the deficit is not a problem. Today, the prime minister made it very clear that it is not for this deficit to encourage production, to encourage development. Now, I'm not an economist, and I'm not going to get into this kind of controversy whether it's good or bad, but I still have a question, and what exactly does it want to stimulate the development of this country? In what way, if we reduce deficits had great expenditures, our revenues are large solely because of burdens and entrepreneurship as we intend to generate this economic growth. I'd like the minister to say something about that, too, in the closing statement, on what basis does he want it to be? The tax reform he introduced was something, something in that field was done. However, see now in this part of it, colleagues and colleagues warned, reducing the rate of contribution means of employment and for this one for unemployment benefits and protection at work, excuse me, these two contributions were abolished but part of it was then poured into health care where that money was needed. So the economy didn't unload as much as it could, let's just say, but there's a hole in the health care system. And then the question arises why the health system does not make the reforms that are necessary, which the previous government has started. We know that there were great resistances when all we're talking about is the functional merger of hospitals and not talking about abolishing certain hospitals, it's been a huge resistance, and in this sense I'm talking about saying this external example of where the government needs to show its strength, if we want to do something, then we can't calculate it, and especially not the finance minister. I would like to see here perhaps it would be a good solution if the finance minister as well as the president of the state were elected directly, that he be stronger than the political one let's say than the prime minister, because watch out I can now because I said I wish the minister was there. Is the minister stronger today than one mayor? I don't mean stronger physically, but if the minister says no, and he says so I'm going to the Prime Minister now, I'm going to, and now you're going to see that you're going to give. So when I say no, there's no money, in that sense fiscal discipline or financial stabilisation would be much stronger. Someone here today mentioned it wasn't a solution that everyone runs to the minister and pulls him by the sleeve, give him this, give him that, it would be a solution if we knew which way we were going what the priorities were. I'm not saying that this government has no priorities, but what's still bothering me is how we're going to generate that growth, it's projected, now it's 2.9%, so something's going to fall, which is what these branches are, we're now falling industrial production. I'm talking about an increase in wages, minimum wage. I'm the first one to advocate that, and then what happens to us in the industrial sector where we have the lowest, least competitiveness actually jobs. Where, as a rule, workers with medium or lower expertise are.../incomprehensible/... that there will be no cancellation. So we can't by decree encourage production. So, Ministers, once again, please let me just say yes, talk to the mayors, the mayors, the mayors and your fellow ministers, let's see that these funds finally begin to withdraw. A quarter of the towns in the Republic of Croatia have not even withdrawn kuna funds from EU funds. I'm sorry that my colleague Bacic is talking to you now, even though it's too late, these are important topics. They even have, even in the law so-called. Lex to the sheriff was an amendment and I advocated the amendment that units of local self-government can hang out together to withdraw funds from EU funds. Why don't the units do it, why don't this initiative go stronger from downhill, only such an initiative can then, with such an initiative, be able to withdraw funds, but then the ministers you have to perform, if the local self-government units don't have enough money, give them the funds because it can generate certain, certain infrastructure projects and then it can encourage our industry in fact our construction sector to get involved in it. And what else you as Minister of Finance, when we talk about controlling public finances, pay little attention to public procurement in the Republic of Croatia, although it is within the power of the Ministry of Economy, even though we have state control of public procurement procedures there. This is where corridor 5C was mentioned today, there was a public tender and two bidders, one bidder was selected who had a lower, lower fee after that you know who complained about the one who didn't get the job, but you know what he was complaining about, the cancellation of the competition. And then, and then the State Commission took note of the complaint that he was complaining about not getting a job and annulled the competition by official duty, and paid out 100,000 kuna in damages. Such things should not happen in the Republic of Croatia because then they raise doubts about the transparency of spending of public funds, and I think that you as finance minister should in particular, especially work because each kuna which of these 140 billion expenditures must be controlled. Minister, I wish you a lot of success in your work, and I cannot support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106762	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar, for the replicas. Dear colleague Branko Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106763	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Zhagar, I don't think you understood what he meant by the Prime Minister this morning when he spoke about the possibility of encouraging the economy's growth by further borrowing. He said that this growth is based on that this economic growth is not the result and part of the borrowing, but only because of the growth of the economy, because of all the other circumstances resulting from the public finances and measures of the Croatian government, that on the other hand there is the possibility that there may also be an increase in growth as it was in earlier years when economic growth was based on borrowing then by entering investment by encouraging the economy. That's what he was going to say, not what you said and misread it as possible to continue with growth and new borrowing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106764	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. Come in, Mr. Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106765	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Bacic, so perhaps I have mispronounced you, the prime minister said he did not think that he should not continue to be in debt to encourage economic growth because this, in his opinion, is not good. I say some ministers used to be that different opinion. If we're in debt, if it's going towards economic growth, it's not dangerous. What I did, this one, is an incentive, and I said that to the Minister of VAT, right, here, and it was weird to me, the minister was against, he didn't want to respect the amendment to reduce the rate of acidic milk, the general rate of VAT. It's to greet when the profit tax rate is reduced. We've had bigger revenues, in that sense we need a little more ambition, a little more, this one, to say courage, and maybe some things will start.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106766	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Sanader, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106767	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you gave one to hunt hell, and that the minister would choose directly. What do you think if all the ministers were elected directly, what would be a harmonious government, then come out of all options. That government would have worked very well probably, but I've seen it as a joke. However, as far as procurement is concerned, you say, I know one example where the company which did not report to the competition at all, and when the state commission refused, they complained again, when the deadline was extended, they complained again and stalled a major project for a year. What would the team do? And they didn't report to the competition at all, so they're not competitive, and they didn't make an offer for the competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106768	Thank you, dear colleague Sagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106769	Thank you. Vice President yes, they're so-called. professional objectors. Some changes to the Law tried to prevent it. A fellow Sanader when I said it a little picturesquely that the minister might need to choose directly, what is my clean thinking is that the finance minister must play a strong political role because the budget is primarily a political document, he not only plans revenues, expenditures for next year, he is also the result of what the government is doing. And that's why the minister should have a lot more power. Here's to me, I'm going to say one thing. Today, I've had a problem with the Prime Minister speaking for 21, 22, 23 minutes, and the minister is only seven minutes. Of course, I understand that the minister, that the prime minister, explains the government's policy, but it is the minister of finance who must, this one, the minister must keep the register. Minister, keep that register safe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106770	I thank my colleague, Sagar. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106771	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Žagar, you have expressed your regret because numerous units of local self-government have not withdrawn a single kuna or one EUR-o from the European Funds and you believe that one reason is important because they do not have their own funds. For this very reason, you can see the item of the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds, the item of co-financing of EU projects. For 2019, more than 200 million kuna is reserved, which is 66% more than in 2018, and far more than in 2017 when it was planned 66 million. When we add even 1.8 billion kuna to that, which is only in the first 10 months, the units of local self-government were given according to the second package of reform laws. We believe that it is enough that they can also run and participate in EU projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106772	Thank you, colleague Sagar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106773	Dear colleagues, thank you for this replica. Because yet, here, that's the point, maybe I wasn't clear enough. That's why the minister should call on representatives of local self-government units to ask what, then, what's the problem, if you have money. Maybe the problem is that they don't have the resources enough, they can come together and look for the funds together, ask those units that are more successful, if they're not there, then the question is why do we need 555 cities and municipalities. And then the government goes into reform, says okay, if you can't withdraw funds, you don't have your resources, so let's change something. These are the reforms that need to be implemented, but of course, it takes a political decision, so let me put it this way, political courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106774	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Next debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106775	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, we have a budget for 2019 and we can call that a budget that is focused on elections and that it is a pre-election budget and you can freely make copies of pasta because it will be for both 2019 and 2020 because we are followed by presidential elections and parliamentary elections, if this is all the way it is written in the law. The Croatian economy, and then the budget proposed, became dependent exclusively on external factors, are dependent on tourism and investment that should come into the Republic of Croatia, so we depend on others. Industrial production is stagnating, and it is now the last hour to turn on the red light and red alarm before we are back in the banana because both Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Maric are acting as former Prime Minister Sanader and fellow Schuker who told citizens 10 years ago that everything was okay, that everything is going on in our economy, and what's happening now is that we are already standing on a banana already, which is only a matter of time before it slips on it, and together with this government and all of us in the Republic. No wonder the budget is not reformal, which does not offer changes in the management of state finances because we have one completely illegal government and the parliamentary majority. For the first time in Parliament, we have a trade coalition in power that reflects the will of citizens. Such a majority, of course, cannot implement reforms because this budget also shows the impact of various parts of the ruling trade coalition. Such a majority can only trade cannot implement reforms. This budget presented today is based on the assumption of GDP growth of 2.9%, at a time when the economic situation is more favourable, each responsible government would provide for necessary reforms in the budget and provide funding for a day or a year later. But nothing new from HDZ or partners. Instead of using income growth to reduce the expenditure side to reduce the government debt, the increase in revenue has been used to increase expenditure towards the already established practice of all governments in Croatia so far. HDZ now had a chance to make a step, but apparently the appetites were much bigger, and that step didn't happen. Spend while you can, somebody else will pay for it. The growth of 2.9% covers only inflation and we do, and it is the lowest of all of us comparable countries. But Croatian citizens are used to one-digit GDP growth, and apparently this government does not receive a clear signal that economic policy needs to be changed and made an economic turn. And now that the economic situation is favourable. Prevention is much cheaper than treatment and therefore we need to spend it today, now, during this period when oil prices are low and when interest rates are low, and not when it changes, because then it will not be possible. Reforms are reportedly carried out that reduce the tax discharge of entrepreneurs, while at the same time increasing the planned revenues and this one-digit economy of ours. Such as is possible only in the minister's kitchen, because it is evident that the tax burden remains the same, and the increased revenues will not be used to reduce the burden on the economy, but for stronger consumption of the state that should actually be reformed. Because total expenditures are growing somewhere around 7 billion of which 4 billion should come from the European Union. A highly tense story given that withdrawing funds from the European Union is not what they would like, and taught by experience so far, I am not sure that the state will withdraw and require 4 billion in 2019. It should be made clear that instead of the balanced budget that we should have, and we had a chance to have it this year, the state will be in charge of an additional 4 billion kuna and thus will clearly increase public debt. The sky under the clouds raises the cost of property, although we don't even know what property and what for. All hopes are in good tourist season, EU funds and foreign investments. GDP growth in a healthy economy should be based on exports and investments, but there is always one but, and in Croatia, there is always one, because what needs to be done, and one strong and significant turn in the country, has not been made. What if he fails the tourist season? Tourism anyway... The economic branch, which if we do not withdraw the planned 4 billion from the European funds, is the certainty that this does not exist taught by Minister Žalac's rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Who is it that can surely confirm that all 20 billion bonds will be able to be quality-placed, and this budget that is before us today is impossible to justify, but the reason for this budget is very simple, as I said at the outset, ahead of the elections, and these elections are clearly dictated by the budget itself. As HDZ chief, Prime Minister Plenkovic reiterated that at the beginning of 2016, lapus mandi, but could be in the SDP, the current 8% increase to the European average of 2%, which is 7 billion kuna from the Funds, for which we have an allocated 2 billion kuna. It's about increasing the separation for science. Croatia will not be able to move forward unless it sets out for science. We are in the first six countries that we separate from the GDP for the military, and we are among the last to be set aside for science and education. And what to say in the end, to conclude that this budget can be reduced to a few sentences. Instead of a balanced budget, we got a budget in which more money was allocated for the acquisition of assets, and we have no idea which and for what, more money to enquire and used expensive toys of our minister of defense, more money for health care, which is without the reform of the waste of money, because health care will spend everything you give him, and if there is no reform of the health system, primarily the hospital system that generates loss in health, we will again have a dubiosis in the health system. Once again spending more than we have, he is running away from key reforms, because apparently the chair in Brussels is better and better heated than the chair in the Banski Dvori. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106776	I thank my colleague Mrsic. We have a replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106777	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs., you mentioned some items that you said went to heaven under the clouds, you mentioned that it was growing for property, you mentioned that it was being spent on planes, not actually being spent or investing in science. And I'd like to mention another item that this government doesn't care about at all, and these are our most vulnerable members of society, these are the poorest ones, these are the recipients of the guaranteed minimum fee, because this is the year that this government actually cut that item by nearly 80 million kuna, which actually means that they don't care at all about these citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106778	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106779	Thank you very much, dear colleague Alfirev, that it is true in this budget that the government and the ruling majority swear that it is social and that it covers all those social costs that should be clearly seen from the budget that it is not true. For example, unemployment benefits are at 860 million kuna, and they were somewhere over a billion and a half, apparently that this government does not want to increase unemployment benefits and that those of our fellow citizens who gain the circumstances of losing their jobs get more unemployment benefits, this is why they will get less than they should have. And the budget is not a developmental one, not a social one, but a budget that is a commercial one and a budget that goes to satisfy the appetites of this trading coalition that is in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106780	Thank you, colleague Mrsic. Next debate, respected counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, so here we have a budget for the Republic of Croatia for 2019 I will look back on just some ministries and some segments of the budget that are absolutely improved and that are following trends that were necessary and necessary. Namely, the devasted budget of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia is the most interesting topic I would like to highlight this time and say that there is a real increase in investment in the standards and conditions of work of soldiers, officers and officers in the Croatian Army, as well as civil servants and tenants in the same Croatian army. In fact, by 0.6%, there is a trend in the GDP of the budget, and now 5 billion 75 million 302 million 937 kuna is scheduled in 2019, if also in 2020 for an additional 0.6%, and this trend needs to reach those 2% of GDP in the coming years. It clearly shows what it wants to do, as I said the devastated budget, an army that consumes unequal food, objects abandoned almost and abandoned, soldiers without morality, that is what could not defend Croatia's homeland. The planes that were returned in the trucks were all items that said national security and defence of the Republic of Croatia were significantly compromised. This budget clearly shows what objectives they want to achieve, so that is what is happening. Today everyone in the barracks eats the same food, they all have salad and soup and dessert, they all have sweatpants, they're all trained for night work, shift work, watch and everything they do, and it's not in the basic description and their tasks. The increase in funds for construction, adaptation, maintenance of existing facilities and infrastructure is also a preoccupation to be achieved. Equipped with multi-purpose combat planes, these are not toys, as some say, but are the real need to keep our sky safe, but also to rent our fleet to protect the neighbouring countries that are already negotiating, to negotiate, how they will pay the Republic of Croatia to keep their sky from being threatened. So absolutely these initiations that occur through the budget but also through indications of what will happen in future times talk about investing in what is best. I would only point out that a strong Croatian army equipped with domestic weapons, domestic uniforms, domestic helmets, helmets or domestic boots, or I got a little carried away. But all this says is that 29 Croatian companies are working, presenting the Croatian military around the world our products, our weapons, is bought from guns to rifles, to complete equipment and clearly says that this is how it becomes a country that has a military industry that is competitive in the world and thus experiences an export product that is wanted and appreciated throughout the world. We can clearly say that artillery systems, coastal coastal vessels, data centres and computer equipment helicopters, and the further integration of the anti-aircraft defence system into NATO systems, the continuation of the commitments arising from EU and NATO membership, intensive participation in non-traditional military tasks by providing assistance to civil institutions and society are all items that have been strengthened in this budget by this 0.6% increase in GDP, clearly say that the tasks will be carried out and that the Croatian military will be powerfully equipped and ready to carry out every task, particularly supported and financial resources for their salaries as well as overtime night work, guards and other things that have not been quite the case so far. My further debate, I want to look back at the budget increase in the Ministry of Defence, it's not out of a billion or hundreds of millions, but 43 million kuna is an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, I'm a sign that further care of water defenders and that the basic things that need to be reinforced are also put into this budget. So building veteran centres, helping our comrades and friends and caring for HVO members, obtaining 2 machines for further swelling of missing persons in the Homeland War, implementing measures and programs of professional training and employment of Croatian defenders as well as members of their families, rebuilding the memorial cemetery of victims from the Homeland War, development cooperation and humanitarian assistance with neighbouring BIH in the memorial documentation centre, getting a vehicle through the lising for 100% people, as is the case for each Mr. All these items that adorn and the budget of the Croatian Defence Ministry. I would also like to say clearly about what is happening in the Ministry of Agriculture, which I have already spoken about in replicas, which is that the budget plan for the period 2019/2021 speaks about how the budget is increasing, and it is particularly interesting to emphasise that it is increasing because of European, structural and investment funds and is more... million kn or in translation we can count on the European funds in 2019 to increase the amount of as much as €5.3 billion, which is more than €809 million compared to the current plan for 2018 A in 2020,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] billions of investments under the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the Operational Programme for Maritime and Fisheries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now this makes the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is also increasing and clearly speaking about how our farmer wants to improve, that he wants to be given as many projects and programmes as possible in order to be more concrete on the European market. Similarly, I would like to stress that there is also what I do not agree with in this budget, which is the construction of the fast road Farkaševac Bjelovar, in 2019 there are no budgetary means for it, they say there is not enough documentation and I will put the amendment on that fast road section because there are plenty of promises, planning and everything that followed that fast road, so the highway, so who knows what it will be called now, a semi-fast road or it will be called just the road. Because some predict construction in one tape, some in 2 strips, some in 4 strips, I'll be in the amendment, asking for 50-100 million kn in... together with her colleagues to continue the course to Bjelovar, and the documentation is provided for further Bjelovar Virovitica. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a lifeline for our space, for Virovitica Podravska County, as well as for Bjelovarska bilogorska and necessary needs to be required from other positions, similar positions, to take at least 100 million kn and put into this and speed up the work on that road, in order to at least reach Bjelovar in early 2020 to continue building from Bjelovar to Virovitica, in order to really have that area connected to the centre and financial and political power and economy in the City of Zagreb, in order to invest in our semi-empty industrial zones, which we have made for entrepreneurs to be able to obtain 1 kn square meter of land in Virovitica. However, when they say the police stop them 20 times to Virovitica, that they must spend 2.5 to 3 hours coming there, and these are some colleagues travelling and seeing, then the necessity and need of a fast road more than ever, now to make a step and that this agony of turning one into another road is provided by means of budgetary means, and therefore I hope to find common sense by the end of this debate these amendments will be invested, so I hope there will be enough strength, to find the means for that fast road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106782	I thank my esteemed colleague Djakic, we have replicas, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106783	Thank you, well-respected colleague Djakic, answer me a very simple question, which is more important to you, guns or science, whether it is more important for you to have an army or science, because in the budget of Minister Marić we stand out 1.3% and for science 0.8%. I note that the EU average is reversed, for the military 0.9% and for science 1.23%. The threat of Croatia is not such that we have to have an army that costs so much because, for example, Slovenia stands out for the military 0.7% and the Czech Republic 0.6%. Your party president and the diameter are also clear in your programme that you have brought for the elections said it will increase the issue of science to the EU level, so to more than 1.2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106784	Thank you, colleague Djakic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106785	Thank you very much, colleague Miranda. Science is important to me because I allowed the Virovitica military to turn into a high school, but I also prefer the army. And I'm aware of how safe the country is when the country is safe, then it can be invested in. When the country has its own army and has security at its borders, it's something else. I'm afraid that's not your first moment, because if you'd thought so, you wouldn't have devastated the budget in the past. They wouldn't let the army eat soup, the others eat cake, and the others have everything. Or vice versa. And he wouldn't have allowed it in the early '90s. to disarm Croatia's territorial defense to be handed over to the military.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106786	I would like to thank my colleague Djakic, next replica, dear colleague Vladimir Bilek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106787	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Djakic, I agree with most of your exposure, but still what is main and for which I have raised the replica is a fast road from Farkaševec to Bjelovar, further towards Virovitica, because in the way you have been on that road for more than 10 years now, so it will be, will be, will be, will be, will be, will be, will be, will be, will be, will be, etc. which has grown literally along the road, well, it's a good thing it's not a one-way proposal. I think it certainly needs to be a fast road because it is literally the breadth of the housewives, first of all, according to our cities, what in Bilogoria, what in Slavonia, what in Podravina, and it as such must get its full profile in order to revive the economy and be directly connected, what with Zagreb, but what beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, I say that I will also directly support the amendment, but also vote in favour of that amendment of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106788	Thank you, colleague Djakic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Bilek, I am pleased that you too have realized that without road infrastructure there is no development of our landscapes, that neither Bilogora nor Daruvar, or Grubisno Polje, or Bjelovar himself and everything else that follows, especially Virovitica, have no perspective in the future unless we have at least one speedy direction. The other one, Ilock, Kormosh, when it's built, that question will we experience if it's built at this pace and with these mountain resources. If in 2019, no one found the equivalent of 50 million kuna to continue... To Belovar, then it's sad. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am saddened that some at the office and director of the Croatian Roads have forgotten that we have discussed the same subject 100 times, both you and me and my colleague Lackovic and Mayor Bjelovar and Mayor one The mayor of the second and third... [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] which are necessary. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Djakić for his reply]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106790	The next debate, respected counterpart Lackovic, is not present. Dear colleague Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106791	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here we are today, tonight, actually, and there is no Prime Minister, and there is no Prime Minister, but I'm going to start by refering to what they said was socially sensitive, and that's what they claimed both. However, I will say that he and I claim that he is not socially sensitive and that It's all right. [[/Intruder: Excuse me, esteemed colleagues, I would ask you not to interrupt your colleague and that if you have any discussions to perform outside the Assembly. Excuse me, colleague. Go ahead, go ahead.]] So what I said and I say, this budget is not socially sensitive because it can be socially sensitive if it reduces those in the most sensitive position. This budget, what is particularly worrying, is that it reduces the right to temporary child restraint by about a million kunas. The guaranteed minimum fee for about 80 million kuna, the improvement of the protection of victims of domestic violence remained at the same level as the previous year, means it is 2 million and 150,000.00 kn, as well for NGOs, and we know that we need to implement what is bound by the Istanbul Convention. So, for NGOs, there's only a little bit of a 50 million raised to 57 million kuna. That's why I'm saying that this budget really isn't socially sensitive. What I would like to point out in particular is that according to research and the results published by Eurostat, therefore, these data show a downward trend in the danger of poverty and social exclusion in the countries of Europe. While in the Republic of Croatia 27.9% of the total population on the edge of poverty, of which over 500,000 live in severe material deprivation and cannot afford, for example. neither every other day, one meal, which may contain either meat or fish, nor can pay for the directing without delay. And what is this government doing about it? We'd say you should do something or more in social policy and in programs. However, this very social compensation means a guaranteed minimum fee, which as a compensation is best linked to reducing the risk of poverty, it reduces. And it's shrinking by 80 million kuna. And what we heard as an explanation of the Minister of Finance would be enough. What's gonna be enough? At the same time, the results or data do not show a decrease in the number of poor, however, that number is increasing. So, the only thing that's going to be concluded is that this government doesn't really want to increase that amount. For that reason, we're either wondering whether or when he's going to do what he's doing, it's that he's making promises, we'd say, like, crazy joy. In parallel with the amendment that I submitted to this budget, which is what I did last year, of course, was rejected with the exception that we have enough funds in the 2018 budget. Yeah, we've had enough for that amount, for that poor thing that's given to people the poorest, to our fellow citizens. So when we cut that item in 2018, by rebalance, it's shrinking now, I'm really asking why we haven't increased? For what? Is it an 800,00 kn base that was passed in 2014 and did not increase. Is 800 kuna enough to live? We really should all ask that question together. So at the same time as this amendment, I asked the question, the prime minister's parliamentary question, when he would increase the basis for calculating the guaranteed minimum fee because there is room for this. In order for this budget to be socially sensitive, to call it socially sensitive then you need to take care of the most sensitive of our citizens in the most sensitive social situation. They're the poorest ones, not saying they have enough resources because they don't have it. Unfortunately, here I come from the county, so I can say that the county hasn't done much about it because it's just a front for poverty. It is in Sibenik-Knin County that the highest percentage of people receiving a guaranteed minimum fee. So I'm also wondering what the mayor is doing about it and if he's going to do something, if the county that's been in HDZ for so many years is going to do anything, whether we're going to do anything, or next year we're actually going to record the growth of people who are receiving a minimum fee. So that's 4.1%. How much so far, knowing the attitude towards the public so far, I see or see that nothing is going to change so this budget doesn't go that way either. What I would still like to mention is the attitude towards women, to victims of domestic violence and to obligations, according to the obligations we have set ourselves by ratifying the Istanbul Convention, unfortunately, it is not seen in this budget either, it is not seen enough. Right on the items that should be pictures there is no increase. Therefore, there is no increase in the protection of victims of domestic violence, nor is it seen in projections, so we wonder what this relationship is and what it is doing in terms of prevention. Because prevention should be the key moment or what it should be invested in. If there is no prevention then we can really expect a further increase, unfortunately the increase in violence because there has been no reduction in this year and 2018, even from ratification. Since the moment of ratification, we've been witnesses, so we've seen these bad statistics. And what I have to say, unfortunately, and there's the Sibenik-Knin County ahead and that's what the latest data is saying, in that direction, that the Sibenik-Knin County is also the most risky in terms of women's safety when it comes to the percentage of the population. Here, that's the two things but there's more that talk exactly about how the budget isn't sufficiently and socially sensitive. So you tell me it's different but what I said, what I've just read and what's in the budget is reality, that's fact. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106792	Thank you, fellow Alfirev. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106793	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Alfirev, you have provided very precise information here, so it is argued that the situation of certain social groups that are vulnerable is getting worse and I agree with that. However, your description of the situation does not agree at all with this morning's description of the situation in Croatia by the Prime Minister, Mr Plenkovic, it seems that we do not live in the same country. Now I'm interested in one thing, you see, these unions of public service, some have managed to make a deal with the government, in my opinion, hasty and should have negotiated, asked for more, but there's still this, our citizens working in education, so they won't get as much as they asked. What can we expect from primary, middle, drop in quality, dissatisfaction? How to motivate these people, how to expect our children to be better educated when this government is holding them so badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106794	Thank you. Dear colleague Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106795	Thank you. Comrade Lovrinović, yes, it is true and beautiful you said that we may actually live in parallel worlds, perhaps we citizens actually live in one world, as we would say to the real world while our government is actually living in another, parallel where they were wearing pink glasses and then they see everything in some beautiful color. They may find everything wonderful and then they don't actually see that our educational workers, employees, so teachers who should be best rewarded and treated as they would, here's how they treat the most sensitive citizens in the Republic. What do they show? Did they know our children? Did they know about science? It's not. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106796	Thank you, colleagues. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Juričev- Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106797	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Alfirev, I'll admit that you know more about the welfare than I do. But admit that I can know more about the budget than you do. So when you talk, you're all talking about items related to the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy, you can see that the draft budget for 2019 is 5 billion and 939 million, which is almost 8% more than it was in 2018, and about 800 million more than it was in 2017. It is true that a minimum fee is guaranteed for a total amount lower than it was before. However, you've missed, and I don't know now, on purpose or skipped, that we have a new item of compensation for the threatened energy buyer, 110 million kuna, if we add that amount to this, then we'll see that our socially endangered citizens have more planned money than it was in 2018. Furthermore, care for children and youth, etc. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106798	I thank my colleague. Answer, colleague Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106799	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, yes, I think you probably know a better budget and you're economical by profession. However, you do not need to be very social, therefore, educated, to see or read the situation and position of our people well. I think it's enough to pass by, and even at night, by the neighborhood and see how many people are digging through the trash and looking for, say, plastic bottles, so we can trade it for money tomorrow. Now, these citizens are still the poorest, these citizens are getting at least this budget, and that's a fact. What I'm saying, that's what social workers say, that's what all those professional workers are saying. meet the most endangered of our fellow citizens. [[I thank my esteemed colleague.]] That's it. Data from the Center for Social Care. [[/Intruder: I thank my colleague, Alfirev.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106800	In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the Power, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106801	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. So, like in tax reform, in the budget, the winners are the ones who don't need the money, and the ones who need it, they don't have it. Tax reform has raised salaries for the rich, for those who are full of budgets, is not. Here's to the budget, let's say, if you're dealing with military, war, weapons, then you've done well, say, NATO mission 147 million, and 124, and 161, and 123 million kuna a year, money is given for UN missions, for NATO missions, for EU missions, for the care of refugees, for the defence of borders against migrants, etc. The budget has increased with Croatian defenders from 903 million to a billion 320 million, by 36%. I don't mind while the budget can handle it, let it just increase. The Department of Defense with 4 billion 800, climbing to 5 billion 700 and buying armored vehicles, weapons for 106 million kunas, a coastal ship 300 million kunas, combat planes that hopefully will be signed one fine day, here's exactly what you'll hear about these days, but maybe there's still somewhere around Easter, 350 million, 360 million, 564 million, 561 million, for what? For bins we can exhibit at the Technical Museum. Gentlemen, if this isn't okay with the planes, you'll have to answer for it once, I must tell you on behalf of the Living Wall who will soon become the second party in power, and most likely through a few years and a party that will put the government together, normally, to your horror, but that will be the case. So don't fly with those planes, this one, if you don't need to. Why do you buy all those weapons? On Earth, there are weapons to destroy planet Earth nine times, nine planets you can destroy Earth. You have 50,000 Atlantic bombs, the NATO alliance has 3900 F-16 planes and now we still have 12 to buy. Here, now there will be peace, there will be happiness, now we will be able to bomb the Serbs, Bosniaks, Kosovo Mitrovica, fear and shiver. And then, this one, members of the government, will come and wave flags with their hands on their hearts and be happy, here. And during that time, you people go down, move out, starve, you can't pay the HRT fee, drug participation, but let's, the main thing is that the planemen, this one, are in the sky, that's gonna protect us from the aliens because the RH is, as you know, in grave danger from our neighbours, this one, here we are getting ready to attack at any moment, except they have nothing to do with it. And then when they attack, as we've seen, they don't really get paid if they get their picks. All right, that doesn't matter. The government is increasing its resources, so it has 266 million, so the second year already 354, then 494 million, so that government needs money, they're increasing the fleet by 117%. The Department of Justice is raising funds from 2 billion to 4 million, for what, cars. Cars are getting more expensive, says the minister that they're cheap, but as far as we can see, it needs more and more money for those cars. The Ministry of Management of Lovre Kuščević is increasing his budget by 44.4%, which is exactly what he needs, here. The Republic of Croatia will live better than we gave Lovri Kuštević money for management. Instead of abolishing it because it is completely unnecessary and attached to the Ministry of Justice, we increase the budget by 44%, while reducing the budget for the Ministry of Health, for the Ministry of Tourism, for the Ministry of Economy, we don't give enough for pensions, we don't give for hungry children. For years, we can't raise 30 million kunas for hungry children in schools, just 30 million. So what is it with the consulting services of the Borg group? So give me at least one of those consulting contracts to cancel, give them to those hungry kids to eat, we'll give you the amendment, we hope you'll support it. In short, the way we've been so far, it's not good and it needs to be changed. To change something should be courageous, and when something changes, results need to be seen. We don't see it all, everything goes on as it is, there's no change. We continue our journey to disaster while the orchestra plays. The living wall won't support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106802	I would like to thank my colleague, Bunjac, for this final word. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the final word of the esteemed colleague Ante Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106803	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. What country do we live in? We live in a paradox where it evicts 180 people daily, cumulatively 65,000, and we see in the budget an increase in expenditure on the mass of employees' salaries of all public services. No one can explain to me logically that the number of inhabitants of Croatia is decreasing, and the number of civil servants, in particular the administration and certain ministries, is increasing, if we know that they should say so, serve the people, and the people are getting smaller and smaller. It is one logic that cannot be justified, as well as these 2700 people who have been employed since the arrival of this government and we see that there are no cuts in the state budget for 2019, and therefore there are insufficient funds for both the mountain and mountain areas, and for aided. I say that means 2/3 of Croatia. 2/3 of the most difficult Croatian area, where the least average salaries are and cannot be managed by the regional policy of Croatia through EU funds. We have to invest significantly more money to equalise Croatia's and Dalmatia's Zagora, and like, and Slavonia and Gorski Kotar, with Zagreb and urban areas. And there's really an illogicality that can't be logically justified either. I have nothing against the island, however, I think they deserve it, but we can see that the last changes gave the islands 195 million kuna, and by the development index, and the development index is the parameter that defines how and which unit of local self-government developed with 6 basic parameters, and we see that in the 8th and 7th groups of development indices, so the most developed units of local self-government are right behind it. And the most underdeveloped are from the assisted and the poor mountain-mounted area, accumulated to 110 million kuna. I've got nothing to say, if the islands are getting 195 million kuna but by this logic this would remain, 2/3 of the area should get at least 3x more. And what more could those 3x be justified by, which we suggested bridge independent lists of over 2 amendments, specifically with fellow Bull. Croatia is at the beginning of the European Union by many factors. But lately, I have been most touched by one factor, and I think it should touch every resident in Croatia, which is the number of children in kindergartens. In Croatia, about 60% of your children go to kindergartens, and do you know how many in the first next member of the European Union? In Cyprus, 74%, in Poland 80%, in neighbouring Slovenia, 89%. We have now divided 500 million kunas into local self-government units for the construction of kindergartens in this last envelope 7.4, and in the evaluation of the new envelope 7.4 new 500 million kunas. Okay, it's going to run, but as units of local self-government when they're barely done with the end, they're going to carry a little bit better and live in accordance with the last fiscal balancing law, but how according to the pedagogical standard, power's going to hire aunts, if we know that by 2020 and the Barcelona Agreement, we should have 90% of children in groups of three to six years, or 33 in a manger. When we talk about kindergartens, I'm talking about educational and educational institutions, and actually when you look at the Zagreb area, which has long reached Barcelona standards, and rural areas are far away, as we see so by parameters, we're actually talking about two criteria of rural inequality towards urban areas. I really thought, we had a call sign and I myself participated in a task force with mayors from the hill and mountainous area, but how someone can explain to me that they will develop 200,000, an area currently living in 200,000 Croats with the help of 30 million kuna. 30 million kuna? We all know that this is not a competitive area, can't be an entrepreneur of an assisted area or an entrepreneur of a hill-mounted area, it's entrepreneurs in 2/3 of Croatia, paying the same charges as entrepreneurs from Zagreb, as entrepreneurs from Split. As for that, let's not be surprised why he's moving people out, he'll move out even more, and that's why we won't be able to support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106804	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranic, for this final word. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met. We're moving on to the next one. Here's your esteemed colleague, Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106805	... Mr. Vice President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please, our citizens, we would like to follow this session, these are important conversations, about our fates, I ask you to interrupt this late hour's session, to continue tomorrow when normal working hours, when people can follow, when they're not tired, I don't understand, it's the impression that under the cover of night the ruling coalition wants to miss everything, so a lot of things are open. I'm asking you to stop this session, people don't hear anything, they go to sleep, they're tired, they have to work tomorrow, and you see how many MPs are missing. And I don't suppose you've been punished for having to lead, but your boss didn't punish you for running a session now, not today.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106806	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for that care for me, don't you worry about me. As regards the session, i.e. the agenda points, they are established. We're moving on with the work, and I'm asking you not to abuse the reporting of the future. Since this is the time, I won't give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106807	Thank you. We will now move to a statement on the amendments, on the proposal for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021 with proposals for financial plans and extra-financial users for 2019 and projection of plans for 2020 and 2021, namely Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the Croatian Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, and HZZO. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, a review of the amendments submitted on a proposal for a state budget, was submitted to you by electronic means. I would ask the proposing's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted, according to the new finance minister, the respected Zdravko Maric. First of all, 1 amendment from MP Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106808	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thus, on the general part of the proposed amendment, the government does not accept the appropriations provided for in the budget themselves are in line with the contractual obligation to pay public debt payments in 2019 and cannot be reduced. [[Intruder Reiner: This is the general part of the first.]] Otherwise, we point out that in the previous 2 years, what was seen from the execution, i.e. the State budget implementation report, both for 2016 and for 2017, the government reduced the expenditure on interest, at the level of the general government by more than 2 billion kuna, which is almost 20% of the then-existing interest on the state and budget of the general government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106809	Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106810	Dear Mr. Minister, I'm not happy with your answer, so you've denied yourself, you see, you said in 2016, in 2017 you saved on interest about 2 billion kunas, that's what you said. And then now you're saying that for 2019 it's not possible to do the same. [[Intruder: Please, we can quiet down a little, let's hear a colleague of Lovrinović.]] The experts of the Party Change Croatia in our Finance Committee have shown you, we have explained every number that it is possible and I will explain once again to the citizens how it is possible. Listen to me, please. The rate of interest in the expenditures of the state budget is projected for 10 billion kuna, which is interest on the government debt, which is therefore taken at an average interest rate of 6%. You know well that it is possible to refinance those commitments and loans at 3%, therefore 5 billion kuna is saved, you simply send a message here to us and to citizens you want to keep putting money in the pockets of foreign bankers. Why are you doing this? Instead of rerouting these 5 billion kunas to pensioners, we suggest you give them 2 billion kuna to increase pensions, workers in public services a billion and 700, to give 500 million kuna to the Ministry of Science to improve science and education, to give 300 million kuna to help young farmers and the Ministry of Demography 500 million kuna, above all to build kindergartens and maternity benefits. I repeat again, the budget is the true face of a particular government, as you show this budget, your true face as a government, what the face of this government is, it's a rough and cold face that doesn't want to help its citizens, but to put money in the pockets of bankers, and these pockets are already full.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106811	So you're asking for a vote. Thank you very much. [[I'm looking for a vote.]] Now let's go to the special part, first is the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. We have a second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106812	The proposed amendment does not accept since there is no need to plan the funds for the proposed activities, otherwise the entire section of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia is agreed and recorded in the economic and fiscal policy guidelines as the same figure is now in the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106813	Honorable representative, Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106814	Nothing is sacred to you. Nothing's trying to make a difference between the government and me, says the President of the Republic a few days ago, and now we see who, the Government. So this is a conscious obstruction of the political and foreign policy work of the President of the Republic. I'll try to explain. In football, the big growth in support of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, when it was the World Cup, and then a month later HDZ provoked Grabar Kitarovic, after the Marrakek adventure, lost a quarter of its supporters. Today's headlines are screaming this is a blow, so it is obvious that the only successful foreign policy activity of the President of the Republic is cheerleading, and everything else is caught or disgraced by HDZ or disgraced by Croatia. The Istanbul Convention in the campaign will be signed for press after the government proposes, let's not sign it. The Marrakech accord goes to the UN praises, comes home Bujanec sends a letter, we don't want the Marrakech Agreement. This affair with SMS and National Security Council advisers is the only thing that raises the ratings, the only thing that has been successfully and unanimously accepted by everyone, which is to cheer her up by refusing the amendments, but it will not work, because if it has not entered the budget she has entered Panini's album icons along with Luka Modric and, of course, I am asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106815	We will now move on to a part dedicated, please welcome the honourable representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106816	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I beg you, the situation is serious on behalf of the SDP Club break of 10 minutes on this subject. I thought by the last minute that the government would show understanding, however not. Here I am shocked and in infidelity, it's a blow, not what came out in the media today, it's a blow. Next year, so many competitions, so many world championships, pre-election campaigns, the World Handball Championships, basketball, water polo, athletics again Davis Cup, but football qualifications, if anyone cares, HDZ obviously isn't us, and we're obviously setting up the government and hitting the president. What she's going to do next year, go around all the county, the tents are gone, the dog feeds the other, Putin and Trumpu have already climbed to the top of their heads and what she's going to do. The meaning of its existence and functions will completely lose its meaning, the main friend and donor know that for objective reasons it is not in the state and we simply have to consult because this is too serious to make a case. Please take a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106817	Of course I'll grant you a break, even if I'm not sure that kind of approach is the most in political life, I'd say more opportunistic, but in any case, of course, I'm giving you a break and I'll see you at 11 o'clock exactly. It's 10.52 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.02 HOURS]] Here, our break time is up, so we'll proceed with the third amendment of the Live Wall and SNAGA Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106819	The proposed amendment does not accept the reason why the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the expert service of the National Minority Council in the proposals of their financial plans will have the means to be sufficient to carry out all activities in 2019, 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106820	The answer of the esteemed representative, John Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106821	Dear Minister Maric. I was recently in Belgrade, and I was complained there by people that the issue of household law still has not been resolved, or that many Serbs, the fugitive Serbs, were left without real estate in Croatia. Many of them are having disputes, some have even come to the European Court of Human Rights, but Croatia does not recognise the verdict. My point is that the rights of Serbs and other national minorities in Croatia are not sufficiently protected. And if you think enough money goes to their protection, then the question is, where does that money go because it's obvious that it doesn't go to those who should. Last year, I proposed that the rights of these national minorities be protected by 20 million kunas. After talking and seeing how Roma live, what happens to Serbs, I doubled those funds this year and chose the military plane item. Why military planes? Because it's clear that this deal with Israel is an extremely dubious team as much as an American firm that was supposed to do the service of those planes because of the changes that have been made refuses to do so. It is regrettable that at the moment when it is debated that national minority protection funds are being increased, members of national minorities who should represent the interests of these people here today are not present, and I fear that, as last year, by refusing to support my amendment, they will actually stab the people they represent in the back. This is a great shame for them, especially for Mr. Pupovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106822	Thank you. Amendment 4, you're asking for a vote, I presume?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106823	This is an important issue and should be voted on in order for members of the national minorities to see who is actually protecting their interests and who is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106824	Okay, thank you. The next amendment is No. 4. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106825	The proposed amendment does not accept the reason why the Office for General Affairs of the Croatian Parliament and the Government, in a proposal for its financial plans, has planned sufficient resources to settle expenditure for employees in the period from '19 to '21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106826	On behalf of the MPs' club, the esteemed representative of Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106827	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Maric, we do not understand why by tax reform you and the politicians of others, ministers, you have raised your salary on average between 1500 and 4000 kuna and those who work here with us, employees, means secretaries, chefs, waiters, security guards and maids, you have not raised a kuna to them, not a single kuna of their income. We believe that, above all, wages should be raised as some sort of symbol of people who have to work to survive, to establish some basic existence and so on, because among other things, you have increased funds for the government by an incredible 85% from 250 million to nearly 500 million kuna, to cooperate with NGOs. So why so much increase in one sector that has no such direct impact on Croatian society, on Croatian politics and the work of institutions. We believe that 20 million could be downloaded there, and that is a small amount compared to how much is allocated and so given to people you meet daily and who are not adequately rewarded for their great effort. So on the other hand, I'm asking you to raise these salaries of about 3,000, 3500 kuna to some decent level that people here earn at least 5 grand because it's kind of a minimum to maintain such a civic standard and ultimately be motivated to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106828	Thank you. Now we're moving on to the Ministry of Finance. ... Yes, the vote will be when it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We are now going to the 5th amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106829	Thank you very much. The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. Aid from the state budget planned for the previous years at division 0.25 The Ministry of Finance was established on the basis of the criteria set out in the Laws on the implementation of the state budget for each financial year. Since the provisions of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, which is applicable from 1 January 2018, are laid down in the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and projections for the '20s and '21s. the year does not provide for aid that units of local and regional or regional self-government have achieved on the basis of the criteria set out so far by the Laws on the implementation of the State budget. The right to fiscal balancing funds is realised by those units of local and regional or regional self-government whose capacity of tax revenue achieved is less than the reference value of the capacity of the tax revenues achieved. And on this occasion I will point out in the first 10 months the effects of this law are a billion and 800 million kunas more revenue to all units of local and regional, or regional self-government, so by the end of the year we expect a greater amount than that of more than 20% of the planned amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106830	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers cannot be satisfied with such an explanation, namely the city of Vukovar and Vukovar, let us remember once a year, mostly this month on the day of its death, but during the year I fear that we have very little interest in how people really live there and whether it is really an area of particular concern for the state. Last year, however, the mayor of Penava apologized because students had no co-financing of inter-urban transportation by the city due to lack of funds from the budget. Last year I and these only wanted to make it right so that the students from Vukovar who don't study at the University of Vukovar would have the opportunity to take them to Osijek most often where they study, co-financed. For that reason, I'm asking for a vote because I think we should be sensitive to Vukovar and how the Vukovars live throughout the year and not just 18 and 19. 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106832	Thank you. The sixth amendment is also the amendment of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106833	The government also does not accept the proposed amendment, the argument is identically pre-arranged, I will only point out here in the first 10 months. As for Osijek-Baranja County, it achieved 29.2 million kuna and 40.7% more than in the same period of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106834	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106835	Thank you very much. So, by representing the budget, the prime minister talked about how he is developed, socially sensitive and how he encourages employment. Well, here's what I want to encourage employment. Osijek-Baranja County is a county with the most administrative departments in the Republic of Croatia, the mayor is having a frenzy job, I guess we'll soon get an office for ore and a waste of time, so this is just my small contribution to obtain funds for the pay of all those people who are likely to do just that in the county. look for ore and waste time because if you look at the realisation of the budget of these administrative departments, you will see that they are minimal, so they range from 3 to 10%, which is usually just employees' salaries. So if we're going to pay, if that's how we're going to encourage employment, it's my suggestion that this is what the state is up to, because it's still HDZ personnel and HDZ arrests, which is why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106836	The seventh amendment is that respected representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Mark Velligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106837	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. In the State budget for 2019 other than those of 20 million kuna, the plan is in budgetary positions for damages caused by disasters, and 200 million kuna is provided for the activities of the budget stock that can be used or the funds that can be used to finance expenditure incurred in the elimination of the consequences of the natural disasters. The resources of the 5 rural development programmes for the period 2014-2020 managed by the Ministry of Agriculture 150 million kuna, which have not yet been spent and can be used to invest in the reconstruction of agricultural land and production potential affected by elemental disasters, climate opportunities and catastrophic events, up to 100% eligible costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106838	Honorable representative Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and vice president of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106839	... is always the same amount of funds for the elemental disasters, therefore, my personal colleague and I believe that this amount is too small, especially if we are looking at the northwestern part of Croatia, so Međimurska, Varazdin and Krapina-Zagorje County because after the compensation, the damage caused or the purely elemental disasters, I mean the fight or even think of certain intruders and in Dalmatia on fires, in the end, the largest number of agricultural producers get you a very low amount or small amount of funds and if we have a state and we have a flag, so we have the coat of arms, but actually if we want to develop one tolerance society, so people have to be sure, I think that the role of the state is to provide certain people with safety and therefore, if they also have to give them safety in cases of elemental disasters, we have to get the right amount. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106840	Gentlemen of the Most, please don't yell first... I see you've started to push yourself, please don't, come on, let's be calm. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106841	Vice President of the Parliament, of course I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106842	Okay, here we go to the Central State Office for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. The eighth amendment is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106843	The proposed amendment is not accepted by the government. Last year, as I recall, we had something similar on this issue, after 10 years here on April 9, 2018, with the presence of senior officials from Croatia and Hungary, the theatre opened, the Croatian theatre in Pečuh and the 14th session of the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee on Minority Protection between the Republic of Hungary, which was held in Budapest this year, the Intergovernmental Mixed Committee welcomed the contribution of both sides to the implementation of the most significant Croatian minority project in Hungary, therefore the Croatian Theatre in Pečah. Please note that the Hungarian side should provide resources for the smooth operation and maintenance of this theatre, and both sides will agree to consider the possibility of future cooperation on the roaming and co-production programmes. Otherwise, it should be said that it is precisely in the division of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia that it takes great care of members of the Croatian national minority in 12 European countries and in Hungary, and the total funding for different programmes and projects of the Croatian national minority in the European countries, or 12, after many years of stagnation, in 2017, 2018, increased by 50%, amounted to 4.5 million kuna and is also planned to increase further in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106844	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106845	Thank you very much. So the ministers would disagree with the grades, so it is certainly to welcome that the HNK in Pechu is finally open but I would disagree with the ratings that we can be satisfied with how much the Croatian side has financed. In fact, the Croatian minority in Hungary is one of the most organized minorities, and I really think we should welcome all the efforts they make to preserve their cultural identity and language in a country that is quite different at least linguistically if not culturally from ours. They kept their identity at such a level that this is the only Croatian national theatre outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. If we take into account the final financial distribution made by Rh according to this project, it will be symbolic not to say negligible, i.e. this project has been financed by individuals and the Hungarian state and certain local self-government units from Croatia. And I don't see it, nor do I see it as an adequate concern for the Republic of Croatia for its minority, anywhere in Hungary. And as for the other funds in the Central State Office system for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, they also disagree because if you look at Hungary, Croatia will allocate around 100 thousand kuna between 100 and 200 thousand kuna for annual projects of all Croatian associations in the Republic of Hungary. So it's also said from capital procedures to book presentations to the publication of magazines, etc. You will agree that this is indeed a truly symbolic amount and I thought that with this same enormous amount you would at least show good will towards our countrymen in Hungary and sometimes it is good will and attention all they need and not just money. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106846	Thank you. We will now move on to that part about the Central State Sport Office and will answer on behalf of the Government, the respected Krešimir Shami, Deputy State Secretary of the Central State Sport Office. It is the 9th amendment of MPs, respected Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106847	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that amendment because the proposed amendment would lead to the inability to implement the activities proposed to increase funds and we stress that the funds have already been increased in this position compared to the year 2018 by an amount of 4 million kuna and increased multiple compared to the previous period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106848	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106849	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Secretary of State Mrs. Kostelic, I am sorry that you did not respect this amendment, I have submitted several amendments first of all because of calls from people from the field, amendments concerning public needs in sports and amendments concerning local sports and local sports activities. We are all witnessing this year that the year has been extremely successful on the sports plan, but when the light stage is turned off, television cameras on the ground are barely living. Therefore, the proposed amendment should have been at least one small wind in the back of a number of sports clubs in order to make the membership fees more accessible to parents and to ensure from the lowest municipalities to the top of the state that young people are engaged in sports. If we take an average club that fights in a national league and needs 2 million kunas, for example, which is really a modest budget of the club then on the side of the state and local level for all younger adult categories, for their coaches, scholarships, competitions are guaranteed only 15%. So at the end of the day, sportsmen are really wondering how to survive. And as much as we all swear to sports, to the success of athletes and to talk about being the best promoters of Croatia, sport is colleagues and colleagues in Croatia to exhale. At local levels, many clubs barely end up with an end and a question of days when senior teams will have to start shutting down and then the question of how this will be an incentive for young people to play sports and we know to what extent sport should be prevention and alcoholism and other addiction diseases, as Croatia is among 35 EU countries, among the 15-year-olds in the first place after drinking alcoholic beverages. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106850	The 10th Amendment is that respected representative of Hajdukovic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106851	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that amendment for the reasons that the amount of EUR 2000 is planned in that item and will be spent exclusively on the payment of compensation to a small number of external associates while most of the project will be carried out by employees of the Central State Sport Office for which funds are provided in other paragraphs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106852	The 11th amendment is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the answer of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106853	So I can't be satisfied with this kind of response and I just don't see what the Central State Office is actually doing so good at preventing peer violence by sports at school. In fact, we are witnessing a very negative trend which is the growth of peer violence in primary secondary schools, among peers, so it is violence that is physical, sometimes psychological, so it can also be through social networks etc., etc.. Research has shown that sport is one of the forms in which it can be reduced, i.e. to stop this trend through the quality use of juvenile time but also to have an educational measure of respect for one and the other primarily through team sports but also what your colleague Jovanovic was saying, so he certainly has a share in raising for a healthy life. Since the funds that are secured are minimal I have suggested an increase of 2 million kuna. If you consider that there are about 2100 primary schools and 700 secondary schools in Croatia, this means that out of that 2 million schools each will receive 714 kuna. It's more than a symbolic amount if you ask me and every small amount I think would be a shame because it's not even symbolic anymore, but here it is, just to be an item in the budget so we can say we're doing something about it. And that's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106854	Thank you very much. The next 11th amendment is that respected representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106855	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the above-mentioned amendment for the reasons that, based on an analysis of the previous applications and the conditions of the tenders, the legally planned amount is sufficient for the realization in 2019 and all in accordance with the implementation in 2017/2018. A year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106856	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106857	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Secretary of State, then this is about your office's dissatisfaction. So for this year, you've predicted, for next year, less funds than this year. For citizens to know what this is about, it is about encouraging the acquisition of professional qualifications of top athletes. And now you've just said the number of applications is too small. Well, that's disastrous. So our goal must be to help top athletes also acquire professional qualifications for their professional careers but also to work in sports. And you say your competition hasn't had enough athletes. Well, then you have to work on promoting that contest to get as much as you can. Therefore, I do not accept this argument and believe that this amount must be increased. Besides, since I already have a chance to ask you, which is, where is the National Sport Development Strategy, where is the new Sport Act, we lost all year and no document has come out of the Central Sport Office. And what's particularly catastrophic is not one of your proposals for tax-delivery sports to improve the financial situation in sports, the government has not accepted. What's the point of your existence anyway? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106858	It's the 12th Amendment of that House of Representatives Club of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106859	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept that amendment for the reason that the budgetary user of the state budget may take the obligation under investment projects only after the professional evaluation and the estimated eligibility and effectiveness of the investment project as prescribed in Article 45 of the Budget Act. Also in the proposal of the State Budget to specific part 0,36 of the Central State Sport Office, the activity of co-financing of construction operations and the equipment of sports buildings is a new activity designed to co-finance or finance the construction of new and or equipping of construction operations on existing buildings, as well as the equipment of the same necessary equipment through a public call for local and regional self-government units, which is the new activity in the 2019 state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106860	Honorable representative Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106861	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Secretary of State, your Central Sport Office should be an improvement in sports and sports development and there is no development of sports without sport in rural areas without working with young people, without investing in sports on the ground. And the prerequisite for that must also have sports facilities. The school sports hall in Dragalić, which we have proposed to this amendment, I will remind you, you probably do not know that Dragalić is one of the municipalities that was occupied during the Homeland War is a lot of funds invested to restore the place, family houses, schools and this hall has been standing for 10 years as a promise to make these children in Dragalić. I think we should have special concerns about areas of special state concern that have been destroyed by war, devastated that these people deserve the attention of the government and your central office because they want to play sports too, and they want to have a school like it in Zagreb or somewhere around. And unfortunately, for years, this promise has not been fulfilled, so we have put this amendment into effect because the municipality has invested its own resources in the preparation of land, in the execution of a building permit, and not to fail the building permit to start construction. And this year they have to continue construction and the municipality will provide for funds to continue and we expected more hearing from the Central Sport Office to help these environments build a gym because these children would also play football and basketball there. They played basketball until yesterday, you know what? They've got a basket on the willow. Unfortunately, because of their age and willows, I can't even play basketball on that old willow. And when will he have a gym? When we give them hope to stay in the area or let them move out and grow in these areas willows and squires. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106862	Thank you. And the 13th Amendment is that club representing the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106863	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the above-mentioned amendment for the reason that the budgetary user of the state budget can make a commitment under investment projects only after the professional evaluation and assessment of the eligibility and effectiveness of the investment project has been carried out. As with the last amendment, I note that this year's budget defines a new activity called co-financing for construction and equipment of sports buildings. I would also like to point out that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has increased aid to local sport in this term to 30 million kuna from 2 million kuna, that the total budget of the Central State Sport Office has increased by 100 million kuna compared to 2016 and this year is about 300 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106864	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative, Mladen Madyer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106865	Thank you, Vice President. I am not pleased with your answer, to remind you that the beginning of the construction of the sports hall in the municipality of Kalinovac was since 2013, that the situation ended in 2015 the value of the works carried out was 7 million kuna, in which the municipality and Koprivnica-križevci County participated and in 2015 the works stopped. So it's 2018, and I think it's the worst thing when the object is built in half and it can't be used. And I'm really appealing to you because it's not likely and it won't accept and it won't pass the amendment when I vote I appeal to find the means to finish the hall because it says the worst thing is when the hall is half built and it can't be used. Note that in rural areas too, not everything can be as it is in large cities, be aware of rural environments and allow children in rural areas to be able to play sports during the winter. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106866	We will now move on to this section on the Ministry of the Interior and will be answered by Honorable Secretary of State Zarko Katic. The 14th Amendment is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the Powers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106867	2Dear Mr. President. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept amendments to the Living Wall and SNAGA Club. Namely, as the government of the Republic of Croatia is known each year, it brings a programme of activities to implement specific fire protection measures aimed at ensuring conditions for the extinguishing of open space fires, which are often on our coast of bouquets in the summer months. In this context, the Ministry of Internal Affairs under Chapter 30 is subject to the State Administration for Protection and Rescue on the Programme project, the implementation of specific fire protection measures has provided funds of 17 million kuna intended for the payment of allowances to firefighters engaged in the actions they participate in. If fires of broader scales of funds for such extraordinary actions occur, they shall be executed from that domestic stock of the state budget and the Government shall consider that at this time no such funds need to be made public in the state budget in the manner proposed by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106868	The Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106869	Thank you, Secretary of State, so your explanation is both ridiculous and sad, and according to your prime minister's statement that the fires in Dalmatia are interesting and attractive. Firefighters who put out fires in Dalmatia and save hundreds of millions of kunas of property, at the end of human lives as a summer under temperatures of between 30 and 40 degrees, work overtime practically without normal sleep and nutrition, have gross wages of about 7,000 kuna, gross wages I repeat. You and your employers, so ministers and other members of the government have at least 20,000 kunas gross, and rarely over 30,000, do you feel that you really are worth so much in relation to firefighters that your salaries must be 3, 4, 5 times higher or perhaps you depend on them more than they do on you. And I believe that these salaries should be at least half the height of politicians and government members at the time of the great fires, while they are truly on duty as they defend their own lives as well. Spend money on NATO actions, give hundreds of millions of kunas for what? What is the concrete benefit of Croatian participation in NATO actions in Afghanistan, I do not know how to send the Croatian army to the Russian border, we protect the border of Poland, and we are unable to protect our own country. I'm asking for a vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106870	Next is the 15th amendment, the respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106871	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, namely the means of training activities and equipment for the purpose of fire interventions, as provided for in Chapter 030 of the budget users in the function of protection and rescue, the Croatian Fire Community and are exclusively implemented from sources of funding under specific regulations and are strictly intended. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is of the opinion that the construction of an emergency heliodrom for emergency medical needs is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian Fire Department and for that reason does not accept the above amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106872	Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106873	It is therefore a part of the island where the number of inhabitants and the number of guests is increasing, and it is doubtless necessary to build a helipad in the area of Mirca. Recently, a woman was born in a helicopter as she was transported from the hospital just because a certain amount of time was needed to reach the nearest helipad. It is also a request for hospitals in Split and emergency services, the city has secured land and documentation, and the county has secured part of the funds. I hope that as soon as possible the Government of the Republic of Croatia in whatever budget division you wish to do so and provide funds for this purpose and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106874	The 16th amendment is the amendment of the respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106875	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment, the MUP is currently implementing a project to modernise the fire vehicle by implementing this project, which is the purchase of 94 new fire, fire and other special vehicles, the process of necessarily needed, the necessary modernisation of existing techniques and equipment worth 256,260,000 kuna. The fire trucks that are purchased from this project will be distributed to public fire departments throughout our country, therefore to all counties, in order to modernise and standardise equipment and vehicles and to increase the efficiency of the fire departments themselves. The project was implemented through the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion for the period 2014-2020, where the grants amount to 85% and 27.811,000 kuna respectively, while the remaining 15% of the amount and 38.490,000 kuna will be co-financed by the MUP during the three-year period.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106876	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106877	Thank you very much, so I can't be satisfied again, namely last year I put in the same amendment, we haven't seen any progress since it was symbolic means, although I'm glad it's going to work on getting the car further. I think this was also a symbolic act that we could do and it's not about large funds, and in order to avoid looking again at antiques of fire extinguishing equipment and access to fires throughout the Republic of Croatia during the summer. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106878	Thank you, we will now move to the department of the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, and will answer on behalf of the Government, the Honorable State Secretary Mario Antonic. The 17th Amendment is that club representing the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106879	The Honorable Chairman, respected and esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs, so Amendment 17, which proposes to increase the division of 049 of our ministry to the new activities of the Fund for Co-financing projects of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs from Slavonia amounting to 20 million kuna and is proposed to reduce the same amount to division 027 of the RS Security and Intelligence Agency. The amendment is not accepted, the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts encourages the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmen throughout the Republic of Croatia through the Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, through projects Business Competitiveness, Investment Priorities 3A, Promoting entrepreneurship in particular by facilitating the economic exploitation of new ideas and encouraging the creation of new businesses in the amount of 479.018,000 kuna and through 3D supporting the capacity of small medium-sized enterprises to grow on regional, national, international innovation processes of 484 million kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106880	Dear Representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106881	Thank you, Vice-President, dear secretary of state, you remember that on the Committee on the Economy, I have praised 490 million kunas to support craftsmanship and entrepreneurship, and it is good to take care of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but I have highlighted the problem of entrepreneurs and craftsmen from Slavonia and other undeveloped areas where they are not in the same position as the businessmen, craftsmen in developed areas that are closer to the market in Zagreb, Varazdin, Rijeka, other developed areas, and they cannot be in the same position to compete with these developed areas, they do not have the same capacity and should be strengthened, in order to strengthen them, they must have some special fund for crafts from these areas. Especially for our craftsmen from Slavonia. You are witnessing that a large number of crafts are closed because they simply are not able to monitor these trends, they do not have their own and sufficient capacity, neither financial, nor human capacity to prepare the project, to run it and then have the same chance as the entrepreneur or craftsman from Zagreb. He can't play football just as well who's got new diggers and he who plays barefoot. This is why we propose to establish this Fund, something similar has been done by the Ministry of Agriculture, where it co-finances projects from Slavonia. Why not the Ministry of Economy? I have repeatedly pointed out that it is wrong that the same number of points for projects are obtained by entrepreneurs and craftsmen from Zagreb and the one from Ilock, Županja or Gunja. It is simply not an equal match and we cannot strengthen the development of crafts and entrepreneurship in Slavonia unless we have a special Fund to support them. And that's why I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106882	Thank you very much. Before we continue to welcome all together students and students of the ERASMUS Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb who are at our gallery... The 18th Amendment is that club representing the Bridge of Independent Lists, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106883	Amendment number 18 proposes an increase for the division of 0.51 Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, a new activity to encourage micro and macro-entrepreneurship worth 250 million kuna. It proposes a reduction in the same amount in the divisions of 02005 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for 200 million kuna, 02506 of the Ministry of Finance, 2114 Support to political parties amounting to 30 million kuna and 07620 to the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation, Activities K260345 to purchase certain properties for the Republic of Croatia's 20 million kuna account. The amendment is not accepted. For those activities, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in 2019 shall continue to be financed by the European Structural Investment Funds, by the Law establishing and deliriousness of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration, which entered into force on 16 October 2016, resulting in status changes in the budgetary users of the state budget. The amendments and additions to the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2016 for the division 051 of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship have been shut down and the funds are being taken over by division 049 of the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts. The Government of the Republic of Croatia's budget is necessary to carry out regular activities. Art. 3 The Law on the financing of political activities, electoral promotions shall be determined by means for the regular annual financing of political parties and independent representatives to be provided in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of 0,075% of the tax revenue obtained from the annual reports previously carried out on the implementation of the budget. Therefore, the amount planned in the State budget for 2019 at the positions of the Ministry of Finance for Political Parties is in line with the obligation laid down in the Law on the financing of political activity and election promotion. Also the most recent funds of the Agency for Legal Transport and Real Estate Intermediation [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106884	Dear Representative Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106885	Thank you very much for this explanation. It's exhausting in the part where you say you can't. What actually our entrepreneurs are primarily interested in is how something can be solved. The same question was asked and Minister Dalic, who is here, is no longer in office for known reasons, but she said, yes, I will return it, it will not be permanent, but we will return, we expected to the budget now that we will see, but it seems that promise, as the minister left, so went the promise. But this question, where it comes from, so here when it appears now it takes 150 million kunas to raise wages, somewhere it was found, when it took 250 million kunas for books, it would be located somewhere, and it couldn't be found for an e-impulse program that was really supportive to a number of entrepreneurs, it's simply hard to accept, because our entrepreneurs, they're not going to deal with the budget, looking for items from which they can be downloaded, where less needed, but they expect the Ministry to have a solution and to return the funds they had and to provide permanent support to entrepreneurship. And then when we're judged the way we encourage these entrepreneurs, we help through various measures, then on those lists, of course we're falling. Because we, more importantly, finance for the parties, are more important to us financing government costs, it's more important to us, I don't know, buying certain properties, it's all just cost, cost, cost, they understand only investment, give us the means to make our investments easier to create new jobs, to create added value, to ultimately raise RH ratings. Industrial production is dropping, and that's unquestionable. In this way, if we do not provide quick, quality resources, not all EU funds will help us because we are not willing to sacrifice a single Croatian kuna to help any Croatian entrepreneur. We're looking for a vote here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106886	The next part is related to the Ministry of Culture, and in the name of the Government will be answered by the respected Secretary of State Kresimir Partl. The 19th Amendment is one of the respected representatives of Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106887	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on Public Needs, calls for funding of the programme in culture. Reported programmes are considering... Councils for certain activities in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the programme is registered as such in the competition of the Ministry of Culture, it will be discussed and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106888	I suppose the respected representative Hajdukovic will say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106889	You're a good guess, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, about this pearl with... Art in Slavonia, I think it's too high to talk. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the Chakovec cathedral of St. Petra, which was built between 1866 and '82. Sir doesn't stop being surprised from the very beginning of construction, so I'd dare say so today. It spent 7 million volumes from the brick Đakova diocese, and the stone was delivered from different European countries. The draft for the cathedral was commissioned by Bishop Strosmayer in Vienna, who is very well known by architect Karl Wesber. The existence of this kind of... in Giakov, in the very heart of Slavonia, is indeed a miracle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is the fruit of Strossmayer's uncompromising vision, in which he did not satisfy the average, but sought the best from the art and construction of his time. This is an example, which would dare to say, that we should follow today. The cathedral is richly decorated with numerous works of art, famous painters and sculptors of that time, such as Ljudevit and Alexander Maximilian Stajc, Johan Fredrik Overbech, Vatroslav Donegani and others. Such an important temple facility, we believe it deserves appropriate lighting, and this project can actually be inter-resorial, because it also works in a way to develop tourism. For all the above, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106890	The 20th amendment is the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106891	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture shall, in accordance with the Law on Public Needs in Culture, issue a public call, declared council programmes, in accordance with the activities in which they have been reported, if the programme of reconstruction, buildings of public purposes and applied to the competition of the Ministry of Culture is considered and an appropriate decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106892	I think the respected representative Boris Miletic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106893	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I am not satisfied with the explanation, it is an exceptional cultural project in the Municipality of Gračisje on the location of Kasća, for the reason that the municipality is simply financially weak, that this project is not able to realise. And it is primarily important for the safety of the citizens of Gračis, regardless of the fact that this facility is in a fragrant and ruinous state. So, what is the idea of the municipality itself and the requirement of the locals is that by reconstructing the existing building of Kasce, it is being converted into a building of social and public purpose with the aim of precisely developing social and cultural activities in the area of the municipality itself. All together, we know that certain amendments to the law are penalizing small municipalities, which simply no longer have independent funds where they could maintain such buildings, and since it is an investment for cultural activities, we felt that the Ministry of Culture should recognise such a need. So I'm going to ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106894	The 21st Amendment is that Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106895	The amendment is not accepted. Archaeological research in Solin since '19. St.translated to the National Museum Institution. The Archaeological Museum in Split and the Museum of Croatian Archaeological Monuments in Split, both institutions are funded from the budget, the archaeological museum in Split has its own facility directly at the location of the salon, where archaeologists who conduct research and process archaeological buildings are employed. In addition to those institutions, the competent conservation department also has archaeologists, who carry out conservation supervision of research, the state of the site and all projects. Given the professional coverage of the archaeological area, we do not consider it necessary to establish another archaeological institution, which would deal with archaeological research.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106896	Dear Representative Miro Bulj on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106897	Thank you very much. The town of Solin is of special historical importance with rich archaeological heritage from ancient Croatian heritage. The establishment of a single site centre is the possibility of systematic archaeological research of numerous sites, where experts and universities would participate. In this way, research would allow students to grow, which would receive the necessary practice on the ground, and science would gain new knowledge. In addition, work would be easier for local self-government units, as the centre with this research and work would allow for pre-production, elaborates, studies, etc. for potential investments and potential economic activities. The aim of all institutions was to network the local or national units, local self-government, to benefit society, economy and science. In addition, Solin is a space, which in terms of heritage exceeds local importance, and unfortunately, not enough... and at national and international level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that Solin, as an old Croatian town, as a cradle of Croatians, as one of the most important sites, must have greater importance, not that these sites are a waste disposal can, but that they are committed and that they invest in cultural scientists, intersections and that, in this area, those localities are protected, not that everything remains on local self-government, which clearly does not care, and there is not enough financial capacity. So I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106898	And the 22nd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Bridge, independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106899	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs, reports a public call,... programs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the programme of the recovery of Diocletian basements is declared to be a competition, it will be considered and the appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106900	Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106901	Here, too, as I said, the importance of Diocletian's basements has gone beyond Croatia and the international level. I believe that this amendment, in fact, makes a significant contribution and we're targeting the site of Diocletian's basements that aren't protected enough, not sufficiently culturally investigated, and in this way Diocletian's basements would be on the world heritage list. which would also have the opportunity for our experts, scientists in culture to investigate it, and in particular students, it is a very important object that we must explore and protect and secure the means to investigate and not that, in fact, Diocletian's basements are scientific and certainly different in the basement, simply Diocletian's basements must be protected, investigated, and therefore we need to ensure, this amendment is the only way by this amendment to solve this problem. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106902	The twenty-third amendment is also the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106903	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on the financing of public needs in culture, in accordance with the Law on Cultural Councils, if the programme of recovery of the roof of the town stadium of Po human is declared to be a competition, it will be considered and will make the appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106904	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106905	Thank you very much. Croatian football has one symbol, it's human lipotica, it's NK Hajduk Stadium. It's a sad thing that stadium's been since '79. i.e. For as many as 40 years, it has not been invested by the Kuna state in it or cared about the state, and obviously enough is coming down to the Split government and making promises. If the roof of human beauty, Po man, is not settled, there is an opportunity for major disasters, for that roof to collapse and for the human lipotic to become a tragedy of Croatian sport. Hajduk lives forever and Hajduk deserves a minimum and the city of Split and Dalmatia to resuscitate this country after 60 years of human lipoticism. It's a minimum. You have no excuse. If the mayor of Split, besides painting selfies and mayors, does not have the strength to say it, I say in front of the MOST club that Split and Human Beauty and the fans of Hajduk and Torcid, minimally what they deserve to invest in the Po man and the restoration of the people. First of all, because of what is threatened by fans who are in the stadium of the Humans, who is full when Hajduk is either the first or the last. Hajduk is alive, Hajduk is also a national symbol because of Hajduk. I'm telling you seriously, it's a minimum of what you're dying, mostly you who come from Dalmatia and all of you from all over the Republic, secure this money and protect the human lipotic beneath Marjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106906	Thank you. I'm guessing you're looking for a vote. After such a fierce speech? [[Intruder Bull: Looking for a vote.]] The next twenty-fourth amendment is also the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106907	The amendment is not accepted. In accordance with the Law on Public Needs, if the programme of the Sea Museum is registered in Split, it will be considered and an appropriate decision will be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106908	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106909	Here's the museum's activity is very important. The museum activity in Split is also forgotten in Dalmatia, again I repeat that the cradle and Croatia are from Croatia and also ancients in this area. I'm asking that we get more serious about protecting ourselves, studying this area. I would ask you to strengthen the city's cultural offer, suggest moving exhibits from... the museum and the opening of the museum of the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Namely, only part of a valuable collection of more than 5881 shell, snails and recognized international values is shown in the present space. I suggest that the museum be opened in the building of Dalmatia which has become the property of the state and that it has the status of a protected monument. And not to be the municipal problem of the city of Split because it is located on the maritime good, in the center of the city, and I think this would be a solution to protect our cultural goods. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106910	We will now move on to this department of the Ministry of Agriculture and, on behalf of the Government, the respected State Secretary, Marija Vukkovic, will be declared. First of all, Amendment Twenty-Five, House of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106911	The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture has taken into account the new legislative framework governing the system of state aid, the process of drawing up strategic documents, and the reform of the common agricultural policy under way. The new Agricultural Act, which provides for the implementation of State aid on 1 January 2019, is governed by the framework for the implementation of State aid and it is established that State aid schemes are financed by the State budget of the Republic of Croatia under established financial envelopes. The State budget therefore provides for activity in the budgetary position, state and de minimis support programmes and co-financing of the infrastructure for the development of agriculture within the framework of the projected funds for new State aid programmes planned in 2019, and therefore no specific measures are needed in the pig farming sector for the time being. In addition, as the national development strategy is also a strategy for the development of agriculture, a result that will be a single agricultural strategy for 2020 cannot be planned at this time for 2020 and 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106912	Honorable representative Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106913	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, yes, it is true that we do not yet have a strategy to develop agriculture, we do not have defined what these strategic developments are, we do not have defined or sensitive sectors. And from HSS, I personally believe that pork is also one of the sensitive sectors in agricultural production, and we supported in the budget the proposal to provide 65 million kuna to support bovine animals, 5 million kunas for sheep and goats, 3 million kuna for the cow system, the calf, and we do not understand why pig farming remained aside. Especially when we know that this is a very sensitive sector, that it is devastated in Croatia, that since Croatia's entry into the EU, our pigmaking has disappeared, that over 70% of pork is imported into the Republic of Croatia, and we have tradition and experience in pig farming, the load of pigs and we are recognized by our dried products, not only in Croatia but also outside Croatia. There's also African swine fever at our door. And very real is the danger that already happens. In the year it also appears in Croatia, and you have not secured a single kuna in the budget for support in pig farming. The big problem is also farming, i.e. the breeding feedingstuffs our reproductive material, because most of the pigs are imported and we are practically, allowing for the development of agriculture, the Netherlands and Germany, instead of helping to develop our family farms and what we have capacities in Slavonia and beyond, because there are a number of empty objects that could be happening. You've seen that there's a lot of resistance in your club, at the HZD Club, which is left out. We wanted to help you with this amendment to give pigs a chance to stay on the market and give our family farms and our consumers pork from Slavonia from Croatia. Unfortunately by refusing the amendment, it won't be possible. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106914	Thank you. The next 26 is the 26th Amendment of the Independent Lists' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106915	The amendment is not accepted. Projects in the area of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema are funded under a development agreement that provides for the financing of 29 projects, the Ministry of Agriculture from the state budget is financing 4 such projects. They are worth 105 million kn, they are scheduled to be paid in 3 years and the dynamics are consistent with the contractual users, and therefore, on the basis of such harmonised dynamics and signed contracts, the draft budget items for 2019-2021 have been drawn up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106916	Dear Representative Panenic on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106917	Respected secretary of state, but when someone looks at the budget, you've secured, £ 105 million, out of those 4 projects, that's two counties. So only two counties that got 2 projects each, those other counties, have nothing to expect. When you see there's no extra funding, that's it. We'll... 105 million kn, talking for the next seven years and saying, "Here, we've made some distance, we've signed some agreement I'm talking about continuity." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If in 1 year it was from the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, 60 million kn, given the needs of every £60 million, the least need that is there, because this year we're going to have a 10th, a year we're going to be 30 and that's it. So in 2019, we have 10 million kn, 10 million kn which the Ministry of Agriculture will forward to Vukovar Srijem County and Virovitski podravska, 10 million. When we divide only into the number of agricultural producers, almost nobody got anything, and these projects, they're construction projects, they're going to be built first, and then they're going to set up a series of similar people there, that's going to try something like organize and eventually what's going to be the result? We'll be out of time. And people have no more patience, no more agricultural producers. Where's he going? When their agricultural production stopped, what did we open for them? What alternative? Will he become part of the public service? It's the only thing he's got, everything else has already been quieted down. And the fewer people, the less the need, the less the demand to find them, they find an alternative in some other countries and, of course, they're bitter. And we have to be bitter here when we present a budget like this that lists 10 million kn, bay, bay Slavonia. That's all we predicted for you and be happy, we'll talk about 105 million, 105 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106918	Thank you. The 27th Amendment is that respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106919	The amendment is not accepted. In the proposal for a budget plan for 2019 with projections for 2020 and 2021, the Ministry of Agriculture planned a budgetary activity to implement emergency fitness sanitary measures, amounting to 4 million 540 thousand 605 kn. These funds, in accordance with the Law on Plant Protection, are intended for the implementation of activities, the prevention of entry, the control of harmful organisms, and especially those of quarantine importance, with emphasis on the red tape of a dangerous disease spreading epidemicly to Croatian vineyards, is the golden jaundice of the vine. The activities of enhanced supervision, plants and wine products will also continue, both at the borders and in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106920	Dear Representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106921	There is no doubt that we support this activity as far as the vines are concerned, but my amendment went to a new activity concerning protection against palm pipe. Namely, our coastal area was destroyed by the debtor of the palm pipe, which caused great damage and destroyed the great no. Palm trees, in the coastal area. According to our knowledge, current preparations have no solution for use in 2019. private palaces, then, those palm trees that people have in their gardens. According to our knowledge, the last action plan to contain and prevent the red palm of the pipe from September 2013 and the last plan that exists in the physical form of 2015. I will remain on the subject of this amendment being voted on, since you have clearly stated in your explanation the wine line because you did not read the amendment well, and this is not about that Bandic palm and Svetozareva, but really about the palm trees that were beautiful to our coast and that were sung in that song, while palm trees swayed the branches. So in order for palm trees to continue to swing branches, I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106922	Before we move on to the next amendment, welcome students and students of the Faculty of Political Sciences of the University of Zagreb, who are at the gallery. .../Applause. Let's hope it benefits from staying here between us. We will now move to the 28th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106923	The amendment is not accepted. The proposal for a budget plan of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2019 with projections for 2020 and 2021 for the organisation of the event provides funding under the positions of administration and management, depending on the type of future beneficiary in the context of current donations amounting to 36,000 kuna in the context of transfers between budgetary users of the same budget, also 361 thousand 250 kuna, in the context of expenditure on the service of 400 thousand kuna and assistance within the budget of 350 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106924	Dear Representative Panenic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106925	Thank you very much. Here's me, it was hard to follow when you've listed it somewhere, probably when someone's throwing a event, then you should go to Niko and Miri and Sonja, so everyone's gonna give you something. What users really expect, those who want to organize, we're talking about rural development where there's going on some of the events that you're taking from the community or the city, you're going to ask the ministry a little bit of your own resources. Now imagine coming to the ministry, they tell you there's everything there but no public call. I want as an organizer of the event or some economic event that I know there will be a public call. On that public call I send an explanation as it has been all these years and in the end your government was significantly increasing the funds in 2017 because so, there were some 5 million kunas, so you recognized you need this. And now all of a sudden you don't need it anymore. Now it's enough that you're good with a minister or someone who's tall enough so he'll say come on, I'll give you a couple hundred grand. No public call, so no more decision criteria, so negative for Zoran Milanovic's government, in the end they had it. And the government had it behind it. And now all of a sudden, there's no need for this. And I'm telling you in the field there's a lot of need, but believe me, these users, they should all come by the Ministry of Agriculture to tell the delegations, so they're looking for the one with which the assistant secretary of state, secretary or minister will find an appointment so they can explain how they need 5,000 kuna. And before that there was a public call being published, somewhere it was in February, right? Whoever organized it before also sends it. Everyone was getting that little money that meant so much that it was being held in the rural area, you killed a series of manifestations this way. I'm asking for a vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106926	Thank you. We will now have a section of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds and on behalf of the government will speak to the respected Minister Zdravko Maric. So we're going to the 29th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106927	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The government does not accept the proposed amendment, in a few minutes, the government will express its position on financing mountain-mounted areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106928	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106929	Thank you very much. The Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas since 2002 has changed and complemented more than 7 times in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. 45 units of local self-government in hill and mountain areas, which are cities and municipalities with status in the Primorje-Gorski County, Split-Dalmatia, Krapina-Zagorska, Istria, Lika-Senjska, etc. It's two-thirds, a large part of the Republic of Croatia, a large area where 200 thousand people live, we know what a demographic decline is, and we propose an amendment that is minimal, are ridiculous amounts that are on the budget. We're looking for an amendment of 50 million to increase, because what we have is 50 million. Because what we have, and I know what you're up to, to turn out, I've been looking for this since I've been here in Parliament, I know what it's going to be, you're going to minimally increase in the next amendment just to increase and clear so that the story fits some of the coalition crossings I support it. However, I believe that the minimum we can give for these areas is 50 million kuna from this budget because we will lose the ends and Lika-Sen County, our like, the mountain Kotar, the Dalmatian Zagorje, Slavonia, Zagorje will lose. I know you've prepared an amendment here that's already been that amount in the budget, but you've cut it down just to accept someone else, but it's not an increase, it's just a niveling of coalition partners and your parliamentary deputies. We're looking for a real increase in resources for the survival of mountain-mounted areas where 200,000 people live. It can't shrink and now it's back to the same way that you're talking about doing something. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106930	The 30th Amendment is that club representing the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106931	The proposed amendment does not accept the necessary means for the realization and technological innovation incubator Brodi Stupnik are foreseen under the budgetary position of the operational programme of competitiveness and cohesion... It's a big city mechanism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106932	Honorable representative Davor Vlaovic on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106933	Thank you, Vice President. I'm not happy with the answer. Yes, this is not some imaginary project, but it is a project that is well designed by the Municipality of Brod Stupnik LAG area of Posavina, Brod-Posavina County and which has passed through the project of the development of urban areas of Slavonski Broda means that it is well prepared but is provided only 27 million kuna. It would take about 32 million kuna to finalize the project. That is why we have sought another 5 million kuna through this amendment and thus ensured that these projects are realised. Because this is not about one municipality of one manufacturer, this is the LAG area covered by 7 municipalities, Nova Kapela, Oriovac, Brod Stupnik, Bebrin, Sibinj and Podkkallje and the municipality of Caglin from Požeško Slavonska County, meaning two counties. At the stage of the establishment of a producer organisation means a project designed to help family farmers and craftsmen from this area to have a quality space where they could store their products, where they could pack their products, where they could reprocess their products, where they could then place those products on the market at the time when the most favourable price for them is and certainly so that they could receive quality information through the project for further development of their family holdings. And so we appeal that if this amendment is not accepted, there is a way to help this project enter the Slavonia project because it certainly deserves one such attention because it includes one wide area and a large number of producers, giving young people a chance to stay there to deal with vegetables, fruit growing, honey production, and not to move out, because we've done a lot of helping major concerts, we see how privatisation has gone, people have lost their jobs without capital, and here we help private projects of small family farms. and give them a chance to develop and survive in Slavonia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106934	Since this is a ship's area we welcome to the gallery of students and students of the Slavonski Brod craft school. And the 31st Amendment is that representative of Sinisha Heidash Doncic and Mark Weighigai. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106935	The proposed amendment does not accept the necessary funds for the development of assisted areas related to small capital projects not only in this item the development of assisted areas, but also in the significant part and other positions of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, as well as the positions of other ministries, however, the high home will also see the amendment submitted by the Government on Monday, which relates precisely to the development of assisted areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106936	I'm guessing he'll be speaking to the esteemed Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106937	I thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here is the greeting and the Minister of Finance, who has today been tasked with defending the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds, and I am sorry that we do not have any representatives of them, but okay. This way in the government's programme, it says it will work to reduce regional inequalities and to invest funds in those areas lagging behind the national average. And now what we have through this budget, we have, let's say, islands that we've secured 112 million kunas, islands that live on slightly more than 100,000 inhabitants, and we have assisted areas that according to the new indexation found so 264 units of local self-government entered them, which is 47% of the total units of local self-government at the level of the Republic of Croatia live in them, so almost a million people, so 23% of the population, and now we've secured for those 23% in Croatia, in Bania, in Dalmatia, in Slavonia, in Lika, we've secured about 80 kuna per capita. Don't take ministers out on financial balances because the good part of these 264 local units dominate municipalities that unfortunately did not have too much benefit from this fiscal balance. But what's good to know is what local, local self-government units are involved in, and let's say, the Hill and Mountain Areas Act, we still don't have any coverage of these local units, nor do we know how many inhabitants will be covered, nor what area it's about. I consider this amount definitely inappropriate at least we are not like me and my colleague Hajdaš Doncic, we have not suggested any megalomaniacs, but we have proposed a realistic amount which I believe can be succumbed to to send yet one message for assisted areas because it simply needs a strong and strong government support for its development, to revive life in these areas. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106938	Thank you, the 32nd Amendment is the representative of Maria Puh, Ivan Šipič and Žarko Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for this amendment I need to take a deep breath. The proposed amendment is accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106940	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 33rd Amendment is the representative of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Mark Weighigaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106941	The proposed amendment is not accepted, it has just been mentioned, the amendment 32, which says that then the mountain and mountain areas will be the next total amount of the funds of 40 million kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106942	Honorable High Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106943	Well, here's the first thing I have to say is that I'm glad that this amendment was accepted, at least in part, since me and my colleague Hajdas Doncic had it filed before a colleague from Party Milan Bandic and HDZ who submitted it and we submitted a much larger amount, and that's more than, so the amount that increases this budget item by 50 million they submitted by 10 million. What I have to express once again is that we have a number for mountainous and mountainous areas, but we don't even know the number of inhabitants, we don't even know the area, we don't have any concrete measures, unfortunately, the law hasn't yet come into force, unlike here, the Island Law, and we're actually sending one of these means even by increasing one bad message to people living in these areas, we're sending them a message, move out, move out from these areas, from these areas. Because what will happen with the new law, the new law provides for some 85 units of local self-government that should enter the mountainous and mountainous areas, I believe that at least here is the ruling majority, or HDZ of the Krapina-Zagorje County, to fulfill their promise to mark the anniversary of the HDZ in Zagorje on 28.3. when they pointed out that the entire Krapina-Zagorje County should be a mountainous area. It will hardly be so, there will probably be several local units, and a number of settlements located in mountainous and mountainous areas will remain outside of this coverage, and that will actually create one injustice among people, thus creating an injustice among local self-government units, because some will receive funds for municipal infrastructure, some will benefit from these certain tax reliefs, some may move into those local units, and others unfortunately will not. Instead of having concrete measures, not just for the construction of municipal infrastructure, let's say to encourage the construction of broadband Internet in those areas that I consider to be one of the basic preconditions for living there to remain and to develop, kindergarten subsidies, subsidies for schools bigger, we unfortunately do not have to do that. We don't have here, and with this amount that's [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Definitely too small or we can't.../incomprehensible/... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106944	The 34th amendment is Agent Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106945	The government does not accept the proposed amendment, the same argument as the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106946	I don't see a representative, so we're gonna have to vote on it. The 35th is the same as the amendment of MP Ante Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106947	The government also does not accept, with the same argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106948	There is no representative, so we shall vote on him. The 36th Amendment is representative of Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106949	The government doesn't accept the amendment, with the same argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106950	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106951	I really don't understand how the government thinks with these 10 million kunas that it has accepted and has increased its coverage of local self-government from 45 to 75 take a deep breath, deep breath that someone thinks 40 million kunas per year keep the population, restore displaced people, encourage settlement in the mountainous and mountainous areas of Croatia. We're lying in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia. While Gorski Kotar, Dalmatinska Zagora, Lika, and Zagorje are empty again, we lie to 200 thousand people who live much harder than people in urban areas. I don't really know what should happen anymore in Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagorje, Lika or Zagorje that the Croatian Government in Zagreb finally understands how to live in the mountainous and mountainous areas of the Republic of Croatia. How many more schools should be emptied, how many jobs should be closed due to the lack of competitiveness of the mountain-mounted area in the form of difficult working conditions. How much more snow does it take to fall on an unclassified road so someone can figure out how much someone realizes how much the cost is maintained. What is the price of water for drinking, should be collected and more expensive than the average of the Republic of Croatia, vertically dismembered terrain, average low population in mountain-mounted areas of Croatia. How much does it all cost? All this affects significantly higher monthly life-savings of average families in mountain-mounted areas or business costs of entrepreneurs. This amendment of mine is to encourage entrepreneurs in mountainous and mountainous areas, 22 million kuna, and you refuse to do so. Drink that glass of water and take a deep breath from this urban city of Zagreb because you are the culprits for forgetting the Dalmatian Zagora, which Gorski Kotar, Lika and that entrepreneurs are not competitive and that we don't have jobs in those areas. [[Thank you, thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106952	Now we move to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. In the name of the Government, the Honorable State Secretary, Nikolina Brnjak, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106953	The amendment is not accepted, it is a multi-year equipment programme The amendment is not accepted, so it is a multi-year programme to equip high-school maritime universities with mandatory equipment and maintenance of school ships where the universities, besides the equipment they receive, must invest their own resources in editing the space for the reception of specialized equipment. [[Intruder Reiner... first amendment, just to say, the first amendment is that respected representative of Željko Jovanovic]] In line with the above, the amendment to increase the funds to the A754057 activity is not accepted because it would require an additional increase in funding at the level of the counties that are founders of secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106954	Dear Representative Jovanovic will be shown about Amendment 37.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106955	Thank you very much. I think that Croatia is recognised worldwide for the quality of personnel coming out of Maritime Schools and Naval Colleges, certainly in this great role of play and professional practice that can be implemented on ships, which are owned by schools, or higher schools, so I am sorry that you have not accepted this amendment and I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106956	38. The amendment is that club of MPs IDS, PGS and RI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106957	The amendment is not accepted. The economic zone Barban has an existing road and is connected on the 5001 county road, on the 5077 county road, and on the 66 state road through two short sections of the local road, the length of the road is 500 meters. These county roads are crossed in the area of the economic zone and the Istrian County Roads Administration has produced a classic four-point crossover, a possible change or upgrade of such a cross-section to the rotor, it is also in the jurisdiction of the county road administration. Since the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is not a source of financing for the county and local roads, there is currently no possibility of meeting that requirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106958	The answer will be by a respected representative, Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106959	So I'm not satisfied with the explanation, because this is a very, very important crossing and the necessity of building that rotor has two functions. One must be the economic zone you listed yourself. However, in this way it would significantly relieve traffic at the very centre of the city of Barban, where unfortunately the existing transport infrastructure is insufficient. On the other hand, the said road is being transported entirely by the entire truck transport heading towards the port of Bršica, which is also a port of national importance. This would increase the safety of transport both for the economy and for the public, in addition to the decommissioning of traffic within the municipality or in Barban. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106960	39. The amendment is that of the House of Representatives Club of the HSS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106961	The amendment is not accepted. The County Road Administration of Brod-Posavina County is an out-of- budget user of the County of Brod-Posavina responsible for the management of county and local roads. Given that in the budget of the Ministry of the Sea, infrastructure transport is not planned to build county and local roads, there is currently no possibility of meeting that requirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106962	Dear Representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106963	Thank you, Vice-President, distinguished secretary of state precisely because the county road administration does not have enough resources to build or reconstruct all the requirements of municipalities and cities for construction and reconstruction of roads we have and run towards the State budget this road Slavonski Kobaš-Bebrin towards Slavonski Brod. So these are not two small settlements that would allow citizens of the two municipalities of Oriovac and Bebrina faster access to the county centre to Slavonski Brod and thus enable the development of this region. So, you allow Lužani nodes from the highway exit to have an alternative direction towards the town of Slavonski Brod, we allow this road to craftsmen, entrepreneurs, family farms can deliver their products to the town of Slavonski Brod. This road is started construction, the project is finished, the macadamic part is arranged, and if construction is not continued there will be further devastation and more funds will need to be re-invested. Since the county road administrations do not have enough resources, we also had a proposal to increase funding for all the county road administrations, which is also not accepted, we do not see how this road will be built if this country and the Resort Ministry do not jump in. On behalf of all citizens living in this area, we ask that you consider and find models along with the County and County Road Administration (ZUC), to make this road, especially when you know that people are moving out of these areas and moving out because they are inaccessible and health care, and you know how important it is for a patient in that golden hour to get to the hospital. This road would cut the road 30km to Slavonski Kobaš's residents to Slavonski Brod. In this way, it would certainly help people to stay in this area and increase the quality of life in this area. So we're asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106964	The 40th Amendment is that of Maria Alfirev and Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106965	The amendment is not accepted. The Croatian Road Company planned for 2019, 2021. has the means to reconstruct the crossing of the state road D8, Ulica Škorpika in Sibenik, Mandalina-Tvor-Tvor-Ražine node.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106966	Dear Representative Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106967	Thank you, Vice President. If I understand you correctly, you have the means, or you don't. In any case, this amendment goes after the team to solve this big problem of Ražina knots, which is currently solved as a traffic crossing, which all those living down in Sibenik or coming as tourists, know that throughout the year is a narrow throat on that part of the road, highway D8, Adriatic highway. Especially during the summer season, precisely because of this traffic-semaforized cross-sections are created kilometre columns from all directions, so the adequate resolution of this knot in a way to make Rotor is actually imposed as only or as burning for realization. Unfortunately, in Sibenik, we have a situation where HDZ Mayor is irresponsibly spending money on building an underground garage in the middle of town when huge money is being thrown, and especially in the time when all the big cities, especially the tourist cities, are moving all their garages or parking spaces out of town, and we are not looking for a key issue like this regarding one solution, more adequate traffic resolution of entry into the city and exiting the city itself, so we are looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106968	The 41st Amendment is representing Maria Alfirev and Frank Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106969	The amendment is not accepted. This project is not included in the 2019 road construction and maintenance plan. When setting building priorities for the next period of professional service, it will consider a proposal to include that proposal in the next road construction and maintenance plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106970	Dear Representative Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106971	And here you said you weren't included. A colleague, Franco Vidovic, also last year, is all these amendments that I'm explaining today, and you've also given an answer, not included, here. So we're going to ask for another vote, but here's a brief explanation. As for the Dubrovnik transport node, the Sibenik knot, it should be said that Sibenik is the only city in Dalmatia that does not have a four-way access from the highway to the city. Already during the summer months on the D33 road node Dubrava, Sibenik knots are being created. Given the remarkable tourism growth of recent years, fortunately, especially at the proximity of the Krka National Park, which is visited annually by over a million visitors, further investment in the Zablac area according to existing spatial planning documentation, the situation will deteriorate year after year, and the four-way road construction project on the move under consideration is being imposed as one of the priorities of investment in the road network in the city of Sibenik. Of course, we'll ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106972	The next amendment is number 43, re-respected advocates Maria Alfirev and Frank Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106973	The amendment is not accepted. The Croatian Road Society in the development plan 2019 until 2021 has the means to reconstruct the intersection at D8 in Sibenik, Njivice node.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106974	Dear Representative Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106975	Also related to what we have been saying so far, so the entire approaches to the town of Sibenik are such that they require reconstructions and this construction of the Njivica knot, I think you mentioned, therefore, that part in the western part of Sibenik which is based on the historical core and only 10 minutes walk from the famous cathedral of St. Jakova under the protection of UNESCO, is located in the area of the former plant Elektroda ferolekura TEF, after the construction of the plant and the organic recovery carried out, this area is one of the most important development potentials of the city of Sibenik. After the decommissioning of the plant and the organic recovery carried out, this area is one of the most important investment potentials, not only Sibenik, but the entire eastern coast between the two international airports of Zadar and Split and close to the highway, and infrastructureised. As such, the area is extremely suitable for the development and construction of high-quality hotel, sports and nautical facilities. Because of all these benefits, but primarily because of the unique geographical, historical, sports and cultural framework in which it is located, the TEF space should in the future represent what was in the past, the holder of the economic but this time and tourist development of the city of Sibenik and thus the development of this space and a unique opportunity for potential investors. From this point on, it is necessary to impose a solution to the adequate, western entrance to the city since the existing solution is also a major but security problem at the current traffic frequency.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106976	By mistake, I skipped number forty-two amendments to the same Maria Alfirev and Frank Vidovic, so I'm asking you to read about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106977	The amendment is not accepted. In 2018, a project was completed to increase safety on the tour of the city of Vodice on the state road marked DC 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106978	Dear Representative Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106979	Thank you, Vice President. Well, what you said is true, however, you're wrong if you say it's invested enough or that this road is safe. This amendment of ours goes for the fact that for 5 million kuna, it actually does something that would contribute to the safety of this road. Since it's been built, we've witnessed how many human lives have been lost just because of sloppyness and because of insufficient security investments in the safety of the road itself. What we want with this amendment is that instead of a traffic jam of the local Vodice-Gacelle road with the highway, it is installed so that the construction of the rotors increases the flow which would certainly have an impact on safety and for the sake of the very dying traffic. So we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106980	Thank you. The next 40th amendment is that of IDS, PGS and RI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106981	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects on A57 0219, the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of buildings under the construction of ports opened for public transport of county and local importance and the modernisation of the reconstruction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry, a amount of 64 million kuna was secured, 60 of which was planned on a 38.21 contract, capital donations to non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects that apply to the ministry's procedure and which are valued according to the established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Pula port administration to run an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106982	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106983	Thank you very much. So this is about the need to resuscitate an onion still dating back to the days of Austro-Hungarian times, I dare say it may be the only building that the Austro-Hungarian monarchy has never finished. By the way, 254 meters of the harbor has never been completed. We all know together what it means for the safety of citizens but also for the property of the pulse port and simply our port administration with its own resources or city through its budget or county as founder of the port administration, cannot independently finance this capital facility. For this reason, in order to increase safety above all, don't give the god of a tidal wave that could damage property to endanger the safety of citizens, we believe that participation or participation of a state budget in the recovery of a pulsed harbor is also necessary, so I will ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106984	And the next forty-fifth amendment is that club of IDS, PGS and RI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106985	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects on A57 0219, the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of buildings under the construction of ports opened for public transport of county and local importance and the modernisation of the reconstruction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry, a amount of 64 million kuna has been secured, 60 of which is planned on a 38.21 contract, capital donations to non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects that are registered at the invitation of the ministry and which are valued according to the established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Rovinj Port Authority to run an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106986	Dear Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106987	We all know that with 60 million kuna, it is simply not possible to meet the needs of the port administrations in Croatia, so this requirement for this support to the Port Authority Rovinj is going to ensure that the people are able to build a southern port and therefore the northern harbor is built. This project alone is worth over 23 million kuna. What is most tragic is that the founders of the port administrations of the county, I would like to point out that it might be wise to consider and this refers to a set of amendments relating to port administrations, to enable investment of port administrations through credit management in a way that it does not go into the counties at all because you all know that units of regional self-government have a limit to where they can be owed, it is 20% of the original revenues and I hold that since it is possible to assist port administrations, it does not only apply to the Istrian County but also elsewhere, to ensure... capacity of all port administrations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But once again I say that this project would be implemented in Rovinj, so it is necessary to provide 23 480 738 kuna and we all know together that 60 million kuna for all of Croatia is not enough. I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106988	Forty-sixth Amendment is also that club of IDS, PGS, and RI.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106989	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects on A57 0219, the construction, reconstruction and reconstruction of buildings under the construction of ports opened for public transport of county and local importance and the modernisation of the reconstruction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry, the amount of 64 million kuna was secured, of which 60 was planned on a 38.21 contract, capital donations to non-profit organisations, which will be intended for projects that apply to the Ministry's call. Through this process, we expect the Rabac Port Administration to run an amendment proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106990	Dear Representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106991	So, support to the Rabac Port Authority for the construction of the harbor, the project is totalling 69 million kuna. It is normal that the Port Authority itself cannot finance it independently, and this is indeed an unprotected Luka in our area because Luka Brana simply does not have, the foundations are made. However, in order to protect the portica itself and in order to further develop this area, it is necessary to build, therefore, a port dam of 150 m long. I said, therefore, the estimated value of that investment is 69 million kuna. It is logical that the estimated amount of funds that the Ministry has allocated to all the Port Administrations cannot meet these needs, so I will also ask for a statement from the MPs for this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106992	And the 47th Amendment is that club representing IDS-PGS-RI.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106993	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure building projects A570219 the construction of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings under the construction of Luka is open to public transport of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation and restoration of the construction of the fishing infrastructure of this Ministry and the secured amount of 64 million kuna, 60 of which is planned on the contract, 3821, capital donations to non-profit organisations that will be intended for projects that apply to the Ministry's procedure. Through this procedure, we expect the Port Authority of Poreč to run for the amendment proposed a co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106994	On behalf of the club, respected representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106995	I think we all know together how much the city of Poreč contributes to the Croatian economy in tourist terms and how important tourism is for the Croatian economy, when we know that the share of tourism is more than 20% of GDP. But in particular, this amendment requires support from the Port Authority of Poreč for the construction of a passenger terminal because today's complete passenger traffic takes place in the very center of the city, which is simply unsustainable. In this way, the amount foreseen for 24 million kuna would be transferred from the centre of the city, thus freeing the old town core and thus reducing both traffic and traffic in the border crossing of Poreč. I demand a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106996	The 48th Amendment is also a club representing IDS-PGS-RI.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106997	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects on the activities of A570219 the construction of rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings under the construction of Luka is open to transport of county and local importance, as well as the modernisation and restoration of the construction of the fishing infrastructure of this Ministry is guaranteed a amount of 64 million kuna, 60 of which is planned on the contract, 3821, capital donations intended to be made to non-profit organisations to be used for projects applying for the Ministry's procedure and to be evaluated according to the established criteria. Through this procedure, we expect the Port Authority of Poreč to run for the amendment proposed a co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106998	On behalf of the club, respected representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u106999	Thank you. The amendment also calls for support from the Porec port administration, however, concerns the construction of a port and fishing section for the accommodation of fishing vessels at the Santa Marina fishing port in Tar-Vabriga. The value of this investment is 33 million kuna, and in order to protect the port area and the inhabitants of Tar-Vabriga, as well as their guests during the tourist season, it is necessary to build a harbor in the Santa Marina fishing port in Tar-Vabriga. It is clear that the municipality itself cannot finance it on its own, as well as the Port Authority, and by building that harbor, it would allow for accommodation for fishing boats and the normal safety of the citizens themselves who visit the site. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107000	The 49th Amendment is also a club representing IDS-PGS-RI.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107001	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects on the activities of A570219 the construction of rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings under the construction of Luka is open to public transport of county and local importance, and the modernisation and restoration of the construction of fishing infrastructure is secured amount of 64 million kuna, 60 is planned on the contract, capital donations to non-profit organisations that will be intended for projects that apply to the Ministry's call. The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects on the activities of A570219 the construction of rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings under the construction of Luka is open to public transport of county and local importance, and the modernisation and restoration of the construction of fishing infrastructure is secured amount of 64 million kuna, 60 is planned on the contract, capital donations to non-profit organisations that will be intended for projects that apply to the Ministry's call. Through this process, we expect the Luka Administration of Umag-Novigrad to run for the amendment proposed a co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107002	Dear Representative Miletic will respond on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107003	This amendment asked for support for the Umag-Novigrad Port Authority in the amount of 15 million kuna for construction, so in Luci Dajla harbor, we are talking again, therefore, about the harbor and we see for all these 5 amendments a project documentation was made and the necessary works for construction were equally issued. The very value of these amendments greatly exceeds the total amount provided by the Ministry alone for all port areas in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm going to say, as far as this work is concerned, that by building a 110m-long bow and normally in Luci itself, the capacity would be up to 70 public transport circuits. So, I'm going to repeat what I told you earlier, and it's about the fact that the Port Administrations would be able to do the same if they were freed, so the credit potential to a greater extent and self-financed some of these projects, with less needed support from the state budget. However, what constitutes a limit, these are, therefore, legal regulations which normally shift the credit line of the Port Administrations to the total credit responsibility of regional self-government units, and since it is limited, thus defacto binds the hands of these Port Authoritys, in order to be able to finance the necessary projects to a significant extent. You can see how much there is a need to build the harbor, to protect our port areas, and I believe that, unless the Ministry has already accepted any of these amendments, it will consider the possibility that the Port Authority will release the credit potential and that the necessary infrastructure can finally be built. I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107004	And the 50th Amendment is the club of IDS-PGS-RI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107005	The amendment is not accepted. In July 2018, the Istria County asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia for aid amounting to 20 million kuna in order to implement measures to prevent the spread of pollution and to remove sea and coastal pollution, on the grounds that it does not have sufficient funds to compensate for the costs of the recovery that are due. Meanwhile, the known pollutant has executed.../incomprehensible/... 40%, 45% of the above costs are under way, the cost of costs of preventing the spread of pollution and the removal of pollution from the sea and coastal areas by fuel from the Fideliti motor ship on 22 June 2018 in the field of the Rasko Bay, which is carried out by the Istrian County in cooperation with the known pollutant. Depending on the outcome of the procedure, budgets will be set out to assist Istria County until the final charge of the pollutants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107006	The next amendment is the respected representative Zeljko Jovanovic, a pardoned response, the response of the respected MP Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107007	Therefore, they can only be partially satisfied with the answer because it is very clear that this pollution happened and that the island of Istria alone cannot resolve it. Talks with and with your ministry so far have always shown good will in order to resolve the problem. So, normally, an emergency response was needed to prevent further pollution, and so far, 9.727,612 kuna has been paid, and all this is expensive for the reason that the fuel from the Fideliti ship was poured out, as you yourself stated on June 22nd. We are now already at the end of November, we know who caused this damage, we know that it was necessary to prevent further expansion and clear the coast and, therefore, as we see it, it is necessary to secure the funds in order to make these costs done, the coast was cleaned, further pollution prevented, however, it is necessary to pay. And for that reason we have proposed this amendment in order to secure the budget for 2019 and to conclude this process. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107008	The 31st amendment is the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107009	The amendment is not accepted. In the next budgetary period from 2019 to 2021, the tendency is to reduce the number of scholarship students in order to increase the excellence of students and students of maritime secondary schools and colleges, as well as to reroute part of the budget funds to the co-financing programme, board, machinery and electrotechnics, as it has been shown in practice that a growing number of students and students of secondary maritime schools and colleges, and thus also a student after completing schooling a very difficult 12 months of sailing in the service of trainees, which is a prerequisite for entering the world of seafaring work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107010	Dear Representative Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107011	Thank you very much, I agree with this initiative to increase the amount of resources to stimulate the operation of the internship that is necessary for sailors to do their job for which they have been educated, but I disagree with the reasons why you do not accept the amendment to increase the amount of scholarships for one reason I have observed. So, for many years now, the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure has been doing well to scholarship high school students and undergraduate students, and now there is the possibility of funding through the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport through no more sports, through these scholarships for undergraduate studies, but students from the Faculty of Marines are not included in any category. So that amount should be directed into graduate studies at the Faculty of Marines so that they too have access to scholarships and those of course that are excellent that valueing the criteria of excellence can also be scholarshipd by students from the Faculty of Marines. So I'm asking you to vote and think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107012	The 52nd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107013	The amendment is not accepted. For infrastructure-building projects on the A570219 activities of the construction of rehabilitation and reconstruction of buildings, public transport-opened substructures of county and local importance, as well as modernisation, reconstruction, construction of the fishing infrastructure of this ministry has provided a amount of 64 million kuna, 60 of which is planned on a contingent of 3821 capital donations to non-profit organisations that will be intended for projects that apply for the Ministry's call. Through the process, we expect the Dubrovnik-Neretva County port administration to run with an amendment to the proposed co-financing project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107014	Does one of the promoters want anything to say and listen to the club of the representatives of the independent lists has given the amendment [[- Okay, I didn't hear that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107015	This is what the coastal belt in Brna means, in Korčula it is a tourist resort and the tendency is to increase the number of tourists, extend the season and raise the destination itself, we are looking for means to create project documentation for the organization of the coastal area in Brnja, amounting to 800,000 kuna, it should not be a problem and I don't know why you refuse this amendment, thus showing that you don't care about Korčula, that you don't care about the development of tourism and that you don't care about those people there. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107016	The 53rd amendment is also the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107017	The amendment is not accepted.../incomprehensible/... adoption of the Masterplan of the eastern coast of Split which will define an optimal solution from the Polish field with the city port after which Croatian roads will fulfil their obligations in accordance with their powers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107018	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107019	Thank you very much. With the aim of reducing the crowds, in Split, I believe it is necessary to denivelise Poljička and Zvonimir's road in Split. Mostly during the tourist season, it is impossible to cross several hundred meters with a car in a few hours, it is simply a roadblock in Split, near the road, ferry port, bus station, the center of Split itself and I believe that if the total revenues of the Croatian road for 2018 are 2.7 billion kuna, as well as 774 21% of which refers to revenues from energy costs for 2018 means gasoline, gas, diesel and total that means something of 2 billion kuna, if we reduce it to the amount of fuel consumption to only the citizens of Split and tourists who use the most Split roads and buy fuel in the area, in the City of Split, it is about 120 million kn. If we pay it to the Croatian roads, the citizens of Split and all those who are in Split. I think it's minimal to make this, make... the project and do it for the city of Split, because Split is a traffic blocked city in the middle of the tourist season. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With tourists not being able to reach the island from the ferry port, they can't reach the bus station, I can't reach the airport, I think this is a strategic important project, not only for the citizens of Split, but for the entire Republic of Croatia, because when tourists come to one Mr. and in one of these years when they were, and see traffic jams, so when you see how urgent aid can not come to a Split hospital from the direction of the Dalmatian mountain and all directions, I think it would be minimal to make this project documentation and return to Dalmatia and Split at least this 2 million kn. But it's obvious to you here in the central state under honor. I demand that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107020	Thank you. We are now in the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning, and on behalf of the government, will be answered by the respected Minister Zdravko Maric, 54th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of IDS, PGS and LRI. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107021	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Government does not accept the proposed amendment. The funds for municipal planning shall be provided in part of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, so that each year they can report to the competition and apply for the allocation of funds for the regulation of municipal infrastructure, under equal conditions for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107022	On behalf of the club, respected representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107023	It is again a municipality of Gračišje which is indeed a small municipality and is very difficult to finance with its own original income the necessary construction of infrastructure. It should be noted, however, that by 2017 this municipality had already invested around 10 million kn in order to resolve the grounding and merger of two main markets in Gračišje itself. However, insufficient funds of millions and 800,000 kn, required by this amendment, mean that the state is also participating in this project. I would like to stress that I can understand the view that municipal infrastructure, financed from the budget of the unit of local administration and self-government, but by certain tax changes that have significantly damaged small municipalities, they are no longer able to do so, and I will remind the Minister of Finance, that the Istrian County is paying more than a billion kuna a year in the state budget than it is returning. I demand a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107024	Now we'll move on to... Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They will answer on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Mile Horvat, Amendment 55. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107025	I would like to thank the honourable MPs and the MPs. The amendment is not accepted. All remaining obligations of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection under the applicable agreements and contracts for the financing and construction of the Kasjun county waste management centre are planned to cover the activities of K78, 40 20 operational environmental programme, priority 1 and 3 in the group of accounts 36, assistance given abroad and within the general budget, 363 aid within the general budget of €6 million 490, for 2019 and € 180,000 for 2020 and no additional resources are necessary for this purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107026	On behalf of the club, respected representative Boris Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107027	We have a situation that is prescribed how waste should be managed, that the law itself provides that it can be at most 1 waste management centre per county and so on, that mechanical biological waste treatment implies and production of so-called waste. SRF, or that fuel part from the waste. We in the Istrian County built a county waste management centre, it is functional, but from another side issue in which the burning part of the waste will be solved is not defined. And we believe that this is a problem, not only of the Istrian County, which has built a county waste management centre, but also of the Primorian Mountain County. So, the only two counties that have made a step in this country, when we talk about environmental protection and waste management. Therefore, to resolve the disposal of the fuel part of the waste, which the legislator did not fully resolve, it is necessary, therefore, to build a facility where the use of the SFR, therefore, of the fuel part of the waste, will be possible to produce el. energy, primarily for the need of the centre itself or for possible distribution for the network itself. We are therefore asking this amendment to ensure that Kashtjun waste management centre is provided with funds so that this process could take place to the end and could show that it is time for waste to be taken care of in one primitive way on landfills without any processing and endangering the environment and air and ground and ground water, that we have made this step in this country and therefore I vote, and I ask that the representatives make a statement on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107028	Thank you very much. We will now stop for a moment with the amendments and move on to taking a position on behalf of the club and first we will ask the independent representative, the respected representative Željko Glasović, to say what he has to say. We will now return to our point and to the division of the Ministry of Science and Education, on behalf of the Government will speak the respected State Secretary Branko Ramljak, please. Fifty-sixth Amendment is that representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107030	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished MPs and MPs, Amendment number fifty-six is not accepted. The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2019 and are increased by 345 452 kuna. In 2019, two activities were combined, prevention of addiction, prevention of school violence. In the context of this activity, a project to resocialise drug addicts and co-finance programmes to prevent addiction in primary and secondary schools for which funds are provided from other sources through other bodies, MUPs, healthcare and through the Education and Education Agency is financed. Also, the Ministry of Science and Education in the framework of competitions for associations for activities designed to promote extra-institutional education and education, finance projects implemented in mandatory partnership with schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107031	Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107032	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Although you have now said that under the second programme, funds are being minimally increased, you said up to 300,000 kuna, I cannot be satisfied with that. When we see this increase of 300,000 kuna at one year level, I think it's not enough, I think that the prevention of addiction and the dangers that occur for our children every day so that we don't prevent it enough and that we don't educate children or parents about everything that can happen, but on the other hand, we see that it's no problem to raise salaries in the prime minister's office by 2 million. So the 30% increase in all the salaries in the prime minister's office is okay, it can, there's money for that, and here you said that for the entire programme in all primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia, the funds increase by 300,000 kuna. So my amendment is going to leave this program as it was before, secure another 2 million kuna for prevention of addiction in primary schools and reduce the PM's office by 2 million kuna to the level at which they were this year. Which is why we have to make love to people, it's amazing that in the past few years the prime minister has increased the salary fund only in his office, in his office, so it's the office of these closest associates, it's not just about people who are all in the government, so general service, etc., not just Prime Minister Plenkovic's office. So 9 million kunas a man spends on the salaries of his direct employees and employees throughout Croatia, here's the lady said, it's about raising the funds to prevent the addiction of 300,000 kunas. Do you see what this disproportionate is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107033	Thank you. Amendment number fifty-seven representatives of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107034	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2019. The Ministry of Science and Education is funding extracurricular programmes in primary and secondary schools and technical culture programmes from 4 elections, from the source of incentives to organisations for extra-institutional education and education of children and young people, then from incentives to the Croatian community of technical culture, from the promotion of work programmes with gifted students and students and for activities to encourage extracurricular activities in primary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107035	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107036	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I absolutely cannot be satisfied with the answer. In fact, if we're going to talk about funds already reserved to encourage extracurricular activities and to which I've also invested amendments, they're more than symbolic, and you'll hear later why. But technical culture is extremely important. And if we already have infrastructure, we have teachers, we have schools, so we have space, we have everything, why don't we actually activate from now on? In this way, directly, therefore, by funding schools through therefore, extracurricular programs, but also by encouraging technical culture would do so. Why? So I think encouraging students to deal with technical culture more learning about it and eventually studying technical sciences should be one of the specifics of the development of our education system. So we're all talking about the real revolution, we're always talking about it, but what are we doing actively? Well, very little considering what our budget is like. Since the captain of technical culture at primary school is 35 hours a year, so, very small, if you calculate how much it is during 4 years of education, so, almost teaching classes in OS are almost negligible, and in high school if it's not technical, you don't meet with technical culture anymore, this is a very big problem. 4 million kn, which I took off of the fee position, i.e., salary for employees from the president's office, who promised to cut down the office and not yet, you know how much one school would get was basic, was high on this proposal? 2782 kn for activities encouraging technical culture. It's more than symbolic, but it's something, which is why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107037	The 58th amendment was submitted by MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107038	The amendment is not accepted. For the reasons that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2019 and are increased by 345 thousand and 452 kn. In 2019, two activities were combined, prevention of addiction and prevention of school violence. So, within this activity, a resociation project is funded for drug addicts, and programmes for prevention of addiction in primary and secondary schools are co-financed. The Ministry of Science and Education in the framework of competitions for associations, with the least incentive of extra-institutional education and education, also finance projects that are implemented in mandatory partnership with schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107039	Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107040	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. According to the proposed funds in this item, or a million and 589 thousand 500 kn, do you know how many schools would receive any primary and secondary school in the Republic of Croatia for this programme? 571 kn. Since in 2017 it was 2782 which was high, making primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, it was the amount to be received. Now I'm asking you, what kind of program can you guys take to school with this amount? So you can print 3-4 a little bit more serious posters, you can organize one workshop if that's it and that's it. It means prevention of school violence. And we're always talking about the practice of peer violence at school, especially at school and then beyond it, and we're so little willing to invest in prevention. There is a saying in health, which says 1 kn invested in the prevention of 4 kn saved in recovery. If we're talking about young lives here, and we're talking about their future, their mental health, then I think that every kn is very important. According to my proposal, then, my colleague Tomic is also talking about a conservative increase of 2 million kn, in which each school would only get a little less than 3 times as much for this activity, then, 1300 kn, which was the same symbolic, was enough but still more, therefore I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107041	The 59th Amendment is that of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107042	The amendment is not accepted by reason is the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107043	The Honorable Representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107044	... and addictions by 2.5 million increase by 4 million. [[Specially enabled.]] Therefore, protecting the rights and integrity of each child requires a clear identification and establishment of a system that will protect all students from peer violence at school. Raising awareness of peer violence in schools and strengthening the capacity of school employees to engage and work directly to prevent violence by improving their skills and competences in this area is our obligation. Programmes should also actively involve students themselves in defining violence and respecting accepted values and rules concerning violent behaviour, as well as in identifying measures to ensure problem-solving. I also believe that of all the institutions of the social community, the school system has the highest opportunity to prevent and improve national standards of child protection and youth from all forms of risky behaviour, including those that can lead to a state of addiction. From year to year, the number of risky behaviours, addictions, gambling, sexual behaviors, buling, diet and traffic, which should be counterproductive, is increasing and no. preventative programmes, and this also burdens schools. The programmes should be linked, united in a unique educational programme concerning health protection and implemented on a continuous and even scale in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I asked for this position to rise to 4 million kn, in order to systematically try, at least part of helping prevent school violence and prevent all school addictions. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107045	The next amendment, 60, is a respected representative of Goran Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107046	The amendment is not accepted, for the reason that the activities of the state award for outstanding results in education and culture are provided with sufficient means for the award of annual awards and the prize for life's work, above all I mean of course two of our awards, "The Ivan Filipović Awards" and "The Faust Vrančić Award".
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107047	Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107048	Thank you very much. Respected secretary of state. Here is how colleagues before me recognized the need to increase some items I also recognize here the need to increase rewards and show that excellence and efforts in education and culture are worth paying off and to ignore on the other hand what is obviously important to the HDZ Government and that is to hire new staff in the public administration next year. And that's why we're leaving Croatia because here's how our academic Reiner certainly recognizes science isn't at the level that you should be at because when you send a message that these items don't increase and on the other hand employment by a series of ministries, state agencies, public enterprises, it's a message to our people, no. 1. in Croatia knowledge is not valuable, do not try and number 2. go out to other universities where it is the opposite where excellence, learning, education, culture and everything that should be a priority in the Republic of Croatia is encouraged. But no, we have decided that we will encourage another one by my assessment of at least 20 officers close to our prime minister probably all with a HDZ card so that these people can help our prime minister to do what is more effective and probably people are trolling on the Internet and writing comments under the articles on certain portals in order to get the impression that our prime minister is essentially excellent and that he dominates the political scene. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Academy, to stand up for this amendment, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107049	Before continuing, we welcome members and members of the Hungarian cultural society Novi Bezdan from Osijek-Baranja County at the gallery. The 61st Amendment is the Club of Representatives of Glass and HSU. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107050	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2019. We stress that the funds have been increased compared to 2018 by 25% as in 2018 compared to 2017 increased by as much as 333%. In 2019, the Ministry of Science and Education provided funding under the European Social Fund for the Implementation of Competitions to encourage work to be given to children and pupils at the pre-terative level. Project applicants may be primary and secondary schools or units of local (regional) self-government and the duration of projects may be between 16 and 24 months. Work with gifted people is also financed through a tender for associations for projects that are conducted in a mandatory partnership with schools with activities designed to promote extra-institutional education and education. The advantage of allocations is projects where end-users are children and students with special educational needs, gifts and children with difficulties.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107051	Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So how much the increase in funds was enough talking and the fact that and recently, very, very cool, young mathematicians couldn't go to the competition and then you got hooked... way in time immediately, found some funds from other sources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, next year is a key year for introducing a curricula reform, ending the school year in which it is piloted and should decide how it will continue in full capacity. If we continue at this pace it will actually turn out to finance and stimulate the average and the idea of curriculative reform, so if you want this pilot's work to be stimulated by excellence, competence, therefore opening up opportunities in as many ways as possible. The funds you will withdraw from the European Social Fund are part of the option. But look at the total amount you planned to see that in fact, the total number of schools in the Republic of Croatia is actually about a ridiculous amount. So we suggest that it be 5 million kunas because each lip is included in the excellence and competence of our students, so gifted students will return to society and economy hundreds of times. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107053	The 62nd amendment is representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107054	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in the following year. We stress that the funds increased by 25% compared to 2018 as they increased in the previous year. So it's actually the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107055	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107056	I'm glad that my colleague Beus and I agree in this that we should invest more in gifts and that he's coming back multiple times, but my colleague Beus and his club were more modest, and I suggested that it be 8.5 million kuna and not 2.5 million kuna. So when you say we have a lot of resources, then let's do some basic math. So in the Republic of 2017 there were 2782 schools. If we give 2.5 million kuna to schools for this activity or encourage work with gifted students, this means that after school, the school gets 898 kuna and 63 June. So I ask you again is that enough and what can we do about it? According to my proposal, any school would get 3055 kuna. So it's still a little bit but it's a lot more than the government suggests. On the other hand, the item from which I took it is the Office of the Prime Minister and these are expenses for services, I think the Prime Minister will survive without less research of the public change, without, with less spin doctor and less of any services as to how the public likes it, and that our gifted students will certainly know how to use every kuna we put into them. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107057	The 63rd Amendment is a club of representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformists and independent representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107058	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the Ministry of Science and Education will, within the framework of its activities in 2019, provide teaching materials and equipment for primary and secondary school students and students exercising their right under the Terms, Procedure and Method of exercise of the right to free textbooks, military and civilian invalidity wars. Decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the co-financing of the purchase of textbooks and related supplementary educational resources for the school 2018/2019 and the following school year. And decisions to co-finance mandatory textbooks for children of the deadly victims of explosive war lags. The implementation of measures to ensure support for pupils of primary and secondary schools living on unfavourable socio-economic occasions is carried out by the Ministry of Science and Education in the framework of Inter-Sectoral Cooperation with the Ministry of Croatian Defence, Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy, Croatian Mine Action Centres, Social Care Centres. How this activity is co-financed and the procurement of textbooks, the Ministry of Science and Education will, in cooperation with other competent authorities, develop a model of financing textbooks for pupils of all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, as well as establish the necessary additional amount of financial resources, and will provide the necessary resources after the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's savings through redistribution in the positions of the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107059	Honorable representative of the Jankovics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107060	Dear Madam Secretary of State, the Honorable Vice President of HS. Although our amendment has not been accepted, I thank you for this second part, which is the ministry's response, I think these words will provide textbooks for all primary schools in the Republic sound promising, not only for the parents of these children, but they also sound promising for numerous units of local self-government, municipalities and cities, which are now planning a budget for 2019. About the amendment itself, I have a club on Monday morning, so I can't give up on it today, so right now we insist on voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107061	My colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107062	Madam Secretary of State has been injured, and counterpart Jankovics has injured 238, not telling the truth. So there are clear provisions in the budget and the resources planned for individual activities. You can't say you'll secure money with redistributions. Then why do we even need a budget? So this is a scam, this is a game by Bandic and Plenkovic, which revolves around cheating and doing idiots to the entire Croatian public. So either put the money in the budget or don't give, can't to be redistributed, then everything in the budget can be redistributed and completely re-allocated. [[Employer: Representative Maras]] Make certain programs, this is what I want people to know. [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]] So there's no money for textbooks in the budget [[/Intruder: You've exceeded your time first.]] and this is a game between Bandic and Plenkovic and [[Intruder: Second]] fraud of Croatian citizens [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]] Thank you very much. [[I'm warning you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107063	Now because you abuse Ad 1. Rules of Procedure, Ad. 2 you've exceeded your time. I'm asking you not to. We've got a lot more, don't get another warning, so you can't say wise thoughts here. Now we're on the 64th Amendment, the Voice and HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107064	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the work of the assistants continues to be financed with several positions, and in this position only the lottery assets which are planned to increase further for 2019, and soon the Government of the Republic of Croatia Regulation is expected to be regulated. We also note that the implementation of the agreed project through the European Social Fund with activities is an effective human potential, which is agreed on a four-year withdrawal amounting to more than 471 million kuna, of which more than 362 million kuna of grants. The above-mentioned means provide for the work of about 3000 assistants in the teaching and professional communications intermediaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107065	Dear Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107066	It is interesting that you did not give information on how much funds will be committed in 2019, but you keep saying it will be provided in other positions, and as far as this one is concerned, this one has been significantly reduced compared to last year. What you're saying now is that a new regulation will be put in place to redistribute funds from gambling is very bad news, because, therefore, you're once again doing stunts with this source of funds, which as we know, is intended for a whole series of humanitarian and other needs that have once been realized from the state budget, and since HDZ has been in power, the last few, let's say, for the last 8 or 9 years, it's actually being transferred to the back of this source and is, of course, being reduced to those who have, by then, realised or secured funds. What does it mean that three hundred million kunas will be spent on 3,000 helpers? Well, you know that's not true, so the budget, this one, all the salaries of the parliamentary representatives, this one, in one year, is 50 million. So you're telling us the wrong numbers again. Tell us, how much did the Government of the Republic of Croatia provide with the proposal of this state budget for assistants in the follow-up? Every year we get sloppy about it, and every year it's not enough. Let's finally say one year we have enough and that's as much and as much, not every year we have a problem of that kind. I'm staying with the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107067	Are you asking for a vote? The 65th Amendment is a representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107068	The amendment is not accepted by the reasoning I have given in question 63. Therefore, the Ministry also provides teaching materials and equipment for primary and secondary school students based on different Regulations, implementing support measures for primary and secondary school students living on unfavourable socio-economic occasions, and there is also an explanation for the textbooks I gave in Amendment 63.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107069	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107070	Thank you very much. This amendment is under the regular number 1 free textbooks for elementary school students in the entire Republic of Croatia amounting to 315,724.979 kuna, I gave the same amendment last year. All of what you've just said to the coalition or to whom you deceive the public, I'm now giving you an amendment under regular number one that's in front of me to secure money for free textbooks. You are now not providing money and I am giving you an amendment for free textbooks at an exact amount, the exact number of textbooks according to official data. My dear lady, in 10 years, the number of primary schools in the Republic of Croatia decreased by more than 60,000, the reduced number of students is the result of two processes, a small number of newborn children as soon as we face decades, and the other is emigration, demographically estimated to have moved some 200,000 citizens since Croatia's entry into the Union, but it is rarely mentioned that children serve among them, as if they do not generally count as those who have moved. I propose an increase in this budget for free textbooks, I propose money, so this amendment is for free textbooks, you cheat on elementary school students, Zagreb has free textbooks, the same thing happened in Split-Dalmatia County. When I proposed I was a populist, and when I resolved my amendments in Sinj to my colleagues from the MOST Club of Independent Journals, when I pressured myself, when we provided money for both textbooks and work notebooks, then the county began talking. Well, I've been handing you the same amendment for two years. Here you have an amendment to accept it, and solve the problem don't lie to the children, don't lie to 2/3 of Croatia, because of you leaving Because of your lies and deception. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107071	.../Speakers speak in the same voice./... yes, yes, your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107072	So it's Amendment number 66. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the Ministry of Science and Education will provide teaching materials and equipment in 2019, therefore the same answer as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107073	The 66th Amendment will be answered by the honourable representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107074	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, as we have heard in a few previous amendments means money is not secured in the budget, nor for textbooks and the fact is that there is not enough money for teaching materials and equipment for primary and secondary school students because at the level of the entire Croatia planned funds of 15 million kuna. So it's something that parents know very well when they go to our schools how they're equipped, how our children have equipped schools, how they have auxiliary equipment, how they function, and it's a reflection of regret and the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards primary and secondary education, which is that they don't invest enough. But that's why there's no problem when we have to buy second-hand F16s we're the first, probably the only ones who wanted to buy them, this one on the market means 30, 40 years old planes will come and fly to Croatia for maybe 20, 30 years and we'll pay for it in the next 10 years 3.5 billion kuna and that's the money that the government will invest in planes, used planes, but it won't, but it won't invest in our children and these performances performed by Plenkovic and Bandic around textbooks, because the mayor Bandic in the City of Zagreb is reducing money on school and equipment maintenance schools. So in the City of Zagreb, all schools are spent less than 20 million kuna per year in renovation equipment, and on the other side 1 monument and more monuments that work now at the end of this one we will pay twice as much. So much for people who are in position and I would like to ask that this amendment be accepted, I demand a vote on him as well as anyone else I can explain sooner or later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107075	The 67th Amendment is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and Power.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107076	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are sufficient for planned activities in 2019. The Ministry of Science and Education continuously co-finances external activities of primary schools, and these activities are financed from several sources. Encourages associations for outside institutional education and education of children and young people, then from incentives to the Croatian community of technical culture, as well as from activities to encourage programs of work with gifted students and students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107077	On behalf of the Club, the Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107078	Thank you, well-respected secretary of state, so year after year, we have a growing growth in budget revenues, and this item does not increase by a single kuna. How the government's fleet can be increased by 117%, and this item that's 10 times more important not to say 100 times none of them. Our amendment is fair he says we won't give for cars any more than we need, we'll keep the level at last year's budget, and that extra money that was created we'll give for something useful, means for extracurricular activities of children in schools. We have 2,055 primary schools and these funds that you have envisioned are 488 kuna per school for all extracurricular activities, whether they're art groups, drama groups, IT groups, chess groups, dance groups, whether they're exhibitions, visits outside the school, whether they're school orchards or gardens so I don't pick up any more. What can be done with 488 kuna? Try to take that money yourself and design some extracurricular activity, and especially at school level, some schools have 1,000 students, so you will know that these funds are not minimal but are actually quite offensive to a healthy brain. A million kn is basically nothing, it's one amendment that we've given just enough to see what kind of conscience your government has. One million kn, that's one alleged consultant in Agrokor for a month. One million kn, is the amount that every minister in the government has in his account and could give up a calm soul to finance these funds. Don't underestimate the future of this people, don't underestimate the minds of the Croatian public, because they really condemn this behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107079	The next 68th Amendment is that club of representatives of GLAS and HSU
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107080	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities. The Ministry of Science and Education, continuously, as I said, co-finances extracurricular activities of OS from different sources of funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107081	Dear Representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107082	If a million kn is enough for extracurricular activities, or extracurricular activities, then it is quite clear that they do not exist. So we can be ashamed, so, a million kn, is able to spend an active school with several hundred sacks. In fact, we have an increasing number of teachers who don't have a lot of class. Now we will be led to that in some places, even the teachers of information, regardless of what is introduced as a mandatory subject from the 5th grade do not have enough now, even with a sergeant, to not be able to fill the entire class. And to my question, can you through free activities, therefore, through programs that you will provide and guide for the students, that the more they have offered at school, the more you can make it up to this hour? They say maybe we could, if the school leadership were interested and the ministry paid for it at all. Well, we can't expect teachers to organize all these major sections, all these great activities, take their kids out on trips, get them out of school, so they can be with them on the ground without anyone paying for it alive. On the other hand, they are denied the salary of having two or three or four or five hours less than the total captainship, and they are expected to do so. So it's amazing, we're here very... They said, well give at least 3 million, because one is 1 and the other is 3. But you say there's enough, for everything that's planned, and that just means that almost nothing's planned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're staying with the amendment, please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107083	The 69th amendment is that of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107084	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed funds are sufficient for the planned activities in 2019 and the explanation is supplemented by the same text as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107085	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107086	Thank you very much. So, I have to agree with my colleagues before, who in the assessment said that if we give a million kn, that means there's no extracurricular activity. When we heard everything from this position must be financed, therefore, with cooperatives of school, art workshops, sports workshops, different visits etc. So all that, the fire department, etc. etc. all that is financed by this money is also financed by the prevention of school violence and the prevention of school addiction and whatnot. Well, I'm asking the government, what school with 492 kn and 83 June can finance? One more rhetorical question, two more serious posters, one school event, if that, if that. I was a little more immodest than my colleagues before, I asked for at least 5 million kuna on this item, which would mean that every elementary school would get 2.5 thousand kuna. It's also a symbolic amount, but if it's symbolic, it's at least 500 kn. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107087	The next amendment is Amendment No. 70th Honored Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107088	The amendment is not accepted because the Ministry of Science and Education is co-financed on a continuous basis by external activities of secondary schools and higher education institutions, and activities are financed from several sources of funding, the promotion of organisations for extra-institious education and education of children and young people, the promotion of the Croatian community of technical culture, the promotion of the programme of work with gifted students and students, and compared to 2018, this activity increased by 178773 kn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107089	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107090	So here, in the government's arguments, we're going to keep calling on the same items that we asked to increase, so working with gifted students, extracurricular, technical culture, etc. etc. So here we're talking about high school, we're talking about higher education. If you'll go... and assume that this applies only to high school, and then not every high school would get about 2000 kn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can agree that it's a symbolic but decent amount. But it's about high school institutions, and when you break it down on all of them, we'll come back to some symbolic amount up to a few hundred kn. So, according to my proposal, it would be more petrified and it would still remain at a symbolic level, but it would still be more than we've singled out so far. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107091	The 71st Amendment is the Honorable Representative of Gordan Maras, and I'm sorry, you've reached out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107092	Mr. Vice-President, I have one application if possible and in order to ensure, given that it is a debate on amendments, we from the opposition are more or less familiar with this, but since I note that in the assembly of only three HDZ MPs to try to call the majority representatives, to explain to them what it is and perhaps get what vote on the amendments, because like this, Croatian citizens can see that they are not at all interested in what the opposition proposes but simply act as a raiser. I ask you to interrupt the session for 10 minutes and invite everyone to the assembly, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107093	Of course I won't interrupt this session like I didn't interrupt the session yesterday and the day before when there was no SDP representative here. So on everyone to assess what he's interested in, which he doesn't care about, right? But you have the word now you, but it's not, is, the State Secretary first, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107094	The amendment is number seventy one. The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107095	Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry you didn't hear this request because maybe one part of the MPs would hear what we're thinking and understand why we think we should increase the amount of extracurricular activities in high schools because if we have 1200 institutions, when we share it with an amount that means "pardon and higher education," it's a symbolic amount of several thousand kunas, and there's nothing we can do about it. And on the other hand, I appeal once again to you to realize that it is important for us not to raise the salaries of the Prime Minister's office and, on the other hand, to give to students and students in the system. And since you haven't answered my request, I'm going to ask Mrs. Poirot. Bedekovic here to pass on what I am saying to the other HDZ representatives, so that perhaps in the meantime their awareness that this really needs to be increased because obviously education is not our priority, there is nothing that can be solved by redistributions. Here's a colleague of the state secretary said that redistributions will get to the textbook, I really don't understand how it's possible if 5% of the budget can be redistributed, so we're going to have an obvious rebalancing, then say we're going to have a budget rebalance where we're going to provide 300 million kuna for textbooks. So this is the back-to-back deal between Mayor Bandic and Prime Minister Plenkovic, who is obviously not going to bring in any solution in the end except that the budget is very valuable to the love and employment of new people and that is where Prime Minister Plenkovic and his office are ahead of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107097	Thank you. And the seventy second amendment is the honourable representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107098	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107099	Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is a clear signal that we are treating teachers in the system, not only are they cut off for their salaries and personal incomes at the monthly level where it was no problem to increase pensions to the privileged groups of pensioners in the first year of their term of office by 10%, of course because HDZ counts that most of them are their voters, but teachers and teachers in the city of Zagreb, for example, when they retire after 40 years of working hours, they have about 10.15% lower wages than what is average in the city of Zagreb. And that is also a signal of how we treat teachers and teachers, and here the idea was to subsidize interest in those areas where the teacher/teacher may be missing, to help them in this way so that someone might also have the incentive to go to work in some less developed part of Croatia and thus the government shows by gesture that it is important to invest in teachers and teachers and not again the same item with Prime Minister Plenkovic, 30% more people to hire. It is totally unacceptable to me at the moment that Croatia, I would say, is trying to get out of the crisis, today we have a message from Prime Minister Plenkovic that we have increased, watch this message, a minimum wage of 3000 kuna. Well, here's a gentleman from Ireland who told him that he congratulated Prime Minister Plenkovic and the HDZ government that the week's salary is minimal in Ireland for 3,000 kuna. He says so much about how successful our government is. I once again ask that the colleagues present here from the HDZ transfer to their colleagues and support this amendment when it is voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107101	The 70th Amendment is also a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107102	The amendment is not accepted because the House Loan Subsidisation Act allows the subsidisation of interest on residential loans at the level of the Republic of Croatia for which the funds are secured under the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. The collateral is sufficient for the realisation of 22 contracted credit parties of the subsidized loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107103	Dear Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107104	Thank you very much. In one piece I had just explained this amendment, one was behind the other, but I must once again point out the full injustice and support of the Renaissance Union, their strike because it is unacceptable that teachers and teachers in a situation where the state budget has more than 25 billion kuna than in 2015, they must bargain and try to win some increase that ultimately becomes 3 + 2% of 9. i.e., at the level of the year only 3.5% and on the other hand what I can say is that this subsidisation of interest for teachers' apartments shows exactly that and that is not the concern of those who are most important to me and that is those who participate in the educational process. These are perhaps key public service employees and another thing that should be said is that I advocate, of course, that this increase is bigger but there is a possibility and partial, for example in the city of Zagreb that the city administration increases the salary of teachers in the living room by the government of the Republic of Croatia and thus shows our city administration and mayor Bandic to advocate their better status and force their coalition partners at the level of the state to balance it against the whole of Croatia. And I'm gonna say it one more time. 15%, 10-15% is less pay for teachers and teachers when they retire with the VSS than is the average salary in the city of Zagreb. Is that fair? Does this show how much we appreciate our teachers and teachers? It shows that this government doesn't seem to appreciate them at all, and that's why I'm asking that this amendment be voted on as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107105	The 74th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107106	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed amount in this budget item is sufficient to finance the commitments already undertaken by the Ministry of Science and Education from this budget item. In addition, the above-mentioned amendment does not define which uses the required increase in budgetary resources and which must comply with the provisions of the Law on Education and Education.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107107	The Honorable representative of the bush on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107108	It's all about where it's going to be spent, but you obviously don't care about Korčula. You refused to edit the meaning of the coast in Brna, you are now refusing on Smokvica, so where we proposed to allocate funds for construction and installation of a solar power plant at the sports hall in Smokvica. So that's where solar panels need to be placed because of the huge electricity bills for energy independence reasons. This shows that the ministry is not interested at all in any way in helping people living on islands, who are already in a more difficult position than the rest of our citizens, especially here in Korcula where the second amendment in order we propose you reject. I cannot accept this at all and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107109	The 75th Amendment is a representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107110	The amendment is not accepted and the argument is the same as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107111	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107112	Thank you very much. With this amendment, I have proposed to allocate 4 million kuna funds for the reconstruction and repair of the Sinj High School Sports Hall. The same hall was built 40 years ago for Mediterranean games in Split, sneezing, children playing in that hall with raincoats and umbrellas and rubber boots on the floor which is dangerous where they slip. There was also Alkar Sinj basketball club, symbol of the Cetina end of sport and the entire basketball field in the Republic of Croatia. I believe that the state refers to education facilities mainly sportsly irresponsible in mountainous and mountainous areas and assisted areas because simply that children do not have opportunities in the high school center where they go, in high school, in schools, where thousands of children from all over the Cetina region go to have an adequate gym so that they can have their sporting activities. And not just kids who are at school, but also sports activities, extracurriculars, so a lot of sports clubs are training here and they don't have a chance to train. The sneezing of their halls, the windows are dangerous, through the hanging, the baskets higher, they're life-threatening, the absolutely entire infrastructure inside is collapsing. Please accept this amendment because it is possible, you do not want and the reason is, and the reason is because you do not care about these children because it is important to you that you have made in a few larger cities a huge hall and these children in mountain and mountain areas do not have the opportunity to train. It is important to launder money through large projects and you do not care for two-thirds of Croatia and do not accept this amendment children play in the boots rubber in the hall. So are you ashamed, 50,000 people, children of the Cetina region? I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107113	Thank you. The 76th Amendment is a representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107114	The amendment of the honourable representative is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107115	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107116	The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment but this argument doesn't mean anything to me since we all know the state of our school, how many states are investing in capital investments in primary and secondary education annually. And now look, our budget is almost 140 billion kuna and here we invest 60. How much did she get away with that? So it's not even one percent, it's, it's measured in promiscuity. So it's amazing how little the state invests in capital investments in primary and secondary schools at all, as if that's not at all relevant, as if everyone's capable. Here, he was talking about some fellow Bulls here about certain units of local self-government investing and their money as if they had enough money and they had to do it on their own. And clearly, it is clear that even the richest units of local self-government, I will point out here again the example of the city of Zagreb that has money but unfortunately the priorities are totally wrong. So for two monuments, we invest half of this money a year that you mentioned here. It's a nonsensense where the mayor's campaign for not knowing what future elections are being invested in national and not to solve the problems of Zagreb and their children. So as long as Zagreb's money is being traded politically, it does its campaign in HDZ's co-operation and Bandic's mayor will not be well. I was hoping that at least at the state budget level you would try to change it but no, you decided to invest in F 16 used rather than in our primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107117	Thank you. And the next amendment 77 is the representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107118	The amendment is not accepted because the proposed amount in this budget item is sufficient to finance existing contracts and licensing rights financed by the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107119	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107120	Thank you very much. State Secretary, this answer is actually not worth a damn. So it could be if there's not a single contract that can be zero enough, so it's just a question of what we're going to realize, if it's going to be more, if it's going to be invested in the system infrastructure of a high information system of higher education, then, if we're planning more, then this isn't going to be enough. I'm asking you to plan more. Again, I say, in the information infrastructure of the higher education system at the level of all Croatia, we invest 10 million kn. What kind of message is that? Is it then surprising that in Croatia we have the slowest Internet in the EU, which in our universities, information infrastructure, is not good, which is not done properly. If other countries treated their higher education this way, they would likely lag behind, as Croatia is lagging behind today, in the area of these information technologies. On the other hand, I'm appealing that only one month is enough. Later on, we'll arrange for the delivery of the plane and we'll have more than enough resources for what I've moved here, and on the other hand, I think it would be necessary for you to do that, and it's unclear why, in fact, with such a simple explanation, there are enough resources, so those who have suggested it will probably say for everyone that it's enough. So on that side, obviously, you don't want to invest in this anymore, and on that side I'm going to ask for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107121	The 78th Amendment is that representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107122	The amendment is not accepted, for reasons which are proposed contrary to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in Primary and Secondary Schools, which do not provide for the possibility of providing funds for these purposes in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Already in the budgets of founders and co-financing holders, i.e. counties and cities. It is also to point out that we are aware of the modest fiscal capacities of the founders of school institutions, and that the existing resources are not enough to finance the necessary educational infrastructure, and we have proposed to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds, to launch negotiations on the change of the OP in a way that allows for the financing of education infrastructure, from European funds, which so far has not been possible. We note that the Law on Education and Education has been amended in primary and secondary schools, which allows for funding from the state budget, the most priority projects, i.e. those facilities where the safety of pupils and employees is compromised. Also planned is the increase of decentralised funds for others. A year of 2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107123	Dear Representative Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107124	I thank the Honorable State Secretary, I am even partially and satisfied with the part of your response in which I can either between the lines or directly say that you are aware of what it is and that you are aware that the money that units of local self-government have in that sense is not enough, but in that case it is necessary to amend that legal provision and to adapt it to the situation where the units of local self-government are located. This was specifically about the amendment, which concerns the primary school in Supetar, Brac, which is the ninth city in Croatia after the population growth, which is quite a success for an island environment, and the school is over 100 years old, which is not quite appropriate. She works two shifts without a square meter, a space for any activity of children. It does not satisfy the minimum of technical or spatial activities, and it is particularly interesting that they already have a problem with enrolling children in kindergartens, and children who are now enrolling in kindergarten, for which Mr. will likely go to school, and then also have a problem with enrolling in school. So, for example, there are now 346 students somewhere, and the next year there will be 400 students and it is doubtless something that should be a priority. Therefore, the documentation alone for the purchase of land is 4 million kn and it is simply impossible to secure the city, with you and you said so. Therefore, when the government is already in favour of demographic development, then it is also time to reward those environments, or at least those environments where they are already successfully implemented, to enable them to use their infrastructure, to enable children to be educated at least in primary school more than they have opportunities as units of local self-government. I'm asking for a vote and I have the same explanation for the next amendment that concerns it, so I'm not answering my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107125	Okay. So the 79th Amendment is the same respected representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107126	The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107127	Here it is, we've heard that a respected representative of the Bauk won't come forward, so we're going to move to the 80 amendments that the Advocacy List Bridge Club is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107128	The amendment shall not be accepted on the grounds that it is proposed contrary to the provisions of the Preschool Education and Education Act which determines the content of public needs in pre-school education and which are not co-financed by the state budget. Public needs concern only education and education programmes with children’s developmental difficulties and gifted children. For pre-school children and Croatian citizens abroad, for pre-school children members of ethical and national communities and minorities and pre-school programmes. The funds for the requested shall be provided to the budgets of the units of local i.e. regional administrations and self-government. We also note that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, financed by the rural development programme of the Republic of Croatia, for the period 2014-2020 through measure 7.4. in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, and for the construction of reconstruction and or equipment of kindergartens in two so far published competitions. In the first competition, construction, reconstruction and or equipment of 57 kindergartens and playgrounds totalling 330 million kn were arranged. In the second competition currently under way, construction or reconstruction or equipment of 160 kindergartens has been reported and the total amount of support requested is 860 million kn.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107129	The Honorable representative of the Grmoys has a club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107130	For the 3rd time, 3 amendments concerning Dubrovnik Neretva County, i.e., Korčula you refuse means looking for a reconstruction of Bambi Smokvica's kindergarten, where the expenditures are for this kind of budget that you've blown up and where you spend all sorts of nonsense on the miserable millions of kunas, but here you are. So the proposed amendment proposes to provide funds for the reconstruction of the Bambi kindergarten in Smokvica, which would certainly improve the quality of life on the island, the kindergarten building was built in the 1950s and is in a decay and therefore requires urgent reconstruction, but no one in the government seems to care about it. He doesn't care about Minister Maric, who sits here and reads his messages on his cell phone, so he doesn't care about the children in Smokvica, he doesn't care about Andrej Plenkovic and you don't care about the esteemed lady. So you're not interested in the quality of people's lives, you're interested in only your positions, that's what you're interested in and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107131	The 81st Amendment was set up by the Living Wall's Club of Representatives and the Force.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107132	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that sufficient funds are provided in this position for the payment of salaries and related contributions as well as other expenditure on employees, and all in accordance with agreed collective agreements. We also note that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reached an agreement with the unions of public and state services, which will increase employees' salaries by an additional 3% from 1 January and an additional 2% from 1 September, and if we add an increase of 6% of the salaries already increased by 11% from 2017. Like the employees, additional material rights are provided, for example, the payment of the regression and the Christmas card.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107133	On behalf of the Club, the Honorable Representative of the Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107134	Thank you very much, very well-respected secretary of state, and I don't know by what criteria you conclude that the funds for the teacher's salary are enough when we've had a strike this week. So that's what you think, that's what you want to impose your opinion as an opinion. It's like an absolute and eternal truth. [[Intruder: Absolute Truth.]] So of the 67,000 people in the education system in the education system disagree with your opinion, but you think extremely undemocratic that your opinion is worth more than their 67,000 opinions. So we're proposing in the Living Wall to take money from NATO action and to give teachers to stop the strike so that they can be satisfied and that children can attend the sequel, we think it's much more useful than giving money for what, for NATOV imperialism in Iraq and Afghanistan. What is the benefit of the Croatian motorised battle on the Polish border, please tell me that I know, I have not been able to understand it so far give me an enlightened and tell me what the Croatian army is doing on that border and for which we must give 120 million for this purpose, and we cannot give 70 million kuna for wages to teachers who strike, who are unhappy and who plan to leave this country and who all, even if they are bearded, criticize your government and your ministers' moves. Let's go set clear priorities, which is a more useful motorized battlefield or 67,000 teachers, so totally, totally wrong criteria, a completely wrong scale of values. We believe that this amendment must be accepted, that it is logical and that we are asking for a vote on that side.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107135	The 82nd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107136	The amendment is not accepted, an explanation as regards the 80th where it was talked about how this preschool education is actually financed and how, in fact, through the Ministry of Agriculture through two programmes, two tenders provided sufficient resources for this part of the reconstruction of the construction and equipment of these kindergartens.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107137	Dear Representative Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107138	Dear Secretary of State, from which our system of education has started since the first grade of elementary or kindergartens, we all know that kindergartens under the law are educational institutions and when we sum up where Croatia is at EU level, we are at the very bottom. 60% of children go to kindergartens, the next first European country is Cyprus with 74%, not to mention Poland 70% and Slovenia 79%. You have not respected that amendment to co-finance the work of kindergartens in the rural area, and you are now saying that through the measures of the rural fund, kindergartens will be restored. And now you have an example that more than a billion kunas will be invested in buildings called kindergartens, from which units of local self-government from the assisted area will be financed by employees. You, according to this forecast, would have to hire 5,000 employees to reach me in general this Barcelona agreement, which is a order of 475 million kuna units of local self-government from the assisted and mountainous areas should provide for children's kindergarten work, from which to ensure it, and this amendment itself was in that spirit to find certain means to co-finance children's playgrounds as a starting point for co-financing because, according to pedagogical standards, every new playground built in kindergarten is caused by a new employee who is financed from the local self-government unit as founder. Since we know that it is located in the assisted area of the local self-government unit from which it will finance, here is a specific example in Dalmatia Zagora, the municipality of Podbravje has received a new kindergarten of 6 million kunas, so it has to employ 15 employees, from which it will hire them, from which it will hire them, it is a big problem that we are facing and will face Croatia in 2019 and 2020, and the results of such a system are devastating, we are at the bottom of the EU. So much for our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107139	The next amendment is number 83. IDS, PGS and LRI, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107140	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107141	On behalf of the club, respected representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107142	Therefore, this amendment requires co-financing by the state budget for the construction of kindergarten in Bračis to a small municipality in the centre of Istria, where there is therefore no capacity for pre-school education, where one part of children attend pre-school education in neighbouring cities, and unfortunately more than 35 children are not included in pre-school education in the area of the municipality itself. In view of the abolition of the status of the mountain-mountan area and the situation that for the construction of such kindergartens, look, at least one 4 year total budget of the municipality should be invested to build such a capital facility is not realistic for the public to expect that it can be abolished with its budget. We often say that children are the most important to us, that we need to ensure a quality standard and preschool education, but at this point, the municipality is not simply able to finance it. For this reason, I ask that this amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107143	The next amendment is the number 84 of Honored Representative Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107144	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the County of Belarus-Bilogia has not completed the procedure in accordance with all the rules governing financing through the JPP and there is no basis for the planning of financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107145	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107146	Thank you very much. If you'd like to finish the vice president's conversation It is well-meaning that this is about projects of public private partnership in Bjelovar-Bilogor County and their only objection to, for example, the Varazdin County, which was the same in the same procedure as Bjelovar-Bilogor County for certain projects of schools and halls, is that Varazdinski ex Mayor and the current mayor who entered the story in the coalition at national level with HDZ and managed to get their projects into the Budget and we see that certain projects are already being implemented there. [[Don't worry.]] Otherwise, I was two years ago when we adopted the first budget I proposed for the Varazdin County and then I don't know if you were Madam Secretary of State or someone else gave me this same answer that you couldn't. But then the following year, when the HNS entered the ruling coalition suddenly could, I conclude that it could also be here if it were to be political will to help the county of Bjelovar-Biogorje to carry out 10 projects of primary and secondary schools or sports halls, so that children in that part of Croatia would be in the same position as in Koprivnica-Crysing County or Varazdin County. So we should not work exclusively on political trade to buy political support in such a way that some projects are then pushed into the budget because on this side a very ugly message is being sent to Croatian citizens that it is only important whether someone in the Assembly will buy the projects in their county. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107147	The 85th Amendment is that club of representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107148	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that this position provides the funds for payment of salaries and belonging to contributions as well as other expenditure for employees and all in accordance with agreed collective agreements. We also note that the government of the Republic of Croatia has reached an agreement with the trade unions that I spoke about in one of the previous arguments of the amendments, so I have nothing more to add to this explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107149	In the name of the Club, a respected representative will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107150	I'm not surprised you said no. All we suggested, here's the president of the HDZ Club, so from this area we proposed amendments and you refused. And this amendment provides funds to help students of the 8th grade of primary school after graduation. The enrolment in high school is not only a stressful process for children and parents but also requires certain material resources, mainly the purchase of the necessary equipment for school and the costs of other extraordinary activities that children attend to this help consists of financial assistance of 1000 kuna and a gift package worth 1350 containing basic supplies for schools such as pens, pens, pens, book wrappers, backpack raincoats and so on. In the Republic of Croatia, about 37,000 students graduate annually, and for this measure it is necessary to ensure that this amount that we have listed here is also a problem for you, and you know how difficult it is for parents to face all difficulties but the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not care. There are 2 ministers, Transport Minister Oleg Butkovic, Finance Minister Zdravko Maric, who represent the government. This government doesn't care about its citizens, your dear ministers don't care about the citizens until one amendment to the opposition you refused and I don't know why you're doing this kind of hard work at all. We have given the most amendments in the opposition, the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, but you are constantly ignoring it, everything we propose in favour of our citizens you refuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107151	The 86th amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107152	The amendment is not accepted. The explanation is as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107153	The Honorable representative of the bush on behalf of the club. Excuse me, Bull. Come on, make up your mind. ... Then, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107154	So we proposed to finance warm meals for all children in primary schools in the most vulnerable areas in the Republic of Croatia and in the area of Like, Gori Kotar, Slavonia and Baranja and Dalmatia Zagora. A warm meal would be provided for students from 1 to 4 grade primary school. Although this measure should apply to all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia, we are truly aware of the financial constraints and we suggest that at least try to help, means children in these undeveloped areas. The amount to be provided for warm meals in 2019 for all children from 1 to 4 grades of primary school means 30 million kuna and that is what is your huge problem and you do absolutely not want to do and anything you accept. And you will boast I don't know about these petty moves, my colleague Bulj has been proposing for underdeveloped areas for three years and now my colleague, Šipic, has sent a small amendment to a small matter of 10 million kuna and has accepted it as a government. Just so you don't lose your votes, because you're aware of who in this House is fighting for the interests of the people, and who's working against the interests of the people? This government headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic. Against your citizens, you reject all the amendments we propose, we have made a great effort to try to see what are the key problems in the Republic of Croatia, infrastructure and those that would help our citizens, but you simply do not have any will to respect what comes from the lines of opposition, you are constantly refusing and I hope that the more citizens look at how the Government of the Republic behaves which should work in their interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107155	The next amendment is number 87, MP Mira Bulja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107156	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that it is proposed contrary to the provisions of the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, which do not provide for the possibility of providing funds for these purposes in the state budget, but for the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders. It is also to point out that we are aware of the modest fiscal capacities, the founders of school institutions, and that the existing resources are not enough to finance the necessary educational infrastructure, and we have proposed to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds to launch negotiations on the change of the IP in a way that enables the financing of EU education infrastructure, which we also cited in one of the previous arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107157	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107158	Here's another amendment from Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagora, from undeveloped areas, from the hilly mountainous areas, you refuse. Governments came to Sinj, there were pre-election campaigns, promised resolution of the OS Fra Pavl Vukkovic, many ministers and assistants announced stone foundations, 2016 I chose to enter the budget amount set for this school, the project did not live, although we have project documentation, as if no amount had been agreed, and the amounts were agreed, something like it was pre-projected, too much money and so on. The fact that it was in the state budget of 2016. The fact is that in the Cetina region, elementary schoolers in Sinj go on more shifts, the fact is that students of elementary schools are currently going to the facility where the Franciscans are the owners, they're going to need to go on four shifts, it seems to me, but as you start investing, how much you invest, and how you reject the amendments that we propose on kindergartens, on education, on the issue of free Sundays for elementary school children, for the students of transportation, as you refuse, I don't think they're going to even triangulate our schools. That's your goal. So is it a problem for you to build a school in the Cetina region that has 50,000 inhabitants, which is by space larger than, a primary school larger than Međimurje County, by the number of residents of Ličko-Senj County. Do you even care about undeveloped areas? Is it not true that it cannot be in the budget if it was in 2016 in the budget. What's it been, who's going to explain to me, 2016 in the budget? Construction of Fr. Pavel Vukkovic. You don't care, and I'm even more sad that there's only one representative from most of these benches. Where are my Dalmatian MPs now? from the 9th constituency, from the 10th [[Intruder: Thank you]] from like, where are they? [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's a sea of shame and shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107159	The next amendment is Amendment 88, the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107160	The amendment is not accepted because the activity, training and training of students with developmental difficulties in primary schools has been provided with sufficient resources to provide support to students with developmental difficulties of 25 million kunas. The funds were increased compared to 2018 at 1.226,719,00 kn. Additional funds are also provided to activities Program for the production of textbooks for blind and impaired students and in the framework of activities incentives to the Associations for extra-institutional education and education of children and young people in the implementation of civil society organisations in cooperation with primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107161	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107162	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, the explanation is as good as any so far, and that's that the funds are enough. In the opinion of the promoter, you'd be surprised if someone came here as a proposing and said they weren't enough resources, that is, that would be really illogical. So anyone who comes would say the same way, the funds are enough and now you're thinking whatever you want. My message is number one, if they weren't enough resources, we can witness it every school year and by the amount of funds spent, there could be twice as much resources, and since children with developmental difficulties have assistance in schools, so we always have problems in that part of each school year. And on that side it's over, so it's amazing that the problem is to increase it by 15 million kuna, and on the other hand in one year for a new plane it's not a problem to give or used planes is not a problem to plan a new item of 350 million kuna. This clearly shows the priorities of this government and the concerns of this government, as shown and it is well said by Mr. Bulj, here only one representative from HDZ, the rest of 50 of them are already likely to be Bosilje, down to Dalmatia, there is Friday and there is a clear indication of how much interest there is in what is proposed for our children, for our students, for education, and I would like to see a little more understanding there and on some side of the concern that education is given, and not only that the routinely raises the hand and waits 15.12 to take one month a year and that more then nothing is done at all, as clearly is not done now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107163	The 89th Amendment is a club of representatives of Glass and HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107164	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the planned funds in this position are sufficient to implement the assistance plan to equip primary school libraries for 2019. The proposed amount is consistent with the multiannual dynamics in the previous period and the funds have been increased by €200,000 compared to 2018. The period, and the funds increased by 2,200 kuna compared to 2018. We also remind you that the equipment of libraries of primary and secondary schools in the period from 2012 to 2015 has not been financed at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107165	Dear Representative Beus Richembergh, on behalf of the Club
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107166	Well, you've brought us great news, so, after the book purchases have not been financed, you're funding about 17 books per library every year. Well, that's one wonderful advance, so many of them written by academic Rainer in two years. So if we calculate this as much as you, this one, predicted by every school, it's 1700 kuna. I suggest you go to Interliber and buy books for that money and see, this is a unique opportunity to buy 24 instead of 17, and then we all donate books, a little ironic, but if you're already calling for ex-girlfriends' practice, which wasn't good, show that you're better, the book is one of the most important things in school. If we get an average of 17 pieces per year, and a library in elementary school cannot function below 2000 or 3000 relevant titles and copies, then you can think of how many years that library fund will be restored. Not only are these children going to be grandfathers, but they will likely be shukundjeds of those who will then go to school if there are more children at all. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107167	The 90th amendment is the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107168	The amendment is not accepted for reasons proposed in contrast with the provisions of the Law on Education and Education. So the possibility of providing funds is, not in the state budget, but in the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, or County and Towns, which we have already explained in one of the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107169	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107170	So with this amendment, we've been looking for funds for a basic school in Marcana, be assured if this country were to be decentralised, if the cities and municipalities and the County had the resources to be created in this area to a greater extent than it is today, then neither would these municipalities, especially small municipalities, seek the help of the state budget, but would do so themselves, or with the resources that their entrepreneurs and their citizens have just created in that area. Therefore, in order to ensure minimum technical conditions for teaching at the Marcana primary school, it is necessary to arrange that primary school, while the planned investment is about 19.5 million kuna. So, logically and clearly, all of these items that follow, which I will explain, cannot be financed with existing miserable local budgets. We all know together that in this country, in general, the total fiscal capacity is divided in a way that about 90% of the total revenues in the state register, that at the level of the Cities and municipalities, and the County is about 10%, if we leave out the City of Zagreb that is participating by about 5%, then we all understand that, by the existing model of rigid centralisation, our municipalities, our cities, our Countys can hardly finance these capital facilities independently. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107171	The 91st Amendment is also a Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107172	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107173	The esteemed minutes of Miletic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107174	Thank you very much. So this is about the basic school in Savicenta, also one small municipality in our Istria, where it is necessary to provide funds for construction facilities totaling 22 million and 500 thousand. So, as in the previous amendment, in order to ensure minimum technical conditions for teaching, it is therefore necessary to edit the primary school itself. The removal of part of the existing building, reconstruction, construction and upgrade of the existing school building and the construction of a small one-piece school sports hall and school outdoor playgrounds is planned. It is clear to all of us that these funds are neither the County nor the Municipality itself, so I cannot secure them on my own, and that is why this amendment requires a new position, therefore the item in your Ministry. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107175	And the 92th amendment is the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107176	The amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107177	Dear Representative Miletic on behalf of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107178	Thank you very much. This is about Dr. Mate Demarin's primary school in Medulin, where it is therefore necessary to build a new school and we are glad that there are still places in our country where demographic growth is, therefore, not that everyone is moving out of our country, however, it is necessary to ensure normal and necessary conditions so that students can attend school or as early as I said preschool education. So this project is designed for reconstruction, construction and upgrade of existing school buildings and construction, therefore, sports halls. Since it is a significant asset that is not possible to secure the Municipality and the County on its own, a new item in the division of your ministry of 43 million kuna is requested. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107179	The 93rd amendment is also the Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107180	This amendment is not accepted, with the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107181	On behalf of the Club, a respected representative of Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107182	This is about Peter Studenco Elementary School in Kanfanar. Again, a small municipality in Istria, where it is therefore necessary to provide minimum technical conditions for teaching in primary school. For this item the amount of 20 million kuna is foreseen, and since the Municipality and the County themselves are unable to secure these funds on their own, and they would of course like to offer better quality conditions of teaching for our primary school students, we are therefore seeking this amendment to ensure a new position in the division of your ministry. Please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107183	And the 94th amendment is the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107184	The amendment is not accepted, the explanation is the same as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107185	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107186	Thank you very much. Therefore, this amendment requires an item of 27 million kuna for the needs of OS in Fažana, so that it is necessary to invest funds in an OS building facility in Fažana in order to ensure minimum technical conditions for the maintenance of teaching, and that this amount cannot be secured by the municipalities or the county, this amendment requires a new item in the division of your ministry to go to the realization of this project which is of the direct need for citizens of the Municipality of Fažana. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107187	Nineteenth Amendment is also a Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107188	The amendment is not accepted and the argument is the same as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107189	Dear Representative Miletic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107190	Thank you very much. So here you are looking for an item in the division of your ministry for the needs of Vladimir Gortan's OS in Zminj, so another of the smaller municipalities in our Istria and the funds needed to arrange Vladimir Gortan's school in Zminj are worth 9 million kuna. Since the municipality itself cannot, or the county itself, secure the funds for the management of Vladimir Gortan OS, it is therefore required that funds be provided in the division of the ministry and that the said primary school can be arranged in this way, I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107191	And the ninety-sixth amendment is the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107192	The amendment of the Club of Representatives is not accepted by the explanation we gave in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107193	OS School of Vladimir Nazor in Vrsar, therefore the necessary funds for the construction of the construction building 9.5 million kuna and therefore it is necessary to reconstruct, upgrade and upgrade the existing school building in order to ensure technical conditions for teaching in that primary school. Since the municipality and the county alone are unable to provide the funds needed to edit the school, a new item in your ministry's division is therefore required to go into the project. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107194	Nineteenth Amendment is also a Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107195	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107196	Dear Representative Miletic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107197	The Martinski District School near OŠ Vitomir Širola Paje in Nedeščina, therefore another of our municipalities that cannot be provided independently because of their fiscal capacity with the means to edit the stated primary school, so a sum of 2 million and 100 000 kuna is required to provide funds for construction facilities. It is therefore about the Martinski District School at the Vitomir Shirol Paje from Nedje and since the school is planned for energy reconstruction, reconstruction and redistribution of space. As I said before, that the county and the municipality themselves cannot secure the necessary funds independently, this amendment requires a position in your ministry and requires a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107198	Ninety-eight amendments are also the Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107199	The amendment is not accepted with that argument as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107200	On behalf of the club, the respected representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107201	Therefore, it is the Italian OS Scuola elemente Italiana Novigrad, Cittanova, where it is necessary to provide funds of 15 million kuna in order to go into the construction of a new school building. So we know that there is a lack of capacity in the field of Novigrad for primary education and this amendment we wanted to propose that the state also be involved from its level in the financing of these facilities. So I would like to point out that it is very important for us in Istria to have the rights of members of the Italian national minority, so we do have a relative quality of conditions in cities and municipalities, however, there is a particular need in Novigrad to build a new school. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107202	Ninety-nine amendments were submitted by representatives Pero Ćosic, Ljubica Maksimčuk and Marko Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107203	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107204	It becomes an integral part of the budget. The 100th Amendment was submitted by a representative of Martha Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107205	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that talks are being held with the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds on the possibility of funding this project from the Norwegian Government's gift card, from which part of the funding is provided for the education sector. During 2019, we will know the results of these negotiations. In any case, we are aware of the importance of this project and the necessity of its realization but the resources from the Ministry of Defence position cannot be reduced because they are necessary for the realisation of their projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107206	Since there are no MPs, the amendment must be voted on. An amendment to one of Gordan Maras' representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107207	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds in this position are sufficient to implement the basic school library equipment plan for 2019 and the proposed amount is consistent with the multiannual dynamics in the previous period and the funds are increased by €200,000 compared to 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107208	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107209	Thank you very much. You surprised me with this explanation of the sufficient resources and the finding that 3 million and 400,000 kunas are enough to equip all libraries with mandatory literature and professional literature in primary schools in the Republic of Croatia. It says enough about how much you invest in libraries, it says enough how much the government cares enough to rebuild libraries, to have children read to us, to develop a culture of reading, to have in some way enough books, to rarely have children can't even borrow books because there aren't enough books for mandatory literature, and on that side they have to get along city libraries. And that's enough talking about what you just did, and that's a play between the government and the mayor of Zagreb about school books that you're going to provide as a redistribution, we don't just know how because it's not legally possible during the following year. On the other hand, I am speaking once again about the employment of all those who will arrive next year in the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is preceded by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic's office with a 30% increase in employees. I really don't understand what business suddenly appeared that Prime Minister Plenkovic must have 30% more employees in his office in order to be more efficient in doing a job that, according to his statements, does the best he can. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107210	The 102nd amendment is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107211	The amendment is not accepted because in this position, funds are planned for salaries and compensation of employees in high school institutions that include gross salaries with the respective contributions of employers, severances, assistance and other material rights of secondary school employees. This is financed as part of the activities of implementing curricula reform and the activities of co-financing of teaching materials and equipment for primary and secondary school students.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107212	The Honorable Representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107213	Thank you. I think it should be repeated once again that this amendment wanted to prepare and equip one IT classroom with all the equipment, meaning a set of 15 computers, 15 tables and chairs and 1 projector that was actually meant for the first Sušak school in Croatia. So it's about the Croatian high school founded in 1627 in the Rijeka Cathedral of St. Vida, who, where Jesus ’ disciples founded a college and began means 1627 years ago with a high school education that goes on uninterrupted until today. By abolishing the order of Jesus ’ high school education, worldly authorities and high school are taking over, continuing to act and lit up... The knowledge remained burning to this day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the last major changes in recent decades have occurred and this school is today called the first Sušačka hrvatski gymnastics school in Rijeka in which the general and language and natural and mathematical high school programmes are systematically implemented. It has been a school of changes in recent decades and this school is today called the first Sušačka hrvatske gymnastics school in Rijeka, which systematically implements general and language and natural mathematics programmes. It is a school in which 620 students are assigned to 24 classrooms in general language and science and mathematics programmes together with 60 peers study a content and demanding school programme. We believe there are 7 IT teachers and 2 IT classrooms at school, one with 8 computers and the other without computer for students. So this high school with this history has only eight computers and two IT classrooms. For all of this, we have proposed only 180 thousand kuna for this school, which should have been provided in the Croatian budget. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107214	The 103rd amendment was submitted by a respected representative of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107215	The amendment is not accepted, the reasons are the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107216	The Honorable Representative of Srenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107217	And I'll do it again. We gave this amendment to the Primorje-Gorski County where the SDP is in power and of course did not consider that the first Sušačka Rijeka High School with 2 IT classrooms one with 8 computers and one without one computer with top results, from information and mathematics at national and world level has no possibility of real education and, of course, in the Primorje-Gorski County they refused and here they are, as you say, probably also by the government. So, just in the first school of Sušak, there is a regular electoral strengthening and university information, i.e. robotics, students are constantly trained but only on 8 computers. I think you should have provided 180 thousand kunas just 180 thousand kunas for 18 computers only. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107218	The 104th Amendment is a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107219	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the planned funds for co-financing of public transport of regular high school students in 2019 increased by 37 million and 500 thousand kuna compared to 2018. The increase stems from increased limits for monthly ticket prices. In a decision on the criteria and method of financing public transport costs of regular high school students for the school year of 18th, 19th and are sufficient to cover all obligations in accordance with the decision made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107220	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107221	For this measure in the state budget, it is necessary to provide 40 million kuna. This amendment proposes to provide funds for... and financing the transport of all primary schools students in assisted areas and mountain-mounted areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to current regulations, he organizes transport to school and school for elementary school students from the 1st d. 4th grade living in villages more than 3 km away from school as well as for students from the 5th to 8th grade living in villages more than 5 km away from school. Also if there's no footstep... children are entitled to state-subsidized transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, this condition is almost nowhere to be applied I guarantee you and therefore you should because I know, because living in these areas should provide funds for all primary school children have organised free transportation. Is not the same organized transport 3 km in Zagreb where you have a tram, bus, docks or somewhere in the mountainous and mountainous area of Gorsko Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora or Slavonia. Children leave at night who are on afternoon shifts because they don't all have secured morning shifts where there's no lighting and there's no footing. In the night hours, I am late in hill-mounted areas and underdeveloped areas. I think this amount would be the best of demographic measures for those areas if it were provided to all primary school students for free transport believe me that it would be very important for parents who would not fear for their children, whether they would return alive or not, because they must then organise transport, and I guarantee you that they organise the transport themselves and grieve me that you do not accept any amendment to the opposition that is constructive. Is this not about me, it's about children, it's about children all the amendments we've given, we've given for the benefit of the citizens, and you don't accept I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107222	Comrade Sponza raised some hands, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107223	Dear Vice President, I kindly ask our club to take a break to consult on the position of following amendments, and the reason and motivation of the 10-minute recess is that the promoter has made a positive statement on Amendment number 99 as regards the education and education proposed by the ruling, the amendment has been adopted, and when we have proposed that education and education are also concerned, all are in turn rejected by reason that this cannot be done. So we have proposed overall, how much, we have proposed more than 9 education-related projects, we have proposed amendments to the state budget in a slightly larger amount of 800 million kuna and if we would calculate it in percentages all of our amendments are 0.6% compared to the total amount of the budget. So, the citizens of Istria who pay each year by their work, by earning one billion kuna more in the state budget, which we have always shown and always show solidarity to those areas that really need assistance, but when we seek, like last year and this year, amendments concerning education, children concerned by homes for the elderly, means the powerless and needy, concerning health care, concerning science, concerning promotions infrastructure, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not a single proposal from us has been granted, and now with full justice, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Don't let anyone be offended, I'm asking if there's any discrimination against the people of Istria. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107224	Thank you very much, of course, I'll give you 10 minutes off, this one, I'd love to, and I'll see you at 15.10. [[It's 3:04 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:15 A.M.]] Here it is, now with an even bigger Elan, we will move on, this and Amendment 105, submitted by Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107226	The amendment shall not be accepted by the approved representative, as in the previous one relating to the financing and co-financing of transport costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107227	Dear Representative Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here I can only say that I am sorry that the Government has not accepted any of my 12 amendments, I have been particularly focused on the area of education that I think is crucial for the Republic of Croatia, and I can see by the number of amendments, meaning the largest number of amendments have just come to the Ministry of Science and Education and on that side I think that already that indicator that no amendment of opposition has been adopted, and that a single amendment of colleagues from the majority has been adopted but only one that defines in projections for 20 and 21 means that nothing has been adopted because although there has been a fellow HDZ who has jumped them for the 20th, we will only see it next year. It says enough that the government does not show any interest as they do not show any interest in HDZ representatives who at the moment have none in the assembly or do not attend here, here a colleague has come one, but I want to tell you that this only shows the relationship to what we have suggested and it is very likely the quorum is bigger, I said somewhere around Bosiljev or down behind Zadar but slowly, means towards the southern parts than it is in the HDZ Club of Representatives. I would ask you to try to respect our arguments if not now next time, because the fact that it is more important for you to invest 351 million in used F16 than in ours, in our children in our education speaks for itself enough, I ask you to take my amendment vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107229	The amendment was submitted in 106 by the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107230	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that this is on the budgets of the founders and co-financing holders, i.e. county and cities, it is also stressed once again that we are aware of the modest fiscal capacities of the founders of school institutions and that the existing resources are not enough to finance the necessary educational infrastructure, so we also proposed to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds to launch negotiations on the change of the OP in order to enable the financing of EU education infrastructure. It is noted that the Law on Education and Education has been amended in that part which allows for the financing from the state budget of the most priority projects, i.e. those facilities where the safety of pupils and employees is compromised. Also, an increase in decentralised funds is planned for next year at 2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107231	On behalf of the club, respected representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107232	Well, I can't be satisfied with this argument, primarily because it's about the high school that's needed, so medical school, and we all know together that we need medical attention. In particular, because of the derunity and non-conditionality of secondary medical school, it was moved from its building in 2003, and today this school really works in non-conditional spaces, it needs to be built. On the other hand, the previous amendments concerning primary schools were rejected in a way that is on the founders, so those starting a school must finance construction or investment in construction facilities. However, on the 99th amendment, you have shown that you do not have the same meter for everyone, because in Slavonski Brod the founder of Slavonski Brod, not the state, presupposes. Why I'm saying it, I'm saying it because that way, it doesn't matter what it's proposed, it's exactly who it proposes. For one you have one criteria, and for the other you have the same reasoning of rejection or reason that it is on the founders themselves. I believe that it is not fair we should all, I am absolutely happy that you will finance the elementary school in Slavonski Brod, I have nothing against it, but I believe that our municipalities should be helped by the same measure. And you see, unlike you, we didn't just propose an amendment for those schools where the IDS is in power, specifically in Medulin is an independent chief, in Fažana is SDP's head in Kanfanar's HSLS who is even part of your ruling coalition. So we looked equally at needs, not who's in power. You have shown your reasons to listen to only part of the ruling majority as it has been achieved It doesn't matter, but you didn't show the same meter for everyone. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107233	The 107th amendment is also a Club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107234	Amendment 106, 107. [[Intruder: 107.]] Amendment of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, the amendment is not accepted, the argument is again the same as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107235	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107236	So, this is about the Italian high school Leonardo da Vinci from Buje where 15 million kuna is needed to ensure minimum technical conditions for the maintenance of the school itself in the Italian high school, so it is necessary to edit the building itself, reconstruction, upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building, and that in that part I have stopped due to the time I also want to emphasise that when the requirements come and where the full state budget comes from. Who is the one who really attracts, who is the one who pays VAT in the state register, who is the one who encourages entrepreneurship, or what regions are that have a positive demographic growth with their work and pawnage. If we're always going to go after those who are successful, we're going to cut it off, I don't know who's going to pull that locomotive tomorrow because we can see, unfortunately, by the number of indicators, this country isn't going well at all. So the City of Buje can't finance this on its own it's clear that their budget isn't enough to cover these funds but I say once again what bothers the most is that you don't have the same criteria or you don't have the same meter for those requirements that are sent in the form of amendments but you already have a selective approach only by political resemblance and it's simply not fair. The will of citizens should be respected by the will of voters, but equal treatment should be given to all. I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107237	The 108th amendment was proposed by the PGS and RI representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107238	The amendment is not accepted, with the same explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107239	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107240	It is about the high school and the professional school Yuri Dobrila in Pazin, so it is necessary to invest in the upgrade and upgrade of the existing school building is the planned amount of 10 million kuna. It is a significant amount that the City of Pazin and the Istrian County simply cannot finance, and that is why we have sent this amendment. I request a statement from the MP on the above-mentioned amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107241	The 109th amendment was also proposed by the IDS, PGS and RI Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107242	The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation as before.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107243	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107244	The social center in Pula therefore needs to go to adaptation, reconstruction and upgrade of the existing building for reasons why this accommodation is used and a gymnasium in Pula itself, the music school of Ivan Matetic Ronjgov and the schools of applied art and design. When we talk about the accommodation of students, normally we want to have quality standards so that they can be well educated with this and the reasons why it is a significant amount of 19 million kunas and 100 thousand kunas that the founders are not able to finance on their own only ask that this amendment should include a new item in the division of your budget and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107245	The next amendment is the number 110 proposed by MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Marta Luc-Polanc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107246	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the proposed funds are not sufficient for the functioning of the future University and are not even proposed in the 2020 and 2021 projections.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107247	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107248	So from your explanation, I assume that you will adopt the amendment proposed by the ruling ones, I suppose, because there is another amendment relating to this topic. But why did I propose this, and this is what my colleague and I suggested last year. Namely, the Law establishing a university in Slavonski Brod is passed in the Croatian Assembly 25. Nine. In 2015 it was confirmed by the Decision of the President of the Republic of Croatia Kolinda Grabar Kitarevic on the Declaration of the Law establishing the University of Slavonski Brod 1. 10th of the same year. For all of this, I don't know why the ministry didn't start implementing the law until today and it wasn't in the past budget or in this budget. I assume you'll adopt the amendment of three colleagues from the post. There is already one adopted, so it is a primary school, but I am sad that when planning the budget if you are already thinking about moving forward with this activity you did not plan the amounts for the work of the ship's university. If you're going to adopt, then I'm glad you're finally starting to enforce the law, but since I can't be sure I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107249	Amendment 111 proposed by the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107250	The amendment is not accepted because the planned amount is sufficient to finance the gross salary of scientific recruits, assistants and after PhDs at public scientific institutes, which are currently in the support system around 120. Since part of them will fulfil their contractual obligation in 2019, their work contracts will expire or will leave the support system in agreement, a further reduction in the number of scientific recruits is expected. In total, around 69 in 2019 and therefore the planned funds are reduced compared to 2018 and will continue to be reduced continuously in the future after 2019. However, the departure of scientific recruits from the support system and the release of coefficients for their jobs releases the coefficients that public scientific institutes can use to hire new assistants and post-doctors within the so-called "Ps. Development coefficients and, accordingly, funding on activities of the regular activity of public institutes within division 080 of the Ministry of Science and Education in an appropriate manner and increasing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107251	There's no promoter, so we're gonna have to vote on it. The next amendment is the 112s proposed by MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107252	The amendment is not accepted, and the planned amount is considered sufficient to finance the basis of a public call for the publication of scientific and scientific journals and journals for the popularisation of science for scientific, scientific and legal associations and/or legal persons registered for publishing and publishing activities as eligible applicants within the public call. Funds on this activity have been significantly reduced compared to 2018 for the reason that funds for financial support to the issue of scientific journals issued by public scientific institutes and higher universities since 2019 are planned and provided as part of the new activities "Programme financing of public scientific institutes" and the already existing activities of programme funding of public higher schools and will support the maintenance of scientific publicity in the Republic of Croatia at one level and encourage publication of scientific and professional works, which is of multiple benefit to the academic and scientific community particularly through the fact that publication of works constitutes a condition for scientists to advance in scientific titles.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107253	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107254	Thank you very much. I'm partially satisfied with the answer. In fact, last year there were 12 million 664 thousand 414 kuna, this year it was less than 10 million kuna and my amendment went in that direction to remain the same as last year. I know that part of the funding was transferred to university programming contracts, then it was shown that there was also an increase in significant funding of the university, actually it was a redistribution of the items. Of course, we must encourage publishing, encourage our magazine but also the excellence of these magazines because, as the State Secretary and Progress said, it depends on published professional and scientific works, and the ranking of our universities depends on it. However, there is always one fear that some universities will question how much they will respect excellence in creating their magazines or we know that it can be published, so it is known in our own, in our domestic magazines where some editors actually create lobbys, monopolies and dispute the progress of their co-workers by which a particular discipline that should not be because it is bioethical at the Zagreb University is particularly recognizable. Therefore, I am skeptical in part towards the future of this item in the way it is planned and therefore I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107255	113th Amendment proposed by the SDP Representatives Club
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107256	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the introduction of a new position is not necessary because education activities in the area of prevention of violence of discrimination and thus the dangers of totalitarian regimes, fascism and holocausts are organised and financed from several sources depending on whether they are implemented in primary or secondary schools and at international level.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107257	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107258	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State. What I'm holding in my hands is a report from the attorney general. This report by the attorney general speaks of the relativisation of the crime of an independent Croatian state that violates the fundamental values of the Constitution and the absence of reactions opens up a space of hatred. This isn't a speech about something that happened 70 or more years ago, this is a speech about what's going on today. If we want the crimes to happen, if we want the attack on others and they don't repeat it differently and they don't happen again, then we have to sort of prevent it. We at the SDP Representatives Club hold that it is the best, and I will even go one step further and say the only prevention of ignorance, hatred, etc., education, quality education where our students will learn about the dangers of fascism and the dangers of relativating it and ultimately of happening again. We can't do that unless we can secure the funds for it. What you said is just at first glance exactly, in practice we see that this kind of education that will warn our children about the danger of fascism, teach them about crimes and help them prevent it from ever happening again, we only have on the basis of the initiative of individual units of local self-government, one general, national programme that would be comprehensive, which would touch the problem in all schools in all Croatia there is no such thing. And for that reason, the SDP Representatives Club has proposed this amendment. I didn't think you'd say no, I was hoping you'd accept it until last night, until last night, until we discussed an interpretation that referred to approximately similar matter and until I saw an argument from the right-hand side of the assembly. After that, your refusal is just a normal next step. Of course we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107259	The 114th amendment was proposed by the respected representative, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107260	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the University of Jurja Dobrile in Pula as well as all other higher universities will be able to present their capital needs in the call of the Ministry of Science and Education for which an amount of 27 million kuna is planned at the position of the maintenance of the facilities, which is sufficient for these purposes in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107261	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107262	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Ms. Secretary of State. Well, I'm actually amazed by your answer. And let me go back three years. In 2015, the first student home in Pula was opened, and next to that dormitories there was also a cafeteria. In them the state invested tens of millions of kunas. So only those two facilities cost me seem to me over 40 million kuna. And I will take this opportunity to thank my colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, who, as a resolute minister of education, recognized the importance of this investment and helped to see the money in the state budget. This is what we were building when the Republic of Croatia joined the EU and when we had no access to European funds as we do today. In the meantime, our university had a small, pro-pulsive university that worked dramatically to access European funds. During May last year, a permit was issued, everything was prepared to build another dormitory next to the existing one with over 260 beds. The student home will receive 85% of EU funds under one condition. And do you know what that condition is? Croatia provides the remaining 15%. You're telling me now that 27 million kuna is secured. The 27 million kuna is barely enough for a small university, let alone for all universities in the Republic of Croatia. Are you aware that at this time not only in Split, not only in Dubrovnik, but in Rijeka, Pula and almost all cities and even in Zagreb, students 15. 6. They must leave their apartments if they do not have room at home because the apartments are rented. The situation is dramatic. If we want to secure a standard in higher education, you'll have to come up with a program that will cover far more than these 27 million kunas and, of course, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107263	The 115th amendment was proposed by the HSS Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107264	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons why the proposed funds cannot be redistributed from the position of the Ministry of Defence and for which it has contractual obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107265	Dear Representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107266	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod is essential for residents not only of Slavonski Brod but also of wider surroundings. Assumptions exist, there have already been elaborates, research and evidence made, and finally in September 2015 this Assembly decided on the establishment of a university in Slavonski Brod. The president confirmed it in October of the same year. If it was an obstacle to the Constitutional Court's decision, it was made in January this year that the university could go, that it was all in accordance with the Constitution. Then why isn't that university in the budget for next year, but it has to go to amendments like this? The town of Slavonski Brod is already a university town for me and for us from HSS because over 60 years there is a Faculty of Engineering, there is an active university for many years, already in Slavonski Brod there is a dislocated study of the Faculty of Agriculture, Faculty of Education, Faculty of Medical Sciences, there are a large number of academic educated citizens with scientific titles already proven in the profession, who write scientific papers and who can contribute to the adoption of new knowledge and technology and development of this region. There is no development of one end and no Slavonia without investment in science and education, give our students a chance to study in their city, to attract students from Bosnia and Herzegovina, to give Slavs a chance to have less cost of study and give them a chance to the economy of Brod-Posavina County, Požesko-Slavonska, Vukovar-Srijemska to have both scientific research and research for innovative and creative work. It can be done through the university. These funds provided for by the Ministry of Defence are intended for the purchase of aircraft. We have already heard in and through the media it has been announced that it is questionable when it will come to the realization of the same since some other assumptions need to be realized, then it is safer to transfer these money to science and university that these funds finance the University of Slavonski Brod and these figures draw from the assessment of the financial sustainability of the University of Slavonski Brod So it's not from the finger, thank you, I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107267	The 116th amendment was proposed by MPs Pero Ćosic, Ljubica Maksimčuk and Marko Šimic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107268	The proposed amendment shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107269	Thank you. The next 117th amendment was proposed by representatives Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic and Marko Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107270	The amendment under regular number 117 is not accepted for the reason that all higher schools and higher schools are financed by activities, regular activities of the university and high schools to which the increased funds amounting to 3 190 926 kuna are increased compared to 2019. Following the possible adoption of a regulation on the transfer of founding rights, the University of Croatia Zagorje will be able to finance itself from the state budget. The government is actually proposing an amendment that will be discussed on Monday on this particular topic that would ensure a redistribution of 4 million kuna if indeed founding rights were transferred to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107271	I forgot to say, of course, that Amendment 116 automatism is becoming an integral part of the budget and now probably, the respected Vedligaj representative will say something about this amendment 117.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107272	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I can say that I am glad that this amendment is not in the form proposed by me and my colleague Siniša Hajdaš Doncic, but we are going towards some goal, which is that Veleučište Hrvatska zagorje Krapina gets the status of a higher public school, that there is co-financing from the state budget to allow quotas for students who will be free of charge at Veleučište Croatian Zagorje Krapina. I'm only sorry that here, you can't accept one fact and that's that me and my colleague Hajdash have put up this amendment and that in fact this whole story has been initiated by the Mayor of Krapina-Zagorje County and six other leaders of the local self-government units who founded this high school and thus actually launched this whole process, obviously you can't accept that if something that doesn't come as the original proposal from your parliamentary majority, from HDZ and your satellites, cannot be accepted as an amendment. I am very sorry because it is one underestimation of this House of Highs, it is underestimating us as MPs, regardless of what we are coming from the opposition, and I am sorry another thing, that you have reduced this amount because we have asked for 5 million and it will be assured as much as I saw at the press conference today, it has been very loudly announced, even though we will only discuss it on Monday when it will officially come to this House Amendment by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I also consider a little inappropriate but okay, it goes to the soul of those who have proposed that you reduced that amount by almost a million kuna, think more about accepting those 5 million, and I will naturally request a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107273	Thank you. The 118th amendment was proposed by MPs Damir Tomic and Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107274	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons why the proposed funds cannot be redistributed from the position 027 of the RH SOA for which it has contractual obligations and no projected funds for 2020 and 2021 are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107275	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107276	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased that you have accepted the amendment of your HDZ colleagues to the University of Slavonski Brod, so the funds will still be provided and I believe that the amendment of my colleagues, Tomic and I, who I repeat for the third time, was written in 2016. In 2017, we wrote it this year and asked for funds for the Slavonski- Brod University, encouraged colleagues from the HDZ to write the Amendment and take credit for providing these funds in the state budget. So, we don't have a problem with the SDP if the proposals we're proposing, you'll overwrite them later because they're good suggestions that come from our side. But since these funds are insufficient, since the recent interim rector said they needed at least 20 million, I demand that we vote on our amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107277	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107278	I apologize, Mr. Vice President, but I'd just like to point out one thing. In a number of reasons so far, the Madam State Secretary has given reasons that a certain amendment cannot be accepted because it is not properly written. As you know, those amendments, which are not written correctly, are not similar to the debate and the vote, we neither discuss nor vote, so I would ask that when the Secretary of State explains in this way the refusal of the Amendment, you should warn her and tell her that she must give a concrete reason why the Amendment does not refuse, and not what is not the subject of its decision, it is something that the Parliament's professional services do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107279	Exactly, we have a total of 37 amendments been declared invalid because they were not adequately prepared, but the secretary of state has always given further reasons, not only that. The 119th Amendment was given by respected representatives of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107280	Exactly, we have a total of 37 amendments been declared invalid because they were not adequately prepared, but the secretary of state has always given further reasons, not only that. The 119th Amendment was given by respected representatives of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107281	Honorable High Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107282	Thank you. Well, I'm glad you said that you mentioned that it was a commendable project because it really is. In fact, it's a project called the ZEZT Scientific Educational Entertainment Center, which should be at the Stubički Golubvec Castle in Donjo Stubica as a partner in the project along with Krapina-Zagorje County and along the town of Donji Stubica is part of an association of ZEZT that actually wants to participate with the help of the works and the character, one of the characters from the Croatian animated film, Prof. Balthazara, everyone knows him, actually, to make him popularize science in various fields. And now, here, I can commend here the Ministry of State Assets who applied to the use of their part of the county castle for 40 years, so the rest of the castle was bought at a public auction by the Krapina-Zagorje County and the town of Donja Stubica and in the realization of that project so far was invested 914,000.00 kn. So the total value of the project is 125 million kuna and through this amendment me and my colleague Hajdas Doncic, in fact, are asking for funds to be provided in the state budget to produce a project documentation of 2.5 million kuna. I mean, I'm going to say that they really gave support to this project and the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, Zagreb County, Sisak-Moslavina County, Koprivnica-Kryzevačka, Karlovačka County, that it has the support of scientific centres from Poland, NR China, that such a centre in the EU for the popularisation of science, unfortunately, do not have only HR and Romania and I am sorry that you did not accept this and put it into the state budget because this is one project of national importance, but I call on the parliamentary representatives to support this amendment, however, this one valuable project that will be used to popularise science at the level of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107283	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the division of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system. They will speak on behalf of the government, Minister of Honor Marko Pavić. The 120th Amendment has submitted a club of representatives of the Voice and HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107284	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs, the Amendment is not accepted. By amending the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, the Centres for Professional Rehabilitation have fallen since 1 January 2019 under the founding rights of the State, i.e. the state is entitled to founding rights over the Centres and sufficient resources are secured in their positions. We have also expanded the possibility of using funds collected from employers' fees for the quota employment of persons with disabilities, and we are very proud that using these funds we will finance additional development of the Centre for Professional Rehabilitation and sufficient resources have been provided on these items. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107285	Thank you. There's no one in the name of the Voice, so we'll vote on it, thank you very much. The next division is the Ministry of Health, on behalf of the Government, State Secretary Mr Tomislav Dulibic. The 121st Amendment was submitted by Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107286	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Health in drawing up a proposal for a state budget for 2019 and projection for 2020, 2021, carried out Re-allocation of funds related to emergency intervention of buildings and equipment of health institutions from the division of the Ministry of Health to the head of 9620 Health institutions owned by the State for the reasons that the funds for emergency interventions in the KBCs, KBs and clinics have been divided into Chapter 09605 of the Ministry of Health. Furthermore, the Ministry of Health has concluded contracts of a total value of 163 million kuna for the emergency procurement of outdated equipment, and plans to obtain medical equipment through EU Funds in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107287	The Honorable Representatives of Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107288	I call on the government to finally decide what to do with the Psychiatric Hospital of the Lopaca, and therefore I have given the amendment to 10 million kuna, there is the minister who is from my neighborhood, there are all MPs who are the same night after the hospital burned down in August, along with the prime minister who came to the scene and said that the hospital will help. The hospital is in a special position because it is the only city hospital and should therefore have a certain position in relation to the allocation of decentralised funds, but it does not, either through the County that refuses, refuses to deploy decentralised funds other than its county institutions, refuses to do so according to Lopaca, but also the city hospital which is the only hospital in that status, meaning Lopaca, the City of Rijeka cannot withdraw decentralised funds from the state budget. As a result, the hospital is in a catastrophic situation and on top of that, it burned down last year. This hospital has been evacuated mostly at the moment, patients are in other institutions and demands a decision on who will grant decentralised funds to that hospital, because the citizens of Rijeka and these Countys also allocate money to the hospital, allocate money from their salaries, go to the state register and decentralised funds, like for all institutions, have to come to that hospital. I remind the Holy Spirit is the same city hospital but the City of Zagreb has the position of the County. We should've finally taken care of it, and everyone's switching balls, it's been written to the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Health, all of them are denying themselves the possibility that they're the ones who are going to solve it, I'm asking for help for this hospital. It's a hospital where the least paid by nurses and doctors are because they can't be paid according to a collective contract, and then they assign as much as they can to pay by internal regulations. The situation is catastrophic and on top of that, the main building in which the largest number of patients were located, where one man was killed, burned down, and 16 were badly injured. Please help this government decide how to help the Psychiatric Hospital of the Thieves. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107289	Thank you. The 122nd amendment was submitted by MP Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107290	The amendment is not accepted, as is the case with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107291	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107292	Thank you very much. Here's to what my colleague Strenja Linic said, I can repeat one piece. The psychiatric hospital of Lopaca in a specific position, the hospital has existed since 1967, the only hospital whose founder is the City, City of Rijeka, as the unit of local self-government and the amendments I have proposed, is intended precisely in a way that can help this moment from 01.01.2019 at Lopaca Hospital, without changing any status, and of course I expect to resolve the status in the long term. Therefore, the new Health Protection Act is provided for in Article 9, paragraph 4, the Republic of Croatia also provides funds for investment in health institutions whose founders are the units of the regional self-government or the City of Zagreb or local self-government in the event of the need for recovery of the consequences of an elemental disaster or another disaster. Exactly what happened at Lopaca Psychiatric Hospital, therefore, this article allows this item that I have cited to allocate the amount of 3 million needed to repair the damage that has been incurred and ensure normal conditions for the operation of the Psychiatric Hospital in Lopaca, and then later during the year the resolution of these statuses, so that care of the 21st century can be developed, a team before the Primorje-Gorski County with the City of Zagreb, Istria County and Zagreb County is among the 4 only counties that are net payers in the state budget, and all 17 are net recipients. I therefore believe that, for this reason, funds must be provided to help normal functioning of the Psychiatric Hospital of the Thieves. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107293	The 123rd amendment was addressed by the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107294	The amendment is not accepted. In the proposal for a state budget, a special part of the investment in health infrastructure, Pula General Hospital, provides a sufficient amount of 23 million kuna for credit commitments to finance the construction and equipment of the new building of Pula General Hospital, following the decision on the State guarantee of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for HBOR of 300 million kuna. In addition, the procedure is in line with the relevant provisions of the Budget Act, a request for the granting of consent to the Ministry of Health to take on the burden of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2019-2037, for the conclusion of a loan agreement between HBOR and the General Hospital Pula for credit responsibility to finance the construction and equipment of the new construction of the General Hospital Pula.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107295	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107296	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. In the budget, the national budget for 2019 totals investments in health infrastructure compared to the 2018 budget, reductions are by more than one hundred fifty-five million kuna, meaning item 36.02, reduction by more than one hundred fifty-five million kuna. What's even sadder than this fact, is that neither what we predicted in 2018, we failed to spend, so we rebalanced more than 670, 680 million kuna, reduced it to less than 500 million kuna, or 1/3 of it remained unused. As if health infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia is excellent. The explanation we got as representatives here in the Parliament was that there was a problem with public procurement. It is evident from the 2019 budget, with projections for 2020 and 2021, that it is not only a public procurement problem, but that the funds for investment in health infrastructure are clearly reduced. Because the projections for 2020 and 2021 are even less. Of the hospitals mentioned above, the General Hospital in Pula is one of the biggest losers, compared to what was foreseen in the 2017 budget, in the 2019 budget, the General Hospital in Pula lost 23 million kuna. In the budget rebalancing for 2018, hospitals in Pula also lost 12.5 million kuna. When we add projections for 2020 and 2021 compared to what we saw a year ago, the net loss is even higher because there are some almost 10 million kunas left. So, in relation to what was in the budget of 2017, we have been reduced funds in Pula for this more than 40 million kuna. So I ask you two questions? First, why don't you give what you predicted a year ago and secondly, do you even want that hospital to be built if you don't? Thank you. Of course I'm asking for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107297	The 124th amendment was given by the club of IDS, PGS and LRI representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107298	As the Istrian County does not enter the counties of the first and second groups of development indexes because it is expected that the county can provide the requested funds for the hospital for orthopedics and rehabilitation "Prim. dr. Mate Horvat" in Rovinj. Furthermore, under the current Health Protection Act, the Republic of Croatia provides investment insurance funds for investment and ongoing maintenance for health institutions whose founder is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107299	Dear Representative Miletic on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107300	So, this amendment requires funds for the Hospital "Prim. Dr. Martin Horvat" in Rovinj, for the purpose of regulating hospital accommodation facilities, energy renovation, energy exchange and energy and is indeed a significant, financially demanding project. All the project documentation is already provided, unfortunately in our operational programme, no funding from EU funds is allowed, and it is necessary to ensure the participation of the country itself to complete the entire financial structure. I would like to point out that both Rovinj and Istria County have already provided a significant amount of funds, however not entirely. What particularly bothers me when it comes out of your portfolio is the part relating to the Index of Development because it turns out that in this country we only reward those who are unsuccessful, those who are not developed, those who do not work, those who netly contribute to the state budget should be rewarded, and those who work, who regularly pay their liabilities, who pay the VAT into the state budget, the region that has a third of Croatian tourism, a third of Croatian tourism and we praise the total revenues from tourism to the Croatian budget, see that this way is penalized. I hold that it should always encourage those who need help, who are not developed, that they should be solid that, we have always been proving it year by year, but on the other hand, if the argument that you are above the development index that you cannot secure funding from the state budget, I think it's the wrong message. It's like telling kids don't be great students, be average, or be bad students, and we'll deal with you more. I think it's the wrong way for this country, I think it needs help for the needy, but it should be just the same for those who are pulling treat. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107301	The 125th Amendment was also submitted by the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107302	The amendment shall not be accepted in the same way as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107303	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107304	Thank you very much, with this amendment, we have been looking for funds for Istrian health homes, Pazin Station, where it is necessary to invest funds in the energy recovery and upgrade of the 15 million kuna facility itself. We all know together that the town of Rovinj and the Istrian County can't, the town of Pazin I apologize it's about Express Pazin and Istrian County, that they can't finance it on their own, so we have sent this amendment. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107305	The 126th amendment was also proposed by the IDS, PGS and LRI Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107306	The amendment shall not be accepted in the same way as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107307	Dear Representative Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107308	So, with this amendment, we asked for an item, a new position in your ministry of 10 million kuna for Istrian health homes, but this is about Turn out Labin. This project provides for an energy recovery of 10 million kuna and since there are insufficient funds for investment in the budgets of units of local and regional self-government, we are asking this amendment to include a new item in your budget division. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107309	The 127th amendment was filed by MP Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107310	The amendment is not accepted, this government is paying special attention to the General Veteran Hospital "Croatian Pride" in Knin by proving that we have concluded and implemented a project worth 5.5 million kuna for the day hospital and day-to-day surgery that is successfully completed and successfully functioning, and we will also continue further EU projects in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107311	Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107312	The proposed amendment proposes to invest in the construction of a long-promised swimming pool for the physiotherapist, and the biggest users of the General and Veteran Hospital Croatia's pride, Knin is a Croatian defender, along with other users of course. Every election cycle is promised and Josipa Rimac promised to build it, everyone promised, painted, and this amendment solved the problem. So we'll have a gym for physiotherapy at the Knin hospital, a general hospital for a veteran hospital called "see now" as Croatian Pride. To come neatly to the Dalmatian Zagora in Knin, which has in the last 5 years for twice as many as he had 5 years ago, we see that, mainly during the day of the Storm, that you who are guests, high officials have been fenced to various barriers so that you don't accidentally whistle, but take off the blood, go to the end, look at that end, that hospital means a lot to them, a veteran hospital means a lot to that end that because it's mostly people who are the defensive population and the rest of them are using and the promises that you, Minister, Josipa Rimac, all those who have been making promises, you lied to that people, you've deceived that people. And no amendment we've given has been accepted for the end, and Minister Kujundzic is from that area, the Dalmatian Burn, so to whom he throws the fog in his eyes. The biggest demographic outflow in the last 5 is from Dalmatia Zagora, and you do not want to invest in a hospital called Knin Croatian Pride, Veteran Hospital and you promise every pre-election campaign and paint on Knin, it can be a shame to you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107313	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju, for the 128th amendment of Ines Strenja.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107314	The amendment is not accepted, the Ministry of Health invested in 2018 as much as 100 million kuna of KBC Zagreb from EU funds, as part of two calls for day-to-day surgery and emergency reception. Also, as a beneficiary of two grant contracts, KBC Zagreb has acquired highly sophisticated KBC equipment amounting to more than 88 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107315	Thank you, esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107316	I know how much you've invested in KBC Rebro, all that you're saying has been withdrawn from the funds that we've been withdrawing since 2016 for OHBPs and day hospitals. I know exactly how much you've invested. What I'm talking about here is 7.5 million kunas to establish the work of a child therapy centre with acute lymphoplastic leukemia, so it's about that disease that made little Nora Shitum go when she was experimenting in America. We want to do this to our children of Croatia, children cannot depend on gatherings, humanitarian gatherings to perform therapy somewhere outside the world. So, KBC institution that has a long tradition of blood cell transplants and cell therapy and is a leading institution not only in our country but also in the region. Thus, these costs, which we say manipulations, are about a tenth of the amount that is actually needed if the current commercially available is applied but for many economies a realistically overpriced method. So, recently from the FDE, American means fudet dear associationton approved the first commercial preparation of genetically modified t-lymphocytes, these are these card cells for child therapy suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It is an innovative but expensive technology that is now available in a small number of world cell therapy centres. Developing such an innovative platform in our Croatia would mean offering our children and our patients the opportunity to treat with the latest technology with an innovative approach to be extremely commercially acceptable and thus our KBC of Zagreb would be positioned as leading in this part of Europe so that we can offer this therapy to others in our region. This innovation would certainly improve not only the survival of haematological and oncological patients but also the overall health care system of Croatia, which I am telling you about. About 7.5 million kunas to treat our children with lymphoblastic leukemia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107317	Thank you, dear colleagues of Ines Strenja. We move on to the 129th Amendment of Honored Representative Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107318	Thank you very much, the amendment is not accepted, the Ministry of Health has provided financial resources in accordance with the financial opportunities of 2008 to 2017 for the purpose of immunogenic testing of voluntary donors of blood-cells with a total of 37.5 million kuna, and we note that the proposal for a state budget for 2019 provides sufficient resources for the needs of the imogenetic testing of charity donors to blood-generating stem cells.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107319	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107320	Thank you nicely, quite wrong Mr. Secretary of State, these are not enough means to type donors at this time you have 1,500 stored samples that are not typed, and at the same time you have 3 young people who have not found a donor within this register or world registers I will list them by names because they are publicly known, Robert Matic 5 years, Valentino Family 15 years and Marko Radonić 17 years, if you do not approve my amendment it will not be possible to type the samples that are now on Rebra. And that will lead to three young people, but also other patients who need a stem cell transplant not finding a donor in this register. With those collected samples that will be collected by the end of the year, there will be 2,000 samples that will not be typed and exactly the state has invested 37 million kuna so far and I don't see any reason why it can't invest another million kuna anymore so that it has 2.5 million kunas that will allow us to type all 2,000 samples and to find among them, there may be a donor among those 2,000 donors for these three children, but it is likely for some of the future patients who are now being treated in hematology in Croatia and it is completely inappropriate to say that the state has invested 37 million kunas, the state should continue to invest and these 1.5 million kunas are too little for those needs we have. And this is not the amendment of any party, no red, no white, no blue, no yellow, this is the amendment of patients in Croatia who need a stem cell transplant. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107321	I thank my esteemed colleague Mrssic. We move on to the 130th Amendment, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107322	The amendment is not accepted, the resources for the work of the Croatian Emergency Medicine Institute in the proposal of the State Budget for 2019 are provided in sufficient amount for the implementation of the law of the prescribed activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107323	Thank you. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107324	Dear Secretary of State, we suggest that the purchase of a fast ship with specialized equipment for the island emergency service, so it is necessary, so the funds are provided from an opportunity of 650 thousand kuna for additional equipment, and the total cost of the purchase of the ship and the equipment, the education of the team of island emergency services 2,600,000 kuna, it is a Sibenik aquarium that is one of the most challenging and challenging areas in the Adriatic this archipelago includes the National Par Kornati, settlements and islands of Žirje, Capri, Zlarin, Prvić, Murter and Krapanj, just to remind that the island of Zlarin has been born for the first time in its history more than the dead, and we believe that this is a demographic measure, we are looking for a vote on this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107325	I thank my colleague Mark Sladolev. We move on to the amendments to the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. I welcome the Secretary of State to Mrs Margaret Hungarian. 131st Amendment of Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please welcome State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107326	Mr Vice-President, the amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to implement the planned measures, taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107327	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107328	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can't, of course, be satisfied with this kind of answer. I do not consider the funds sufficient, namely, the development of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia must be one of the specifics of the development of the NGO sector, the care of socially vulnerable groups in society, as well as the promotion of individuals to constructively contribute to society and use their time in a productive way for themselves and their environment as a whole. The culture of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia is not satisfactory, it is necessary to further institutionally encourage and strengthen, which is done by adopting the Voluntary Law, but further work is needed, which requires additional funding. My proposal was to increase the funds by 4 million kuna, which is about kuna per capita. I think it's more than symbolic, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107329	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic. We're moving on to the 132nd Amendment Club of Representatives of the HSS. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107330	The amendment is not accepted, since funds for home functions as a dislocated home unit for older and powerless persons Slavonski Brod are secured at the position of A788017, additional means of balancing for decentralised functions based on the Decision on minimum financial standards, criteria and criteria for decentralised financing of homes for older and powerless persons in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107331	I thank the secretary of state. Dear colleague Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107332	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, care for the old and powerless must be our priority if we are a social state, and we are, and we want to show ourselves. There are over 500 in Brod-Posavina County, and some say 1,000 of our fellow citizens who have been waiting for more than two years for accommodation in a home for old and powerless. Yes, in the new chapel, he extorts work and a separate unit. However, there are not adequate conditions, it has recently been invested in the past years to adapt the conditions, but we have understood in Brod-Posavina County, Nova Kapela municipality and a home for the old and powerless that it is better to build a new home for the old and powerless as a special unit in Nova Kapela. The municipality of Nova Kapela donated land, joined the construction of elaborates and all related documentation, which has been done. And from this financial elaborate, it turns out that the construction of a new unit takes 17 million kuna, which is an amendment to build a new home in the New Chapel for accommodation of a certain number of protégés, elderly and thus giving them one quality care and care that we know that in the home for the old and powerless has medical care and all the others, especially since we have one big problem here with a part of the persons who are less mobile or immobilised, which is that we do not have enough capacity for the accommodation of the same, and especially because we do not have a problem solved, and people who do not have enough financial resources and cannot go to private accommodation that is of particular quality in some families, but is more expensive than in the home for older and powerless in Slavonski Brod and Novi Kapela. Because of these fellow citizens, not because of HSS and me personally, consider ensuring that money goes into construction of that home, to reduce waiting lists that are over two years, that these 500 people do not wait, and that they have quality care in older days, because they deserve it, thank you nicely and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107333	I thank my colleague Vlaović. We move on to 133th Amendment of Honored Representative Domagoj Hajdovic, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107334	The amendment is not accepted, as is the case for Amendment 131 of Honorable Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107335	Thank you, dear colleague Hajdukovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107336	Thank you very much. In fact, I think we'll all agree when I say that young people are a particularly sensitive group in society that deserves special attention and protection. Quality policy for young people is a prerequisite for full inclusion and achievement of young people, especially in relation to education, vocational training, work, recreation and healthy life. In light of the fact that we care about the position of young people in society, that their voice is heard, as well as that they themselves participate in the formation of policies and relations towards their population, and that they are achieved in society in quality, I believe it is important that in the position of youth policy in the budget they also receive adequate funds as part of our efforts to keep young people in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, according to the 2011 census in the Republic of Croatia, lived until 19th of the life of 896 605 people. Unfortunately, that number is probably smaller now. But if we are guided by this figure and with the proposed funds that the Ministry has intended for this purpose, then it turns out that the government is investing $4.46 per young person in youth policy. So that's unacceptable to me. My proposal more than doubles this item or on the head would be €11.15. It's also a symbolic amount, but it's still higher than it's planned and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107337	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hajdukovic. We move on to the 134th Amendment, the Honored Representative of Mary Alfirev. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107338	The amendment is not accepted, it is the same explanation as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107339	Thank you. Dear colleague Alfirev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107340	Thank you, Vice President. Of course, I am not satisfied with this response because you do not show sufficient sensitivity or show sufficient consideration for the implementation and obligation to ratify the Istanbul Convention. This Amendment goes after it and to increase the resources that will be necessary in any case for the quality of professional support for victims of violence against women, for the implementation of all those activities of improving the work of shelter for victims of violence, violence against women, but also for further education because this society, many of us, many of us, who conduct public duties, seems to need additional education, additional education. It also says in the National Strategy that in this paragraph, the education of representatives of the national authorities of units of regional self-government and civil society organisations will be carried out. And I agree, and I think that there is an additional effort here to avoid our esteemed high officials, so they don't get away from talking about violence happening either here or there in a family because it's so random or that the president on time or that day when the international day of fighting violence against women doesn't come out at all or that it doesn't sound at all about everything that a woman is going on in hospitals. I therefore request a vote under this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107341	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. We are moving on to the 135th Amendment of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives. Here's your honorary secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107342	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient for the implementation of the planned amounts for the guaranteed minimum compensation for 2019, taking into account the fact of the expenditure of 2017 and 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107343	Thank you. If anyone would like to explain the amendment from, esteemed colleague Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107344	Thank you, Your Excellency. Well, I'd like to tell the lady who just refused my amendment that I understand what she means by that the planned funds are enough for a guaranteed minimum fee. But the point is not whether you have enough money for it but the point of the amendment is whether the minimum fee is too small. I personally and in the Living Wall, who in some way represent largely poor people and we decided to increase by 50% the amount of funds that are being received, in the form of guaranteed minimum fees, because the current assets are not double for normal life, and you know that, in the end, too. The items from which we plan to cut funds are as follows. The peace missions that are essentially military missions in Afghanistan for 100 million kunas and this equipment by means of a multi-purpose plane that we wanted to cut by 200 million kunas. It means if there were less for the war in Afghanistan and there was a little less resources for this shrimp, old iron that no one needs. And if that money was directed at living people who were existentially threatened, I believe that many would be easier to live, that many children’s faces would be happier and that simply many families would make life easier for them. And I know you don't have hearing for them. It was clear to me before I even handed over this amendment that you would refuse it. But I wanted to show your face to the entire Croatian public and your false concern for those who find it most difficult. Because in her day, Jadranka Kosor said HDZ was the strongest when it was the hardest. But here's when these people are the hardest, you've paintedly pushed them down the stairs and may be ashamed of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107345	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar. We move on to the 136th Amendment of Honored Representative Zeljko Jovanovic. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107346	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to achieve the planned amounts for education fees for 2019. In particular, although in 2017, the trend in the increase in the number of users in education was a trend. In October 2018, he used the compensation of 50 users.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107347	Thank you. Dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107348	Thank you very much. Well, Madam Secretary of State, that's what I'm going to say as well as the amendment concerning, for example, the amendment. professional training of top athletes and them, enabling them to pursue a professional career after a sports career. This is also true for this amendment, so the question is whether you have managed to get to all those who need to through these fees to make better education possible. Because education is the key to a better life and in a person's system, for example. with special needs, this is further expressed. For example, there are environments that have no logos at all, which have no rehabilitators at all, and in Zagreb we have a top-notch polyclinic Suvag and a kindergarten and a primary school where people with hearing and speech can perfect and improve their ability to remain so that they can function normally later in their lives. In some areas, there is no possibility of giving them such concern and there is such concern in Zagreb. And if they come from other parts of Croatia, if it comes to them, for example. The possibility simply will not be able to realise or realize this possibility of being in kindergarten because it will be necessary to pay for 6 months of stay in Zagreb. Therefore, new education benefits should be introduced and, therefore, I have asked for this to be increased and to extend the scope of all those in the social care system through education benefits can provide better education because this means a better life and I ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107349	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. We move to the 137th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here's your esteemed secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107350	The amendment is not accepted because the planned funds are sufficient to implement the planned measures, taking into account the fact of the funds spent in 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107351	Thank you. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107352	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With this amendment, we provide funding of 300 thousand kuna to cover the cost of summering children with difficulties without the need for parental care. So we think that schools have to organize themselves and that very often do humanitarian actions on the subject and only my school, here go Christmas fairs and where parents organize themselves. We also believe that these humanitarian actions are not even legally arranged enough for schools to engage in such things. This is one rehabilitation measure, it's a couple of days of sea these kids would go to. And we think that they need to secure it and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107353	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Sladolev. We move on to the 138th Amendment of the Honored Representative of Ines Strenja. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107354	The amendment is not accepted since the work of student homes is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107355	Thank you. Dear colleague of Ines Strenja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107356	As I have already said several times, I believe that medicines should not be organised humanitarian actions as well as support for children who are fostered or coming out of foster families and children's homes, there is no need to collect any money from humanitarian activities, it is a duty to do so by the state. Last year, too, many of us participated, supported the action with us “You’re not alone” where Caritas finally decided that under the action “Yes Life Have!” he organized the collection of funds for a youth facility where children could settle in Zagreb if after their adulthood they left their homes and should then live in a community. I can't get out of a foster home at 18 and we don't have any responsibility for it systematically as a state. And that's why Caritas organized it, I suggest that the state single out 15 million kunas and that such homes mean such buildings in Split, Osijek and Rijeka where children could have a place after leaving children's homes and foster families where we now have up to 3000, after their adulthood where they can continue to live at least a certain amount of time and especially talk about Rijeka, Osijek and Split because there would be those children who would continue and study there. It is about many of them who actually after leaving the foster home, from childhood homes, stop any further education and have no opportunity to study except by applying to dorms and need such care. And that's why I thought of it as the Ministry of Demography, family and youth should have a sense of how to plan to take care of those children. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107357	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. We move to the 139th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107358	The amendment is not accepted because priority activities with regard to the care of older people are aimed at developing beyond institutional services which ensure the retention of older people in their own home and health rehabilitation does not take place in part in the work of the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107359	Thank you. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107360	In Split we have 50,000 persons of a third age and in Split homes for older and powerless there are only room for them up to 1000 and there are more than 4 years waiting for home accommodation. There are more than 1500 people registered on waiting lists. With this amendment we have given for the construction of project and technical documentation for the construction of a home for elderly and powerless persons for health care... in the Split area, the problem would be reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the minimum you can do to Split is make this amount of 4.5 million kuna needed to produce this documentation, to return to Split at least in this way and Dalmatia. So you reject Split all amendments, Split-Dalmatia County, Dalmatia, Lici, Gorski Kotar, so it's not just the center of the dawn of this Assembly here and Mark's square and you and your offices. We need to know that in the city of Split, pensioners are literally hungry, we know what their lowest pensions are. They don't have enough money, they feed and live off collecting plastic bottles. The project should cover two components, the first provision of services and accommodation of care and older and powerless persons and provide for accommodation and facilities for at least 300 persons. The second component is to provide health rehabilitation services in all age groups. I believe that since we have a great need for the elderly, more and more older populations, that Split and the hinterland are huge, that the Split-Dalmatia County itself is the most numerous behind the city of Zagreb, that at least a few amendments should be approved, however, you do not care about Split or Split-Dalmatia County or Dalmatia. I'm asking for a vote, but this really went too far. This all went down at 3:00, so I don't have to say what. This is a disaster. ... The vote. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107361	... Miri Bulju, we're moving on to the 6th Amendments of the IDS, PGS and LRI Club, do you want to be united or individually? ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mr. 140th Amendment, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107362	The amendment is not accepted since the funds for the function of the home are secured at the position of A788017 additional balancing funds for decentralised functions based on a decision on minimum financial standards, criteria and criteria for decentralised financing of homes for older and powerless persons in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107363	Thank you. Dear colleague Boris Miletic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107364	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I cannot be satisfied with this answer, it reads that you may not have even studied the amendment itself which is addressed because the subject of this amendment is the need to invest in the upgrade and reconstruction of the existing home. Why? Because there is simply a lack of necessary capacity. And these 6 amendments relating to nursing homes are in principle suggestions to help third-age citizens and those who need help because I believe that no one would go to a home unless they really had a need. These 6 amendments in total are only 0.1% of the Republic of Croatia's budget. Yeah, you heard right, 0.1% of the budget. Given the lack of capacity, what you would like to point out is that it would be good to consider how existing models of accommodation of persons can be more just. So the capacity on the one hand is missing because our pensioners, therefore the citizens who worked, deserve their pensions but the pensions are insufficient to pay the economic cost of costing, normally to look for places in the subsidized home if you were to establish a system that would give citizens the opportunity to stay and the institutions of other founders, then you would certainly have a more just system where people in the homes of older and powerless would exactly be able to accommodate themselves. That is why we have proposed this Amendment for a home for older and powerless persons Alfredo Stiglic in Pula and I am asking for a vote on the Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107365	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boris Miletic. We're moving on to 141st Amendment Club of Representatives IDS-PGS-RI. Here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107366	The amendment is not accepted since, except through a decision on minimum financial standards, criteria and criteria, the decentralised functioning of homes for older and powerless persons in 2019 can be planned exclusively for homes whose founder is the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107367	Thank you, dear colleague Boris Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107368	So, with this amendment, we've been looking for funds for an elderly person's home in Labin that doesn't exist. So, you need to build it. And since the way the Ministry works has closed the network of existing accommodation facilities, it would be fair to see and fairer to deploy accommodation facilities in an equal manner in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. So we see that we have cities where there are no homes at all, so there are no accommodation facilities, and we see that there is no thought of changing the existing functioning. So I'm going to do it again and maybe give you one example, which I told the Minister himself, since in the domain of local self-government, it's systematically pre-school education, and we wouldn't have enough capacity if we didn't use other founders' institutions. But how do you make it right? So exactly by defining by criteria who has the right to a state grant for housing in a nursing home. Who's the real estate censor? Is it someone who has a high pension or is it someone with a small pension and can't afford to pay an economic price? If we could access this problem in this way, at least we could help those who simply don't have financial opportunities to pay under quotes, as we call them private institutions, because the economic price is too high, but with a fairer approach would allow those who have little pensions and have no property, and unfortunately because of their insufficient capacity, it includes networks of homes for the elderly and the powerless, there is no free bed for them. That's why we asked these amendments to build or upgrade the existing ones and for a home for older and powerless persons in Labin to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107369	I thank my colleague Miletic. We're moving on to the 142nd Amendment of the IDS-PGS-RI Club, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107370	The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the same as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107371	Thank you, dear fellow Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107372	So this is about the town of Pazin, the headquarters of County, so it's a big city according to qualifications. However, there is no home in the city for the elderly and the powerless. So there's no capacity at all. That's what I want to point out. So I want to point out that you should have the same meter, so you measure all parts of the RH by equal measure. When we talk about the old and the powerless, so the people who have done their working life, the people who, I'll say, are in charge of younger generations, and I'll repeat, all these six amendments are only 0.1% of the budget. So, these people don't allow accommodation, I think it's just not good, that it's not right. And it's possible to solve it exactly in a way that changes the existing inefficient system. So, the home for the elderly and the powerless in Pazin does not exist, it is necessary to build it and hold it in order to make it fair for pensioners from that area of accommodation in the very home. On the other hand, we all know together that pensions are small, but living with a small pension in Istria, where unfortunately, and rents more, so I'm going to say, and the cost of living higher, can certainly be difficult to compare with other parts. I therefore believe that for this population, this ministry should have a special sensitivity and, once again, take property censorship that those who have insufficient pensions cannot afford an economic cost, have from the state or from our community guaranteed accommodation. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107373	I thank my esteemed colleague Miletic. We're moving to 143rd Amendment Club of Representatives IDS-PGS-RI, please welcome State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107374	The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the same as for the previous two amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107375	Thank you, colleague Miletic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107376	Thank you very much. With this amendment, we have requested funds for a home for older people in the city of Buzet. So first of all, to build a home, we all know that existing decentralised funds are simply not enough to maintain existing infrastructures, existing buildings, let alone upgrade some new part or build a new home itself. I believe that in this area too it is necessary to show sensitivity to our fellow citizens of the third life age and simply to citizens who do not have the opportunity to be helped by family to have a guaranteed place in the home itself in order to have the right to a decent life and in the third lifetime. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107377	Thank you. We're moving on to the 144th Amendment of the IDS-PGS-RI Club, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107378	The amendment is not accepted, the argument is the same as for your Amendment under regular number 140.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107379	Thank you, dear colleague Miletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107380	With this amendment, we were looking for funds for a home for older people in Novigrad, CASA PER ANZIANI CITTANOVA, for the reason that it is necessary to renovate the building itself, and the amount of 7 million kuna is simply too large for the institution itself to finance it. I think we should have a little more sensitivity to our most vulnerable groups. Therefore, the assistance and care of our fellow citizens of the third age is, not only necessary, but also necessary. I'd like the MPs to make a statement on this amendment, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107381	Thank you. We're moving on to 145th Amendment of the IDS-PGS-RI Club, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107382	The amendment is not accepted, the same as for the previous amendment and the amendment under regular number 140.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107383	Thank you. Comrade Miletić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107384	So, Home for older persons from Rusha, where it is necessary to construct and upgrade the home building itself. So that's the 6th of the 6th of the 6th of the amendments in the area of the Ministry's resolution and I repeat the total value of all these amendments that we have directed towards our third-age fellow citizens is only 0.1% of the state budget. We are leading safely at regional and local level to care for our third-age fellow citizens, and I believe that the Ministry should also show more sensitivity so that our fellow citizens who need accommodation and who cannot pay in the institutions of other founders, or with their pensions, can not pay the price of accommodation of 5500-6000 or 7000 kuna per month for those people who have done their working life and who need accommodation, the social community should provide adequate care and care. I therefore request a statement on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107385	I thank my esteemed colleague Miletic. I would also like to thank State Secretary Margareta Mađeric. We're moving on to the Justice Department's amendments. I call upon the Honorable Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic. 146th Amendment of Honored counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107386	The government does not accept this amendment. Namely, for the tasks of resociation and social integration of our perpetrators of criminal acts that are addicts, we send them to the institutions, so, outside the prison system, and basically there's a major cost going on. We have 6,000 kunas this year, and that's why for the next year, we only balanced 15000 kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107387	I thank the minister. Dear colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107388	Thank you very much. Well, dear Minister, that's exactly why it looked funny to me, this estimated amount of 15000 kuna, so I suggested an amendment to increase that amount, because I don't know what can be done at all with 15000 kunas in terms of the resociation and social integration of perpetrators of criminal acts, as it is, indeed, an important job. In Croatia there are about 7,000 addicts in constant treatment, some of them are perpetrators of criminal acts, and it is certainly very important for society to try to resociate and integrate them socially. But if you claim that your Ministry does not, in fact, participate in this process, then I can give up my amendment and I am not asking for a vote, but I encourage you to, together with other ministers in the Croatian government, ensure as much resources as possible for successful rehabilitation and social integration of perpetrators of criminal acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107389	So you're withdrawing the 146th Amendment? Thank you very much. We move on to the 147th amendment, the respected representative of Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107390	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here these 10 million kunas, we have agreed this amount to USKOK, which is actually needed for their regular business of 25 million kuna. These 10 million kunas we will in some way provide in other items, and this is for the lease of the business space in which they enter', it will go from the Justice Department's item, and another 5 million kuna we provide for the restoration of space on Kennedy Square where certain capacities will also be filled, and the current ones buried, released. So this amount, 25 million, is in line with the BOOK and enough for their regular business, and what we're going to do extraordinarily, it's going to go with these other items.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107391	I thank the Honorable Minister. Dear colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107392	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We all know that one of the key problems of Croatian society, corruption, organised crime, that citizens are leaving Croatia because of the problem of corruption and every move where we will show and raise efficiency and justice, and the repressive apparatus, is the way to restore citizens' confidence in the system, to make the index of perception and corruption more favourable, next week we mark the International Day of Combating Corruption, so I do not think that the funds are sufficient, from my numerous contacts as president of the National Council for monitoring the implementation of the Corruption Prevention Strategy, is always being repeated, as USKOK, DORH work in conditions that are inadequate, to have insufficient resources, so, despite your explanation, I insist that we vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107393	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. We move on to 148, the amendment of a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107394	Your Honor, we also do not accept this amendment, because the amount we have foreseen for the next year of the million kuna is quite enough for all of these activities that we have, primarily and most of all these are contracts with psychologists, and this year we have an estimated 900 000 kuna, and we are not actually going to be able to spend it by the end of the year. So this amount, looking back a few years, will be quite enough for next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107395	I thank the minister. Dear colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107396	Thank you very much. So again from experience, from conversation, one of the problems we have and in the judiciary, in the criminal system, is psycho-social treatment, so it wouldn't be safe to have more resources and that's why I'm staying with my amendment. This is also the last amendment I suggested. Of course, none of them have been accepted, I didn't expect it, but I hope that your colleagues, the respected ministers, with whom I can say that I do work very well, have heard some of it all, and that the proposals that we, from the SDP Club, have tried to improve the budget in this way, implement in some other ways and use at least part of the proposals that went in the best way to ensure better quality items in the field of special education, health, social and this case of justice. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107397	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic, I thank Mr. Bošnjakovic's Justice Minister for showing the amendments, thank you very much. We move on to the amendments to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2019. I welcome the esteemed Secretary of State, Maria Shiljeg. The amendment of a respected colleague, Sinish Hajdash Doncic, and a colleague of Mark Vesligaj. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107398	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept this amendment. As part of the activities of the administration of the management of the Croatian Waters Sub-group 323 expenditure on services, which is the cost of running and directing costs necessary for the operation of the regular operation of the plan and the need at the level of 2018. Furthermore, at the position of K2062 skating, the amount of 50 million kuna is the amount of co-financing of skating operations under the implementation activities of the units of local self-government and according to projects, acts and permits based on the rules on which skating is carried out, we therefore consider that the estimated amount for 2019 is sufficient since the financial plan of the Croatian Waters and for 2020 and for 2021 the planned amount of d 50 million kuna, which will allow for the co-financing of gliding sites to be co-financed by Croatian waters in total amounting to 150 000 kunas in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107399	Thank you. My dear colleague, Marco Vesligai, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107400	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's a greeting to the secretary of state, I cannot agree with you that this amount of 50 million is sufficient, of course, I welcome the opening of this item, in fact one transfer that took place from the Environment and Croatian Roads Fund that already existed items for the rescue of the rink but it is not enough. Only in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County where this problem is so systematically a glider I am sure, the most pronounced in the area of the Republic of Croatia despite the fact that perhaps these skating sites have not received media treatment as they have received perhaps in some parts of the Republic of Croatia. The damages have been estimated at 112 million kunas to a total of 350 rinks and I must say that the new ones, unfortunately, appear every year. So, if the new slides didn't show up for that, it would take us three years to get them out, and I'm sure there will be more. I'll tell you here's an example from your town, from the town of Pregrada, 358 rinks, a total of 12 million kunas are estimated damages with at least one 4 to 5 new skates showing up each year. So I speak only for the Krapina-Zagorian County, the data at the country level is much, much higher. If we want to keep our lives in these rural areas di di most of the gliding area, I believe that these 30 million that I am sure can be found in the budget of Croatian waters or can be found through some additional means that will provide the Government of the Republic, we can still give a stronger message and run a stronger cycle in the recovery of the glider that I once again repeat, which is necessary to maintain life and that actually people at the most who live, I am speaking from the aspect of Krapina-Zagorje County, of course live on the hills, stay there and actually live there and that this infrastructure is being rehabilitated in this way. Here's the vote I'm asking for on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107401	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vesligai, and I thank the Secretary of State for showing about the amendments. We are moving on to the amendments to the Croatian Roads' financial plan, and I welcome the respected Minister, Mr. Oleg Butkovic. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted for the reason why a study on the feasibility of improving the transport connection of Korčula and Peljesac is under way, following the production of this study, will take place in further project documentation activities, so that the project is planned but this means proposed and could not be spent next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107403	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107404	Minister, here after the government's meetings and numerous promises, numerous projects, many billions in Dalmatia, we see now in Zagreb, we see that you have deceived people. I'm sorry there aren't any of your HDZ colleagues, and even a man who's president of the Korcula club, they're empty benches, to see what you're saying, to see the truth. But it's possible that Dalmatia deserves no serious project, you're just calling on the Peljega Bridge that's been mentioned for 30 years? Dal' deserves the plan of building state roads into the budget to include the Orebić bypass for which Croatia's roads have reached a solution on 29 August 2011 on the acceptability of the procedures for the environment, to perform additional works and more precise positioning of the route and to request a local and construction permit. Croatia... The roads are reconsidering new solutions, always the same story, so you've been misleading that people from Dalmatia for 10 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this case, this tour of Orebic. And I can't believe it. Here it is now for Dubrovnik County, the unretvainable Dubrovnik County. If no amendment had been accepted, no MP from those parts at this time the ruling majority would have been here the whole time. Not one. I can't believe they absolutely don't care and where they are now, it's gonna be that they just stopped down by the road di, on Klis, on the roasted lamb, on the... They are, so where are they? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where are your ministers, those ministers, those MPs who walk in the field and lie, deceive people, where are they? Look at them right here. Find them. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107405	I thank my esteemed colleague Bull. We move on to the 2nd amendment of respected counterpart Ante Pranic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107406	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted, this project is being prepared to apply funding from EU funds. The plan is designed and envisaged studies of the feasibility of improving the transport connections of the island of Hvar, Poljica, Sucuraj, Drvenik, Ravča knot. The study will explore possible variable solutions and make a recommendation to the most profitable after which an environmental impact study will be carried out on the most cost-effective proposed solution, which is the next step in the development of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107407	Thank you. Dear colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107408	... For 13 years, we've been listening to the same story, for 13 years, we've been lied to absolutely and deceived, no matter what color the government is. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] In 2005, you have an agreement of the Croatian Roads and Highways where exactly the Ravca-Drvenik node is listed as being built in 2008 by our esteemed fellow parliamentary representative, Mr. Bačić, opened works on the same stock, in 2009 in one part, along with several highly positioned people from HDZ. You have a second change in the location permit of the same project, the power of February 2017, meaning the second change. You have signed a memorandum of 20 units of local self-government, the County of Split-Dalmatia County that highlights the importance of this project. With this project you solve absolutely all traffic jams from the ferry port of Split because you activate the ferry port of Drvenik. The man with Hvar along the existing Sucuraj-Drvenik ferry line with this road is on the highway in 30 minutes, connecting the western Hercegovina with the Makarska coast, triggering the meaning of the eastern part of the island of Hvar. If this value of the project is about 850 million kuna, through an investment in the tourism of that one part, South Macarska Primorje, eastern Hvar, part of Korčula, Za-Biokovlje, this investment would very much be paid off. You have one neighbouring tunnel, Zagvozd-Baška Voda, which is without any priority built before this project and now what makes me the most sad, is the joints on the highway where you quote the Kozjak tunnel again, I absolutely have nothing against it, but tell me by what priorities this project is more important than this project that has changed the locational complete project documentation? Why before the design again? We made fun of that before the designs for 13 years, and every time elections come, people come to Vrgorac, they promise, not only to Vrgorac, but to southern Makarska, Primorje, and there's nothing from that project, as we now see. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107409	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague Pranic. We're moving on to the third amendment of the esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107410	The amendment shall not be accepted for the same reason as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107411	Thank you. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107412	Mr. Minister, when you rejected Mr. Pranic's amendment, I thought you rejected him because he suggested too little money, not because of what you said. So, usually projects go like this, something is promised, then a study is done, then a contract is signed, and then the contract ends, and then the ceremony opens. And in the tunnel, in the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel, it goes like this, first the agreement is signed, then it is solemnly bound to be finished, then the works are officially opened, then after seven years it goes to Split for a session of the government, to donate the project, and now the study is being prepared. And that lasts 13 years. Mr. Pranic, when you explained 20 units of local self-government, you were a little imprecise, so 15 units of local self-government from Croatia, and 5 commissioners from Bosnia and Herzegovina. And this is 5 heads of Citluk, Ljubuski, Grude, Capljina and Široki Brijeg, plus Za-Biokovlje, Makarska Primorje, Hvar island, Korcula and Pelješac peninsula. So this is a project that has some general agreement that needs to be made, the general agreement that it is a useful project and the general agreement that for a part of the Macarian coast this project was even more important than this tunnel, the Zagvozda-Bazka Water tunnel, because they have a 15km-long connection to the Hole, let's say, here we have to go all the way around the Ploč, maybe 30 or 35km, therefore Mr. Minister, I'm looking for a vote this year, and we're not going to talk about this project for a long, long time, here 13 years to get a study and an application of money for the EU after two, three openings, it's not a bad result. I think this is gonna be a record. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107413	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We're moving on to the Fourth Amendment of Honored Representative Mira Bulj. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107414	The amendment is not accepted. At this point, the procurement process for the production of an environmental impact study is through the implementation of the Environmental Acceptability Decision for the Dicma Project, and on the other hand it is not possible to reduce the planned funding for co-financing of the County Road Administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107415	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107416	If it wasn't sad, it would be funny. The joint on the Kukozovac-Krisice highway has been mentioned for years and is very important for the Cetinski area, which is by the number of inhabitants larger than Ličko-Senj County, I will always repeat it, and on the surface of Međimurje County. She's isolated. This road would be a compound, would become a suburb of Split, Sinj would at that moment, and since that pool, there are 300,000 inhabitants, Split, would be the suburb of Split. And then you promise in 2016, a little under pressure, there'll be feasibility studies, and you choose a variant, and then you promise, you, in County, as you promise, by 2019 it'll start to build. So tell me honestly, we don't have any money. We don't have any money, folks. Don't lie. Why? Because of what is on the government in Split, the project was listed, but they were missing, said Križice-Krivodol, one 70km or 120 was missing, depending on this Krivodol on the Croatian side or in Bosnia. They even missed the name, and then you sent Mr. Poož to the thematic session, and the projects are slower than the snails, which simply man didn't know what he was going to say. So you lie, deceive that people. You are orderly on the arrivals of Sinjska Alk, on Vrgoračka days of prosciutto, there is significant you from the Government neat and sweep those tables, which has a place, and it pays naturally from the budget city pay citizens. And look at the Wooden, seven times so far, Ravca opens up. The union of Sinj on the highway, that is, the Cetina provinces, not Sinja, so 20 years of butter, lying, misleading, the same thing was done by Arsen Bauk, before he came down, when I was doing protests. You lie and cheat. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107417	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 5th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107418	The amendment is not accepted. Project documentation for the tour project is under way... on the other hand, it is not possible to reduce the planned co-financing of the County Road Administrations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107419	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107420	I have to, and last year, on this amendment I proposed, for, the development of the Drniš area is a necessary merger on the highway, because the Drniš area is the largest demographic fall, it has along with Knin and parts of the Dalmatian mountain as well as the municipalities in, the former municipalities of Drniš. It's easy to understand that this area that's been damaged by the war, that no one thinks this construction process should be initiated, i.e. The construction of the 4 million kuna is not a large amount if this area had a combined road to A1, it would also be a demographic measure because that proximity would also allow the flow of people and goods, the economy would be revitalised, and perhaps affect demographic likely indicators that have recently been devastating. You're insinuating it's a unfortunately dead town, Drain's end. 2/3 of Croatia are absolutely like this, but in this case I am talking about the Dalmatian Zagora. And that you can't invest in Dalmatia in this project documentation of 4 million kunas. The Dalmatian Zagora is an area from Krka to Neretva. In five years, 26,000 people left. 26,000 people, mostly young. Don't you want to invest? You don't care? You speak nicely, you have a good PR, you have a good prime minister who's put all this together well with teleopers who pull out money and no one can answer, and you don't answer me. Dinastija Misetić manages it below, while Drniš, Knin, Sinj, Vrgorac and the entire 2/3 of Croatia are extinct. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107421	I thank my esteemed colleague, Miri Bulju. We're moving on to the 6th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107422	This amendment is also not accepted because the implementation study of the planned Zagvozd-Imotski road is under way and the funds and activities that will be available in 2019 are sufficient to continue the activities around this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107423	I thank the minister. Dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107424	Really Minister, it's like you ate that old tape and the same tape is spinning, so you said last year, always designing. They used to launder money by painting tunnels, now designing. How many projects do you do for the same projects? Every year, money for projects. So last year he said you were doing projects, now you're doing projects again. Do you wash that money? Do you have accounts from these projects, can you show us these projects? Because you told us the same story about this very important project. Imotski-Zagvozd, a very important project, for the property and hinterland of Herzegovina that emigrates mainly this part of Herzegovina, a little lower down, this vice president of yours, i.e. Vice-President of our Parliament Miljan Brkic, he could explain to you how much it would mean a date on Imotski for the region and for Hercegovina. But nobody cares. The diaspora's diaspora MPs, from Imotska krajina, I cannot understand, are really so hungry that they have to hurry so much to roasted lamb today when the most important document is being discussed. And that's why you don't vote on this document today. Well, the Real estate, 70% of people are less than 90s. space dead, not just state territory, territory and people, traffic infrastructure, the only thing that rushes trucks, I've seen, mostly county roads of which... Money when the election is and the campaign is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We've got exactly the villages, you can see the layers of asphalt. But you don't have strategic projects, not asphalting around... for the votes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Imotically deserves this date and all the centers in Dalmatia burn down on the highway, otherwise that highway is isolated by the Dalmatian Zagora. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107425	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the next amendment of dear colleague Mira Bulj, please welcome Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107426	This amendment is also not accepted. Project documentation is under way to build a tour of the city of Knin and on the other hand it is not possible to reduce the planned funding for co-financing of the county road administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107427	I thank the minister. Dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107428	So, come on, tell us who this document maker is, how many files are you making? So we're looking in the budget for what's not in the budget. You don't have that money in your budget in this section of the road, and you're making documentation. You made it last year and this year, and it really reminds me of the coloring of the tunnel. Every year you make documentation and the paperwork is approved, but we don't see it in the budget, so don't deceive those people. Knin is a symbol of resistance, Knin is the pride of Croatia and I believe that the relationship towards this end is mainly not at the level of Knin, I have given other amendments to this area, but these compounds and these roads are important to the city of Knin because faster traffic, there would be more people and goods. I don't think I know the reasons for boycotting these parts, 2/3 that are extinct, I'm going to point out again, it's not just the Dalmatian Zagora sky and Herzegovina and parts of Bosnia where the Croats live in the background, that it's empty territory, that there's no strategic plan for the survival of these people, the infrastructure projects that would sustain these people. We've already given you 60 amendments, you haven't accepted one, and you don't care if you haven't read it. You simply said, we're doing project documentation, so you're still painting tunnels, doing project documentation, but the people will pay you big, eventually. And you will be Mr. Oleg Butkovic responsible for evicting the people. You're not just going to the prime minister... I don't know what these lobbies are, who they are, what dynasties they run in telecommunications, is it Misetic or who you, you know well. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you'll be responsible in that case, too. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107429	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 8th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107430	This amendment is not accepted either. The plan is to study the feasibility of achieving links between the functional region of southern Dalmatia and the network network of the Republic of Croatia on the move from the Ploče node to the future Pelješac bridge. On the other hand, it is not possible to reduce expenditure at the position of K2104 refurbishment of the rolling stock because this is about the means provided for the procurement of a special vehicle intended for road inspection with the aim of resuscitating dangerous places on state roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107431	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107432	When I go down the Neretva Valley, so when I see how poorly connected the infrastructure is, when I go down towards Metkovic, when I see, the code is the goat's path. So much trouble, come from the highway down, I can't, you can't believe, I don't know who went down, what it looks like. And your problem is again for project documentation to allocate for that part of the money, but that's how much you hate the Republic of Croatia, is it just your arm on the heart, and you hate the Republic of Croatia. Look, it's possible, it's not there, it's empty, your benches are empty, there's no MPs of yours, they went home, they don't care who's taking you out on the ground, they're lying, they're cheating. And Metković and Neretvanska Valley deserve a ride, you are Dalmatia, you do not accept any project for that part, you do not accept for Slavonia, you do not accept for Gorski Kotar, for the whole area of Brdsko-Molineski, for the assisted areas because you do not care, in terms of transport infrastructure as very important for these people, very important infrastructure project, so neither children's kindergartens nor schools nor free textbooks, do you have an amendment, you did not accept it. Metkovic and Neretva Valley were forgotten by the minister of traffic. For what? You probably know the reasons, you'll love the Republic too much, and you don't like that town, it's not your heart. Why don't you design that road? Is the road not in good shape? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107433	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, I ask you not to demean or insult anyone, for you are not a measure of patriotism, nor are you more patriot than any of us, and please do not speak in such a manner and in such a dictionary in this high House. We move on to the 9th Amendment of Honored Representatives Vesna Bedekovic, respected colleague Josip Djakic, respected counterpart Vladimir Bilek and respected colleague Zeljko Lackovic, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is accepted in the amended form, so that the proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021, in the light of the specific part of K2004, the rapid road construction and reconstruction programme for the project DC10 Podravski ipslon, the Kloštar Vojakovci and Križevci and the state road 12, the Farkaševac section - Bjelovar total estimated value of 549 million kuna changes the planned start of the work from 2020 in 2019 and provides additional funding of EUR 37 million for the realization in 2019. At the same time, plans for realisation are reduced in 2019 under the K2004 programme of construction, reconstruction of fast roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107435	Thank you, dear colleague Lackovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107436	I thank the Vice President, the Honorable Minister, I see that it's really not easy for you, so we don't fall on the continent because we say we don't have a highway, you have to see us, you have to understand us. On the other hand, where the road car came from, everyone says why we're not attached to the highway, we have that right, it's demographic measures. What is the beginning of the work on Podravski Ipsilon, moved to 2019 with 37 + previously 340 million kuna secured is a guarantee to all residents of Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska County, Koprivnica-križevnica and Virovitica-Podravska that the stock and the secured funds in the announcement for 2020 of 549 million kuna will be realised and that we can expect, therefore, to connect with Podravski ipslon which also started 10 years ago, and this amended Amendment on behalf of counterpart Bedekovic, colleagues Djakić and colleagues of Bilek will accept and we believe that on your side the day as much as possible. Perhaps for comparison because it is about the importance of every road that is sought and its modernization that this Podravska stock and D2 and the road from Križevci to Koprivnica and according to Virovitica is one of the most deadly because there are sometimes more people dying in one month than, for example, in Dalmatia throughout the year. We thank you once again for respecting the Amendment and we want to see these, in 2020, 549 million kuna, and we believe that one day we will come to ask to connect to that road with the surrounding cities and municipalities, as requested by fellow bridgemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107437	Thank you. So we find that you accept the amended Amendment in this form as the minister has suggested. We're moving on to the 10th Amendment Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists Bridge, here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107438	The amendment is not accepted. The Croatian Road Company planned for 2019, 2020, 2021 plan the funds for the construction of the right and shares of Sisak-Sisak knots according to the planned dynamic plan for the implementation of works.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107439	Thank you. Here you go. The 10th Amendment. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107440	So no amendment for Sisak was accepted. I'll ask for a vote even though that knot has been promising for years. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107441	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 11th Amendment of Honored colleague Stephen Curaj, who withdrew the Amendment. So we're going to the 12th Amendment, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please welcome the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107442	The amendment is not accepted. The procurement process is under way for the production of project documentation for the fast road Požega-Staro Petrovo Selo, and the further course of the project will take place according to the planned dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107443	I thank the minister. I see the promoter is gone, so we'll vote on the amendment. We're moving on to the 13th Amendment, dear colleagues of the Sun Glavak, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107444	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107445	Thank you. It's becoming an integral part. We're moving on to the 14th Amendment of our esteemed colleague, Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107446	And this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107447	I thank you for becoming an integral part of it. We move on to the 15th Amendment of Honored colleague Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107448	The amendment is not accepted. Item A 1000 administration management refers to the costs of regular business of the Croatian road company which cannot be reduced in the proposed amount of 40 million kn. At the moment is the development of project documentation in progress for the project... intersections of the state road DC8, DC512 and the county road 6197 in Makarska and for the reconstruction of the state road 512 shares of Donja Gora-Ravca length 14,657 km. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After making the project documentation... will be the process of obtaining the performance of the works. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107449	Thank you, dear colleague Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So the initiative of the towns of Vrgorac, Makarska, Podgora and Tuče and transfer... for 2018 it is directed towards the Ministry of the Sea, Maritime and Infrastructure, and Croatian Roads. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We received a response on 10 October 2018 signed by the State Secretary, Mr Tomislav Mihotic, that the project was running for the period 2019. I emphasized a month ago, through a multi-duration of circumstances, one man almost died because of a dive on the part of the state road. The state road is a merger of all western Herzegovina, Vrgorca, with Makarska and the southern part of the Makarska coast. You don't need to design yourself, like you said, the projects are over, I've seen them myself. So I was personally on the Croatian roads in Split and I personally saw all the necessary project documentation. I really don't know that we're being told here in this Visko Home that some things are being designed when the projects are over. For the project this, in particular 40 million kn, public procurement can be opened next month. And the process will go into the construction process, and I'm telling you that, well, the other God himself and fortunately, there was no death, because of the slopes that were common on that national road, because of the part that was extremely unfavourable for traffic. It is the road lifeline of the housewives, connecting for Biokovo and Makarska coast, not to mention that it is a kind and road traffic bypass, the entire southern part of the Makarska coast that uses the road, calling with the highway A1 knot Ravča because of all the crowds that occur through Makarska and part of Baska water, due to the Baška Voda-Zagvozd road. I don't understand your message, in terms of the pay phone, and the letter of the Secretary of State, which says it will be realised in 2019. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107451	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pranjic. We're moving on to the 16th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107452	The amendment is not accepted. The public procurement process is under way for the construction of a project documentation for the reconstruction of the state road 1 of the 7 km section, covering the area of Otišić, paragraph A 1000 of the management administration, concerns the costs of the regular operation of the Croatian road company, which cannot be reduced in the proposed amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107453	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107454	D1 state road D1 crossing from Split to Knin, where it is a very significant road, is mainly this traffic significant because of the Maslenica Bridge, when the Maslenik Bridge is closed, all traffic is rerouted to that road road state road D1. It is life-threatening, mainly in these parts, through Otitisic towards Vrlica. You're still saying you're planning this. Why don't you put that in the budget when you're planning to? Last year you said you were planning. So you've been out a thousand times in public and in the media, down local politicians to plan and design it. I can't accept that you don't want to put this amount in the budget, and that road, for safety's sake, is primarily a state road no. 1 Split-Zagreb, next to Lake Peru through... That area is dangerous, it's a critical point of traffic accidents I think has the most, one of the largest numbers in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So already when you haven't accepted these dates on the highway, at least for a little project and edit this road di are critical points. Because you plan and come down before the election that you have planned. When the election's over, then you'll plan again. I'm asking for it to be done, that's the people that deserve it down there. It's a minimum. He doesn't deserve thermal power plants, dangerous damage in Peru, but to have a normal roadway, to have the possibility of education, to have children's kindergartens, emergency care, hospitals, health homes, but there's nothing down there. I can't figure it out. Here you are the minister of the design project, and Kalmeta was the minister of tunnel painting. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107455	Thank you. We're moving on to 17 amendments to a respected colleague of Mira Bulj, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107456	The amendment is not accepted, in the financial plan of the Croatian Roads d.o.o. For the year 2019, investment maintenance and reconstruction of state roads are provided for funds to rebuild the stakes to D60 and D2020 through 3. The only solution and environmental impact study for the road is also under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107457	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107458	I think this amount... We know that from Kamenska to Trilj, that it is the same road that is very important, and Trilj is a city that passes this busy state road and that road is quite burdened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the people of Lebanon, Homeland, ie. Tomislav City, most... The income of Trilja on that road, either on the highway, to Capporica either towards Sinj or via Masla towards Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see any reason for this to be left out and for this road to expand because it's a dangerous road, too, there's a lot of critical points, a lot of bandages that are immeasurable, and we know there's a border crossing up there. I therefore see no reason and because of the people in the Lithuanian area, the Danube area i.e. Tomislavgrada, and mainly from the landscape, from the Trilj hinterland, the pedestals, as the border crossing, cross the pedestals, are very dangerous. There are winter conditions, since the mountainous area is long, there is transit traffic across that border crossing and I don't think this is a good move and I expected Mayor Šipic to put pressure on you ministers because you often... I see a fellow Shile down in Trill, and I think this problem will be solved, I see that it often spins down... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] so you think they'll be solved, here's what I'm sorry about now that my colleague Šipic is not here, but here I think he's going to vote for this budget that solves one of the bigger problems of the Trile area, the Cetin area, the Lithuanian neighborhood, the Danube area and, in essence, the border crossing and those who drive there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, again, to point out that my colleague is not a Parliamentarian of the Cetina region has given support to this and to get this into the budget, but I expect it to be on the budget. I'm asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107459	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 18th Amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107460	The amendment is not accepted. The company of the Croatian Roads makes an idea solution and an environment protection laboratory for the DC60 road to DC1 at the location of Turjaci-Kukuzovac. It is not possible to reduce the expenditure at the position of K2014 refurbishment of the rolling stock. The funds are intended for the procurement of a special vehicle intended for road inspection with a view to the resolution of dangerous places on state roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107461	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107462	One of the major traffic and transits, the traffic of the number of vehicles is via the Trill that goes on... It's through the Turks, there's plenty of traffic accidents, and it's stifling traffic, and it's causing a lot of traffic, mainly in the mornings, but also in the time of tourism on the Masla where it turns left for Trilj and BiH and straight towards Split, according to the Kukuzovci. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this move from Koshut to Kukuzovac and we already have a road that owns the town of Sinj through the area of Kukuzovac, the zone would be important, the area would be reduced to 6 km of people coming from the direction of Capurica from the highway and from the direction of Kamenska on Trilj and Triljani itself, 6 km of course would be shorter, there would be no traffic through the village of Turjak and there would be no crowds of Brnaza on the Masla where the crossing of D60 and D1, one huge problem and a huge one plug. I think this is a very important project for traffic safety, traffic relief, the importance of being given to the Kukuzovac and Capurica zones in Trilje, and I also expect my fellow MPs who in these full benches are left behind here to support, that the cup for this amendment is, I told him, and I expect him to support it, that all MPs,... from the IX, the Xth electoral unit and also from the diaspora because this is also related to Croatians in Herceg Bosnia and Herzegovina. in BiH and will support this amendment, I expect the opposition to support this amendment because this is a matter both of security and of road development. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I know... I also pushed that part to go into the project, but this is slow, this is a permanent solution to the problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107463	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 19th Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulj, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107464	The amendment is not accepted. The reason is, the construction permit for the reconstruction of the intersection DC1 with the Road Market in Sinj is under way and the project is in the plan of the Croatian Roads. On the other hand, it is not possible to reduce expenditure at K2014’s place of reconstruction of the rolling stock because the funds are provided for the procurement of a special vehicle intended for road inspection with a view to the resolution of dangerous places on state roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107465	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107466	One of the major problems on the state road D1 and in the town of Sinj are crowded because the state road D1 passed through Sinj and these are mostly in the summer times, for the days of the Alks, the Great Lady, in those times there is a huge crowd, and in the mornings when children go to school and, of course, when people go in the morning towards Split. We've got a D1 crossing to the cattle market. According to the military where the military is now, where there is an untransparent plug and I know about this project because I'm on the board, however, it's just the story of the project. With these means proposed, we would essentially enter the stage so that it could be planned, that it could be started with construction. This roundabout is the solution to one of the problems that lies in the very heart of the city of Sinj, and then I will say in my explanation and other problems that occur in the very heart of the city of Sinj, because I think it's a minimum of what has to be done and solved with a few of these things because if you haven't accepted a single amendment on a quick road merger so I don't believe you'll do anything, or when the elections are held, you'll still come down, Minister, and you'll say, here's how you say,... We'll do something for this people. This people deserve to run here. It's good to be in a garland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, I don't think you're going to behave like that, and here I completely doubt that you're going to behave like that, that you're going to look at that neighborhood and say that it deserves certain projects, you think it's one, it's not too much, this is the minimum that deserves that area, the city of Sinj, here, thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107467	Thank you. We're moving on to the 20th amendment of the esteemed colleague Mira Bulj, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107468	The amendment is not accepted because the planned reconstruction of the intersections of Vukovar Street and the Street of Buljana and Matic in the town of Sinj, on the other hand, is not possible to reduce the expenditure at the position of K2014 refurbishment of the rolling stock.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107469	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107470	So, Croatian roads have made a circular flow in Vukovar Street, it's an old state road D1, where we have a huge problem, we have a nearby high school center, a hotel, we have a hotel, so there's a center, this, sale and morning crowds are huge. But what's the problem? We have a circular flow with pedestrian crossings and it was like the gift of the Croatian roads to the town of Sinju, where Alka is located in the center of that circular stream, I believe that soon there will be a Vodotoran of Vukovar, so that it will be called Vukovar Street, however, the problem is what when we need to solve the problem of pedestrians being, that they have a place to go, not a walking pass, a traveler. So, is it creating giant and crowded plugs, being up to a few to the Croats, being, uh, car traffic columns, mostly in the mornings because there's a school, there's a hotel, Alkar and I think in this year you might be able to solve it, I believe that by Alka you'll get rid of it, and yet you have European elections and it's significant, so at least here, here's the thing, you make at least that, uh, the traveler that people can go through, and that they can traffic and it's dangerous to live, there has to be the police all the time. So we have pedestrian crossings in the city center, on a very important road, on the number one state road. The Croatian roads gave this as a gift to the town of Sinj, but they did not do a whole number of projects, because it was more flow traffic while it was a traffic light, but now that the circular flow with a walking crossing is. I expect minimal support from her, minimum, all of it, my fellow parliamentary representatives from those parts, and I'm sorry you didn't support her, although I hope you'll change your mind by Alka. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107471	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We're moving on to the 21st Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulja, please welcome Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107472	The amendment is not accepted. With the plan to study the justification of the connection of Vučevica knot, the state road DC8 ferry port Split. Article A1000 of the Management Administration refers to the costs of the regular operation of the Croatian Road Company which cannot be reduced in the proposed amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107473	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107474	Is the tunnel an amendment, Nisan. So I see, that's the main problem, even the mayor announced and at the government it was in Split that there would be a tent here, I didn't do anything else, but what we in the county assembly in the county of the government are talking about. So the wolf tunnel, we gave me the amount because there's no amount in the budget. So, we just gave that part up as an amendment and I don't believe it's such a hoax and a scam, I thought you were mistaken, so you didn't bring it in. Is the main promotion was the Split-Dalmatia mayor, Prime Minister Plenkovic and your government, that tunnel. And now you can't get off this part, you can't get off that part. Remove from where you want to go, and fill out what you said you had secured at the government in Split. All these projects I'm talking about right now, you said you secured money in the government of Split. You're the only one who forgets it quickly. You remember, but you are aware that you will soon forget it because of the full information, the forest of information, from one tree you can't see the forest. And you're aware and you play that card and every four years the same letters, the same tape spins. I'm looking for a vote and I expect this to pass, but these are the main projects that, or the mayor will bring a tent here, uh, protest, camp in front of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107475	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 22nd Amendment of Honored colleague Mira Bulja, please welcome Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107476	The amendment is not accepted. About the reconstruction of the state road Sinj-Knin in the area of Croatia-Potrava-Otješić, the Croatian roads in the financial plan for 2019 have the means to create project documentation for the construction of the tourniquet at the primary school in Croatia and tendering is under way for the construction of the footing through Croatia and the public procurement process is under way for the construction of the project documentation for the reconstruction of the state road 1, Vrlika-Satrić section of 7 km, which includes the area of Otišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107477	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107478	Here's another one for me, Minister. I'll take a look. Here's two more amendments. Here's the last one for me. So, it's all settled, right, except we don't see the bottom machines, baggers and people. Same as last year. In the last budget, you repeated the same story. I was expecting a minimum that you'd make some kind of shift. I said a little when I said that, uh, you're designing, just projects, mildly projected bureau, how many projects there are, how much of this building is where these projects are, is it supposed to stop, I'm doing it a little picturesquely, is it, is it fact, just repeat from year to year projects, designing, but it's not flexible, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's not, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it' it's just, it' it's just, it's just, it's just, it' it' it' it' it's just, it' it' it's just, it' it's just, it's just, it' it' it's just, it's just, it' it' it's just, it' it' it' it' it' it's just, it's just, it' it' it' it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, it' it's just, it's just, it' it' it's just, it' it' it's just, it' it' it' it's just, it' it' it' it's just, it's just, it' it' it' it' it' it' it's just, it' it' it' it's We expect to solve the problem, no licenses, I mean, it's all on the story, it stays. I'm asking for a natural vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107479	Thank you. We move on to the next Amendment No. 23 esteemed colleagues of Mira Bulj, please be my guest Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107480	The amendment is not accepted. The work on reconstruction of the state road DC 33 in Drniš is under way with the construction of the legpost, the coastal drain and public lighting and the construction of project documentation for the reconstruction of the state road DC 33 shares of Knin-Drniš length 20 km.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107481	I thank the minister. Dear fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107482	I don't know, Minister, you're taking the highway, driving you, do you know what it looks like when you haven't given a date on the highway, it looks like a road from Knin to Drnish. Well, it's big... The biggest maester I don't know could pass an incredible road. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] With a little bit of your will, Drnis-Knin would be much better and faster, but apparently this road suits you, it pleases you that these people are disabled from normal traffic, normally living in those parts and I'm disappointed, here. 60 amendments for people, I gave myself 20, we all gave 60. I can't believe you didn't accept any amendment from the Minister in the region of Dalmatia, Slavonia, mostly mountainous and undeveloped areas. And not just you, but nobody cares. It's important to come Monday to have a majority, to vote the budget and move on. Well, for kindergarten, you can't provide these funds, the smallest children in kindergartens have the least chance in the Republic of Croatia, at least in percent. Free textbooks you lied to people, I gave the amendment, the first amendment that was submitted here, it was an amendment that I gave both this year and last year. So your areas are empty; two-thirds of Croatia are empty. Well, this is all gone. I was going to say what I'm not going to say earlier. This is unserious, this is nakaradic. So look at the assembly benches of the majority, please, so let's look and talk about the budget, about the most important document, and you'll be when the handlifters come, the citizens who watch now if you let it be a direct transfer, I don't know, Here, let the citizens take a look. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] I ask for a vote and you from the Government of the Republic of Croatia may be ashamed of any amendment... [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107483	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We're moving on to the 24th Amendment of Honored colleague Damir Malacan. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107484	The amendment is not accepted, the project of building MOST and access roads via the Cup in Popuplje is planned on the item K2005, the other programmes of procedures on state roads. It is planned to begin the work in 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107485	Thank you. Dear fellow Mattelian, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107486	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Thank you very much, Your Honor. So the bridge in Donji Popuplje across the Kupa River is the only bridge on the 228 state road connecting Jurovski Brod, so the border, international border crossing with the Republic of Slovenia across the city of Ozlja with the county central city of Karlovac, or highway A1 and A6 respectively. With the largest number of small and medium-sized enterprises with over 2,000 employees in this south-west part of the county, the bridge is currently not capable of the transport of personal vehicles, let alone the transport of cargo vehicles, and therefore this area of the south-west area of the Carlova County, i.e. those entrepreneurs are in a very unfavourable position or very uncompetitive. So it is necessary to build that bridge in particular this southwest part of the carlovina county, the rural part of carlovakia county, but a large part of carlovica county that was the strongest in this small and medium-sized economy is still competitive in the area. I am deeply hoping that building that bridge will begin in 2019 because we have been looking for this documentation for too long. In 1909, one of the first hydrocenters in not only Croatia was built in the city of Ozla, but also in Europe, it was built in a year. The railway between Ljubljana and Karlovac was built in 1913, it was built in a year not to build something but also to find project documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107487	Okay. Thank you. Are you asking for a vote? Oh, no? ... You're not asking for a vote. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107488	I'm looking.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107489	Thank you very much. We move to the 25th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107490	The amendment is not accepted. Total planned expenditure for regular maintenance services of national roads in 2019 increased by 6.33% compared to the 2018 plan due to an increase in the network of state roads and with a view to raising maintenance standards. The planned expenses for the regular maintenance of roads and facilities amount to 420 million kuna per year for all three years of the financial plan. The damage to the stakes and rocks are regularly recovered on state roads through the aforementioned programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107491	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107492	I have to do this amendment because just when I see what the end of it is, I was there. With this amendment, we propose to provide funds for the reconstruction of the section of the Obrovac-Krushevo road. There is a total reconstruction of 2.5 thousand meters, 2.5 km of road for which 500 thousand kuna is required. Of the 500 thousand kuna for the worst demographic fall he's ever experienced, it's Obrovac. That's what you saw, follow, I don't know when you were there, I often leave. So that road is unsustained, devastated, a danger to property and people it represents a road other than a stone that no one takes care of, the ground, it's about damage to the stakes, supporting walls of the road. This stock is further a special challenge when smoking heavy storms or during rainy weather, the dives are a constant phenomenon daily, the stakes are full of holes and simply the road is not for traffic. And these 500 thousand kunas would solve that problem. To the Fighter to the Kurshev. You know what that represents, that area? Well, people are more blocked roads than they are. So is it embarrassing to say I don't accept this amendment? Well, not a single amendment, so these people have nothing to live on anyway, they're struggling to survive with their children to preserve those hearths, that space. But you just obviously don't care about that space. Why don't you care? I don't know. Why doesn't this government care about that space? They care more about moving like geese to Marrakechnego to preserve that space with our hearth, our people. I mean, I don't know, this is a disappointment to the pain, this is all going to hell, here's how you think about such small, important projects. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107493	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. We move on to the 26th Amendment of the Honored Representative of Ines Strenja. Here you are, Minister Butkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107494	The amendment is not accepted because the above-mentioned rink is not located on the state road, therefore it is not in the jurisdiction of the Croatian road company d.o.o.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107495	Thank you, dear colleagues of Ines Strenja, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107496	I'm sorry you didn't accept any of the 64 amendments submitted by the MOST Club, but I'm going to repeat here the amendment we asked for, which we've asked for 27 million kunas to resuscitate the Lopaca Hospital, a psychiatric hospital that is completely cut off without that road and drive to it for 45 minutes across the Gravefield. It is also a key road for all inhabitants of the Gravefield, and in fact it is only 1270 meters from it is 300 meters from the municipality of Jelenje, and 970 from the area of Rijeka. It's crucial to the citizens, the hospital is crucial to its operation, and that's why we've been looking for a rescue of the 27 million kuna ice skating site. I'm sorry you didn't hear about that. But you didn't hear, and you just removed my amendment that was for 3 million kunas secured for the parking of KBC Split, KBC Split, which was completely disabled in a quality way access to people with disabilities, women, children, all those who need help in KBC. We know what a traffic problem is in Split itself, a parking problem, and we were just looking for 3 million kunas to make project technical documentation for that parking lot. Here are all yours, there's a complete vertical and city and county and the state needs to secure those funds that doctors don't ask for an hour's parking to come and nurses to their jobs, but also patients. It was important for them, I am sorry that the amendment was not even included because Split did not deserve it and all citizens who are being treated there. I'm sorry that you haven't heard from any of the 64 amendments submitted by MOST, but citizens hear this, citizens have seen we have tried to pawn for all parts of Croatia because we know that the problem is very much, and you have felt only for some of your own who have bought your fields further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107497	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ines Strenja. We move on to the 27th Amendment, a respected colleague of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic and colleagues of Mark Velligay. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment is not accepted. From 2012 to today, the length of the network of state roads through public road classification decisions has been increased by about 560 km for which it is necessary to ensure an adequate volume of investment maintenance works. Since we have provided an additional 200 million kuna in 2 years for the work of the bile, initiatives are also being considered to find new sources of funding in the coming period, which would, among other things, aim to co-finance the county road administrations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107499	Thank you, dear fellow Vesligai, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107500	Thank you, dear fellow Vesligai, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107501	Thank you, dear fellow Vesligai. We move on to the 28th Amendment, a respected colleague of Sinisha Hajdas Doncic and colleagues of Mark Vesligaj. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107502	The amendment is not accepted, for the same reason as, for the same reasons as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107503	Thank you, esteemed colleague Marko Vedligaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107504	So here I can say that they are actually for unclassified roads, or these are the funds used for winter service. So, they got units that had mountain-mounted status and that amount was 10 million kuna. Through this, me and my colleague, Hajdash Doncic, through this amendment, we propose to raise that amount to 30 million kuna, given that the unit of local self-government that will enter the mountainous and mountainous areas is increasing. I must tell you that in the area of Krapina-Zagorian County, local units had, my colleague Bulj, I would only ask if I can finish. So only in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County had last year units of local self-government costs for winter service 6 million kunas higher than the planned funds, and only 5 that were once in the status of the mountain-mounted area received some assistance from the Croatian road. With this amount, with this amount, we are actually correcting one injustice towards the units of local self-government, and I think that those who will not enter this range of mountain-mounted areas, and they have low fiscal capacity should get help for the winter service, and we know that winters are sometimes very sharp, we do not know what this will be, but this amount can certainly be given the budget of the Croatian roads, given that our state budget is naturally possible, I can assure myself. And what I would still like to say just for the end of the word, I am sorry that here is no amendment accepted, one comment actually on the budget of the Croatian roads I hope are these investments that are planned for Krapina-Zagorje County and I see actually through this whole plan of Croatian roads I see one slowdown and, let's say for the fast road Popovac, Marija Bistrica, Zlatar Bistrica, Zabok is envisaged, but in the period 19-21, for others, fast roads are not, it is similar for the state road Zabok-Krapino, there is no state road Kumrovec-Zagorska Villages, as well as the Pregrad-Hum on Sutli, and I believe that this will still succeed in achieving, that there will be no congestion. I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107505	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, dear fellow Vesligai. We move to the 29th Amendment of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107506	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107507	Thank you, it becomes an integral part of the budget. We move to the 30th Amendment, the GLS and HSU Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107508	The amendment is not accepted. The correct name of the project is State Road 10. Podravski ipilon Vrbovec-Križevci-Koprivnica-border of the Republic of Hungary, shares Križevci-Koprivnica, subdinica Križevci-Klošar Vojakovaki. Project documentation is under way for part of the Podravski Ipsilon state road 10th, part of Klošar Vojakovci-Križevci. It is planned to begin the work according to the planned dynamics.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107509	Thank you. Since there are no proposings, we will vote on this amendment. I thank the respected Minister Oleg Butkovic for the reasons of the amendments. We move on to amendments to the Fund's financial plan for environmental protection and energy efficiency. I welcome the Secretary of State, Mr. Maria Shiljeg. First amendment of the GLS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107510	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The amendment is not accepted. Namely, the supply of tanks for separate collection of municipal waste is provided to containers whose time-limit is, in principle, not limited, the minimum guarantee is 5 years. Given the number of intended containers and their financial value, the containers supplied in this project represent long-term assets to be recorded in local self-government units’ business books. The bio-waste collection bags are consumables, and the collection of bio-degradable waste is certainly necessary, in which the waste will be delayed until their collection by the public service provider of mixed municipal bio-degradable waste, and in accordance with the decisions of the unit of local self-government on how to provide public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107511	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Since there are no proposings, we will vote on this amendment. Thanks again to the Secretary of State for the explanation. We've exhausted all the amendments with this. I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We will continue our work Monday, December 3, 2018 at 09:30, with a vote on agenda points at 09:30. Have a nice rest of the day and a nice weekend. A session interrupted at 5:51 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107512	Proposal for a State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and projection for 2020 and 2021 with proposals for financial plans outside the budget for 2019 and projection of plans for 2020 and 2021, Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation, Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is concluded. After the debate has been concluded, the Government has submitted amendments, in accordance with Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure, such amendments must be agreed by most of the present representatives. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the Government's amendments. Please, let's vote. I find that, most of the votes 81 FOR, 33 OBVI, we have reached a decision on the implementation of the debate on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's amendments, so I would like to ask the motionary's representative to explain the amendments submitted, with us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinisic, please welcome state secretaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107513	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of HS, the honourable parliamentary deputies and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 2 of the Treaty on The Rules of Procedure of the HS proposes two amendments to the proposal for a State budget for 2019 and its projections for 2020, 20121. Both amendments shall apply to the specific part of point 2 in a way that is beyond Article 2. 3. change the operating expenditure and the cost of obtaining non-financial assets allocated to users and programmes in a specific part of the budget, and all the analytically shown in the table which is an integral part of both amendments. As regards the First Amendment, a redistribution of the amount of 4 million and 100 thousand kuna is proposed in a way that reduces the funds of the Ministry of State Property and increases the resources of the Ministry of Science and Education for 2019 in the same amount, with a view to ensuring the necessary mass of funds for the work of the University and the University of Veleutuaries that are received through the competent ministry. As for the second Amendment, it also applies, as I said, to the position of the special section behind the article. 3 in a way to redistribute 14 million and 600,000 kuna by reducing the position of the Ministry of State Assets, and by increasing regional development funds and EU funds for 2019 as well. In particular, local community projects financed through a capital project called the development of assisted areas are supporting economic and social revitalisation of assisted areas and strengthening social cohesion of sustainable development. It's about smaller projects. Thank you very much. It's about the smaller one. [[/Insect: Just a little state secretary, just a little bit, colleague Beljak, I would ask you and colleague Bulj, a little quieter, it doesn't matter to me, I'm just asking you to be quiet so that a man can speak, please welcome Secretary of State.]] Therefore, it is about smaller projects of municipal and social infrastructure that cannot be financed from... [[Intruder: Here are the secretary of state, continue]] funds or other sources, which are important for equating development. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the local community's interest in implementing these kinds of projects is very high. Additional funds are provided for 2016 in the amount I mentioned 14 million and 600 thousand kuna. The proposed amendments shall not change the total amount of funds planned in the draft national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107514	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the Government's amendments, only representatives of the clubs can participate in this debate. I'm closing the debate, no one's answering, so I'm putting the first amendment of the government to the vote, please let's vote. I find that most of the votes of 89 ZA, 4 SUBSIDENTS and 10 FIGHTs, the First Amendment of the Government has been adopted, and it becomes an integral part of the proposal for a state budget. We're going to the Second Amendment of Government, please vote. I find that most of the votes of 84 ZA, 2 SUBSIDENTS and 8 votes against, the second Amendment of the Government has been adopted, and it becomes an integral part of the proposal for a state budget. We now move to a decision on the other amendments, a statement on the amendments to the proposal of the state budget and proposals for the financial plans of the extra budget beneficiaries we held at the meeting held on 30 November 2018. We are now going to vote on amendments that the Proposer does not accept. The review of the amendment you received by electronic means. I stress that we will decide only on the amendments that have been made in accordance with Article. The 38th Budget Act, so let's go in turn, here's your colleague, Jankovics. Just a little someone didn't shut down, obviously, here it is, here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107515	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club of the Labour and Solidarity Party, reformers and independent MPs, to inform you that we are withdrawing the Amendment related to the free textbooks we have submitted. It's Amendment No. 63. We withdraw it for reasons that we had additional consultations on the weekend and all that we heard and saw, invited us to believe what they said, so State Secretary Ramljak, and also the Prime Minister himself, to ensure, therefore, that through the redistribution during 2019 the funds for free textbooks and therefore we withdraw our Amendment now at the beginning that we do not have to interrupt later and, of course, we can, as far as we are concerned, if you approve, proceed immediately with the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107516	Thank you. The rules are such that the break should be, and if you agree, we can proceed immediately. Then, here you go, looking for a colleague of Grmoy and a colleague of Maras break, so I'll approve a break of 10 minutes. We'll continue at 10.36. Session interrupted at 10:28 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work, please take your seats because we are now starting to vote on amendments as well. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:39 A.M.]] The first amendment of MP Ivan Lovrinovic, the government does not accept, please let us vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendment regarding the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, MP Arsen Bauk, the government does not accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We're now going to the amendments to the government of the Republic of Croatia, that's number three. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, the government doesn't accept. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number four of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments by the finance ministry, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, Amendment number 5, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number six of the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number seven of Syniche Hajdash Doncic and Mark Vesligaj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments on the Central State Office for Croats outside Croatia, Domagoj Hajdukovic, amendment number 8, and the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments to the Central State Sport Office, Amendment 9, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 10 of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 11 of MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 12. The HSS representative club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 13. The HSS representative club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments to the Ministry of Interior, number 14, the Live Wall and SNAGA's club, the government is not accepting. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 15, attorney Arsen Bauk, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 16, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments on the Ministry of Economy, Entrepreneurship and crafts, the club of representatives of the HSS, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Number 18. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are now going to the amendments of the Ministry of Culture. Amendment number 19, MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 20, IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 21, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 22 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 23, the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 24, the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now let's go to the amendments that are related to the Ministry of Agriculture. Amendment number 25, the HSS Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 26, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 27, Agent Arsen Bauk, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 28, MOST advocates' club of independent lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are going to make amendments to the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds. Amendment number 29, MP Miro Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 30. The HSS representative club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 31. Representatives Sinisha Hajdaš Doncic and Marko Vesligaj, the government does not accept He didn't get the votes he needed. [[You're following.]] Amendment 32 was accepted and became an integral part of the budget. Amendment number 33 of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 34 of MP Ante Pranic, Government does not accept He didn't get the votes he needed. [[Intruder: Everything refuses.]] Amendment 35 of the same representative, Government accepts. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 36, MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the amendments to the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Amendment number 37, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 38, IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 38, Advocacy Club, no pardon, Amendment number 39, Advocacy Club of the HSS, the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 40, MPs Marija Alfirev and Franco Vidovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 41 of the same MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 42, again the same MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 43. again by MPs Marija Alfirev and Franco Vidovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No 44, IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 45 of the same club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 46 of the same club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 47 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 48. Again IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 49 again, the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 50, again IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 51, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 52, Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Government does not accept He didn't get the votes he needed. [[Invader: Here, Petar Škorić declined and Split.]] Amendment number 53 of the same club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we're going to the amendments to the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning. Amendment 54, IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. So we're going to the amendments to the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection. The amendment 55, once again by IDS, PGS and LRI, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. So we're going to the Ministry of Science and Education. Amendment 56, Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 57, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 58, MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Damir Tomic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 59th Amendment, Ines Strenja's representative, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 60th Amendment, representative of Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed, so let's go to Amendment 61. The GLAS and HSU representatives club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 62, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 63 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 64. The GLAS and HSU representatives club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 65 of MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 66, Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 67. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 68. The GLAS and HSU representatives club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 69 of MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 70, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 71, Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 72 of the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 73 of the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 74, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 75th Amendment of Representative Mira Bulja, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 76, Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 77 of the same representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 78, Arsen Bauk's representative, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 79th Amendment, re-legislator Arsen Bauk, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 80, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 81. The "Live Wall" and "SNAGA" club, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 82, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 83. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 84, Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 85, Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 86, same club of MPs, government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 87, MP Miro Bulj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 88, Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 89, GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 90. IDS, PGS and LRI representatives' club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. An amendment to the 91st club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. An amendment to the 92nd same club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the number of votes he needed. Amendment 92 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 93 to the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 94, again IDS-PGS-RI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 95, again the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 96, again IDS-PGS-RI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 97, same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 98, same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 99, is accepted and becomes an integral part of the budget. Amendment No. 100 MPs Martha Luc-Polanc, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 101, Attorney Gordan Maras, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 102, the Independent Lists Bridge's representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 103, Agent Ines Strenja, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 104, MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 105th Amendment, representative of Gordan Maras, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 106, IDS-PGS-RI representative club, the government does not accept. Comrade Bulj, just turn off. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 107, IDS-PGS-RI representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 108, the same club of MPs, the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 109, the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 110, MPs Domagoj Hajdukovic and Marta Luc-Polanc, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 111, Glas and HSU representatives' club, the government does not accept. The government does not accept or fail. The 112st Amendment of Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 113 of the SDP representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 114, MP Peja Grbin, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 115, the HSS representative club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 116 has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the state budget. Amendment No. 117 representatives of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 118, MPs Damir Tomic and Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 119, representatives of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Now we're going to the Amendments related to the Ministry of Labour and the Pension System. The 120th Amendment is a club of representatives of the Voice and HSU, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed, so we're going to go to those amendments that are related to the Ministry of Health. The 121st Amendment of Representative Ines Strenja, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 122, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He did not receive the required number of votes, Amendment 123, by Peja Grbina, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 124, IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. An amendment to the 125th same club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 126th Amendment of the same club of MPs, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 127, Representative Miro Bulj, Government does not accept He didn't get the votes he needed. [[There's a Veteran Hospital in Knin, but good. Not the HDZ for Knin.]] Amendment 128, Agent Ines Strenja, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 129, MP Miranda Mrsic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment 130, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the amendments to the Ministry of Demography, family, youth and social policy. The 131st amendment, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. 132. Amendment of the HSS Representatives Club, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of 133, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 134, MP Maria Alfirev, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 135, "Living Wall Representatives' Club", "The Government doesn't accept." He didn't get the votes he needed. The amendment of the 136th legislator, Zeljko Jovanovic, is not accepted by the government. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 137, the club of the MoDT advocates of independent lists, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 138, Agent Ines Strenja, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. The 139th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 140, IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. The same club of MPs, Amendment 141, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 142, the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 143 of the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 144, the same club of representatives, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 145, again IDS, PGS and LRI, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We're going to the Justice Department. The 146th Amendment has been withdrawn. 147, MP Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We are going to the 148th Representative Zeljko Jovanovic, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. So we are now going to review the amendments to the proposal of the Croatian Waters Finance Plan for 2019 and the projection of the 2020 and 2021 plans. The first amendment to the representatives of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj, the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Review of the amendments to the proposal of the Croatian Roads Finance Plan for 2019 and projection of the 2020 and 2021 plans First is the club of representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept He didn't get the votes he needed. [[Intruder: Branko, Orebić bypass, Branko, for Orebić.]] Ante Pranic's second amendment, and he didn't get enough votes either, The government doesn't accept it either. [[Intruder: incomprehensible]] He didn't get the votes he needed. [[Intruder: You promised.]] We're going to Amendment 3 to Agent Arsen Bauk, the government won't accept He didn't get enough votes. [[Intruder: Best to hypnotize.]] Amendment number 4, MP Mira Bulja, government does not accept My colleague Bulj and my colleague Grmoy, it's not funny that you turn on the microphone every time and comment on something, so now you're not just throwing away, but now you're turning on the microphone. [[Let's date Sinja, let's date Sinja, man.]] That I really think, I, please, there's some kind of behavior in this House, and I'm asking you to stick to it. ... he didn't get the number of votes he needed. [[Intruder of Nikola Grmoya: Intruding means to awaken conscience.]] Amendment 5, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 6, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 7, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 8, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 9, MPs Vesna Bedeković, Josip Djakić, Vladimir Bilek and Željko Lacković,.../Invader Ivan Pernar:
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107518	Mr. Jandrokovic, you have warned my colleague Mira Bulja and Grmoi for no reason,.../... in the form,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm begging you, I'm asking the guards, I'm asking the guards to act... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] .../Intruder Ivan Pernar incomprehensible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107519	...I ask the guard to remove this, please remove it. Comrade Pernar, please step aside, Comrade Pernar, please leave the Assembly. .../attack Ivan Pernar: [[Intruder Ivan Pernar incomprehensible.]] [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107520	You just mechanically, what you've done, what you've hidden from the people is a shame and this behavior is also a disgrace to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107521	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107522	Well, we're right, we want to know what's being voted on here, what's being voted on. I'll look. .../Speakers speak in their voices, incomprehensible./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107523	Of course, I give my colleague Pernar a warning with a permanent about today's day, away from the Assembly, and I have no comment on this kind of behavior at all. Therefore, Amendment 9, as I said, has been accepted in the modified form that the Proposer has accepted. We're going to the 10th Amendment, it's the Bridge Representatives' Club, the Independent Lists, the government doesn't accept, it hasn't received the required number of votes. Amendment number 11, has been withdrawn. Amendment number 12, MP Tomislav Panenic, the government does not accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment 13, has been accepted, becoming an integral part of the draft budget. Amendment number 14, MPs, too, from the Sun Glavak was accepted, becoming an integral part of the draft budget. Amendment number 15, MP Ante Pranic, the government does not accept, has not received the required number of votes. Amendment 16, MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept, has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 17, MP Mira Bulja, the government does not accept, has not received the required number of votes. Amendment 18, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 19, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 20, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 21, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 22, re-legislator Miro Bulj, the government does not accept, has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 23, the same representative, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment number 24, MP Damir Matjan, the government does not accept, has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 25, the Bridge Representatives' Club, independent lists, the government does not accept, has not received the required number of votes. Amendment 26, Ines Strenje MPs, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 27, representatives Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. The 28th amendment, representatives of Sinisha Hajdash Doncic and Marko Vesligaj, the government does not accept, did not receive the required number of votes. Amendment 29 has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the budget. Amendment number 30, GLS and HSU MPs' club, the government does not accept, did not get the required number of votes. And we are going to review the amendments to the draft financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2019 and the projection of the 2020 and 2021 plans. There's only one amendment to the GLAS and HSU club, the government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. [[This is a disgrace...]] And now we should approach the vote on the state budget proposal, but a respected colleague, Bernardic, appears, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107525	Dear Presidential Assembly, first of all, we want to warn about the effect they will have I am looking for a break, for additional consultations because we want to warn of an effect that will have an effect on the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and on 3 May. [[Intruder: Wait a minute, are you looking for a break or what?]] The Republic of Croatia guarantees its guarantees for the situation in Uljannik and will ultimately have to pay for the entire problem of the Uljanniks and the citizens of our country on 3 May. The government knew everything, for a year it had all the reports on the table, stalled by resolving the questions of the Oilies and on May 3rd, stalled with the selection of the new administration, why it did so, perhaps because one of the rulings would target or win an attractive plot from the Oilies in the future, but you directly endangered the lives of several thousand workers working in the Uljanik and 3 May and their families. You will be remembered as the government that destroyed Croatian shipbuilding, this will have a direct impact on the decline of industrial production in Croatia, for you colleagues and colleagues from HDZ are funny, as you find it funny when you draw money from Croatia in Agrokor, such as the ridiculous affair of the Borg, as you find it ridiculous to waste shipbuilding, it is ridiculous for you. You can keep laughing, I invite you to do it but workers whose families live on it, unfortunately they are not laughing, but they are leaving Croatia, and you are still laughing. The decline in industrial production will have a direct impact on the growth of the economy, the growth of the economy and due to the decline in investment, the drop in exports, but what is most tragic, the decline in tourism that you have additionally burdened with new taxes, because over 100,000 private renters will have to pay 5 times the tax. So, this budget of Croatia is slowly and surely leading to a safe recession, after the SDP government has managed to recover Croatia, and from shopping, attempts to buy coalition partners, therefore your on-call errands, Bandic and HNS will not do it again. be nothing to that because that promise will pass too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as well as a promise to return INE to Croatian hands. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, time is up.]] So nothing. a false promise. [[Intruder: colleague Bernardic, timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107526	Time's up. He called for a break and a colleague, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107527	Thank you very much, Mr. Presidential Croatian Parliament. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club because it is obvious that after a full day of debate some truth should be repeated. So, if you remember this same SDP government speaker in 2012 assured us that the Croatian shipbuilding restructuring programme was completed and 10 billion costs and the shipbuildings put on the budget deficit 2011. 2 days before Croatia's entry into the EU, the SDP government added to the EU on 3 May, 2015, 3 billion 200 million guarantees, and these are these guarantees that came to payment now, so the government that didn't control the restructuring process, because if you said it was over in 2011, then you had to control it. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, you probably saw that sometimes someone gets 10, 15, 20 thousand kuna from the state budget reserve, but at the end of the year, they have to submit a report to the state budget on what they spent, but it's very interesting that no one got 500 million from the restructuring programme on May 3rd and later just passed it on to Uljanik, no one in the state budget that year when those money was spent, and it was given during the SDP government to control why these money was spent. If it had done this all together then it probably wouldn't have happened the way it happened. So this government simply came into a situation that had to pay the guarantee issued by someone else and that it had to find a model of how to pay the workers of the Uljaniks and on 3 May, too, so that it had to find a restructuring programme because there was no future of Croatian shipbuilding until the restructuring programme was completed. That's why we're looking for a break. Yeah, I said it was on behalf of the club, but we want to publicly repeat some things, we always interpret these things to be able to repeat them over and over again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107528	I can give you a break if you're looking for club consultations. Are you looking? They're not.../Speakers speak in the same voice./... We've got three replicas now, three injuries to the Rules of Procedure. He's a colleague of Bernardich's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107529	Well first of all, thank you President for noticing that it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure and that Article 238, since he did not make fellow Shuker what he needed, but what I particularly wish to look at is a restructuring plan he did not even go to Brussels. So you deliberately delay, lie, buy and vote the votes of the coalition partners, the HNS, the Bandic you see as on-call errands. It is clear that these promises in your state budget will be nothing Like there's nothing [[Employer: colleague Bernardić.]] Not from the promise that you will INU [[Employer: colleague Bernardić.]] return to Croatian hands. [[Employer: colleague Bernardić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107530	First you speak out of time, the second one wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a replica and I'm giving you a warning for that reason. Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107531	I would focus on the breach of Article 119. Rules of Procedure on the relationship between the government and the parliament, Mr. Schuker, during his reasons for the break, said one 10 times by the SDP government, if you were referring to a government headed by Zoran Milanovic, the shipbuilding was in the portfolio of the Ministry of Economy led by today's coalition partner, Mr. Radimir Cacic, and another coalition partner Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak, in that sense for the record to remain in writing. [[Agreement: Comrade Bauk.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107532	Of course you've been warned because you've abused the Rules of Procedure, but this is how we're going to end this circle. Otherwise, when I find someone using the Rules of Procedure to break it and shut it down, because it's now become a practice, so we've found one, one hole in the rules again, and you're trying to keep doing it. Comrade Maras, you're giving up, well, then my colleague Bulj, he answered the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107533	Mr. President, you've injured an officer. 255. because this vote and the public vote was injured, because the public does not know which amendment we are voting on, what is it, whether it is Sinj or Trilj, so the colleague Šipic did not vote, or whether it is property, so Babic's colleague did not vote, or Metkovic, his colleague, Celic, and so on. So you don't know the public, you don't know what amendment we voted on, and when there was a debate, none of these were in the assembly of gentlemen, nor did you from Slavonia who didn't support you Bandics, there was a budget in, there was a proposal for my amendment, a proposal for textbooks you voted against. And last year and this year, he was hurt by this./The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107534	Please, have a seat first, Comrade Bull. First, you don't respect time, and for that reason, you deserve a warning. The other public can follow up on Parliament's website because it's all written. He knows, he knows, the plates are done, and I'm sorry you're not following. Wait a minute, don't yell, now you've taken advantage of the opportunity, I'm answering you now, so the public isn't seen because there's a table on the Internet's website, which we all have here, and whoever's interested will follow that table. Okay, you got the angle. a warning. Let's move on, Furio, you're giving up colleague Radin, colleague Sponza has come forward. Comrade Radin, just a minute, let me know.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107535	I gave, I raised my hand to consult the Club of National Minorities, because the National Minorities Club wants to understand why the SDP, it was after the SDP, which is why the SDP actually brings a minimum guarantee, which is the majority owner of the Uljanics and the 3rd May government gives to this budget. It's a minimum guarantee, we didn't understand why it was like that, so then I sued, I wanted to ask for a break, but still, after all that rasumen and rasumen, which happened afterwards, we're giving up on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107536	I'm a friend of mine. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107537	Dear President of the Parliament, I asked for a break on behalf of the club, for the same reasons as the predecessors did. Dear colleagues and colleagues, pointing to the problem, as the SDP president Bernardic did, is good, but the SDP and HDZ shooting over the back of workers at the expense of shipbuilding, instead of looking for solutions, is a path that leads us to a dead end. What you said, colleague Bernardić, that this will cost all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, then let us not be hypocritical, say how much it will cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, a situation in which the state has not changed a co-owner in Agrokor, and what the citizens of Croatia will pay, where the problem has been solved and found express, and here it is clearly stalled with the solution. Therefore, I call on both the lines of position and the opposition to focus the debate on finding a solution, shipbuilding is important for Croatia, shipbuilding is a much wider topic than shipbuilding itself, because it is related to science and specific knowledge, but it is linked to industry. Because if Croatia remains only on tourism, and without shipbuilding, without industry and without agriculture, it will not have its sustainability. Therefore, the focus of interest should be the focus of the debate in finding and searching resolved. So let's not collect cheap political points, which is what someone's trying to do, across the back of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107538	Okay. I approve of the break, and so did my colleague, Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107539	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament, on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to consult within the club on the priorities of the budget for the current government and their majority. In our budget, we give weapons, we give 100 million kn for the coastal ship, 300 million kn for the weapons, 500 million kn for the storm vehicles, which will never come, we give for NATO operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, we give for EU operations, we give for migrants in Turkey, we give for the crisis in the South Mediterranean, in Sudan, in Chad, and at the same time we have a teacher strike. So it's over at the same time. was a strike by teachers who are dissatisfied with their salaries, which are extremely low, and who are simply no longer motivated to do their honorable work. At the same time, we have an eviction of day and night workers. Now a new wave will follow, of course after the bankruptcy of the Oilics, possibly May 3rd, the question of what will happen 1.1. In 2020, when Austria opens its borders, another 120,000 workers will leave, and here we have to pay the Afghan police. So instead of giving our teachers and our firefighters, we pay the Afghan cops, and we think it's a completely wrong list of priorities, a completely disturbed scale of values for that reason we want to discuss it again before voting for the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107540	It's okay to take a break. Now he's a colleague of Bernardic's, a breach of his rules of procedure? I'm warning you, I'll take your word for it if there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure and you won't be able to speak again, because I don't know where the breach of the Rules of Procedure was.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107541	Your Honor, the officer has been injured of course. 238, because a colleague of Radin took it, asked for a break to explain the break, eventually gave up the break, was in that breach of the Rules of Procedure. And as for my colleagues, Radin, I don't know why he and his IDS colleague felt called on the subject in Uljanik. And the real question arises when a colleague of Radin is heartily defending the government's decisions, is there some secret connection between you and those who may have the intention of turning the shipyard into some kind of hotel complex? You have to tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107542	Time's up. Comrade Bernardić, you've run out of time that's one thing, another thing you've hurt your Rules of Procedure again. Yeah, you're getting a second warning. My colleague Furio Radin, I gave a warning the second time,...... The second warning, yes, the second warning, yes, by taking away the word, is yes, yes, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] There's a colleague named Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107543	Dear Mr. President, I am looking for a break on behalf of GLAS and HSU to consult on the vote and I am taking the same opportunity to look back at these expressed qualifications related to the construction industry of Croatia's Ulnik and Third May. So we can say whatever we want, but the issue of shipbuilding and the survival of shipbuilding extends through more governments, neither is this nor is it the responsibility of this government nor is it the responsibility and merit of the former government for this situation, for the situation in Uljanik but for years of tolerance of one mode of work and non-verification, means irresponsibility by the Government in providing guarantees and management with part of its ownership. Therefore, my appeal to all of you is to stop looking for the guilty, to try to save what is given, and without workers and without qualified labour, we won't be able to. And I give full support to workers who justifiably seek their rights and I appeal to the government to find opportunities, because they can be found, if they will wait for the DORH to do all the reconnaissances to give money, those ships will never end up at the expense of all of us because we will stop being the country that can build the largest product in this area. So, waiting, looking for the guilty is only to the detriment of all of us in the Republic and should not in that part think about who is prone or who supports this government but needs to find a solution. Not finding a solution is at the expense of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107544	Thank you. There's also a colleague of the Grmoy, please come in. ... When after? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then you won't be able to get a break because then we'll vote on the budget. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] After voting on the budget yes but not after the break, fine. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Then we exhausted all these break requests now, we continue at 11.50, please be correct because it's going to vote on the budget. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.40 HOURS CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11:55 WITH THE DESERVED MEETINGS, esteemed MPs, please take your seats. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107546	Regardless of your smile, I must react, Mr. President. So this is what we discussed before the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107547	Wait a minute, what's the form that we can measure the measures?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107548	Form is your advice for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107549	You'll give me that advice later than now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107550	No, but the public has to, The public must hear because it is impossible to track what is voted on in this way because of the communiqué of your deputies who were not here on Friday, [[Intruder President: You will not give me advice.]] that they don't have to sit for 10 hours and listen to the amendment. [[Intruder president: colleague Maras.]] Our citizens don't know what amendment we voted on. What you really think is that someone at home printed 200 amendments and sat in front of the TV and puts the clutches past every amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107551	You'll get a warning from a fellow Mars, don't act like one.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107552	I can get 10 warnings, but don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107553	We're going to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are going to vote on the State Budget Proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of the State budget requires most of all MPs, 76. I am voting on the proposal of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 79 for and 1 abstentions and 45 votes against the adoption of the State budget for 2019 and the 2020 and 2021 projection. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent and proposals for the financial plans of extra budget users in 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021. I would like to remind you that the amendments to the proposals for the financial plans of the extra budget users have been voted on a moment ago. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107554	Your Honor, I think it's unacceptable for any amendment of the opposition to be accepted, that of 64...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107555	What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107556	I'm looking for a club break to consult on the scandalous behaviour of the ruling, not only did you refuse all our amendments, but on Friday, here, look at the video, no one was in the assembly when you put up a debate on the amendments and today, as colleagues Bulj and colleagues Maras and colleagues Pernar say, the citizens don't even know what we voted on here today. Citizens do not know that counterpart Babic voted against Imotski's merger on the highway, citizens do not know that counterpart Šipic voted against the O.S. Paul Vukkovic in Sinj, citizens do not know that my counterpart Miro Kovac, who was elected in the election unit against the city of Knin, against the hospital in Knin, against the highway merger, does not know that my Neretvanin Ivan Celic voted against Metkovic's merger on the highway, citizens do not know that Bačić voted against all amendments to Korčula, citizens do not know that representatives from Slavonia voted against all amendments from Slavonia, citizens do not know that Škorić voted against the stadium of Pokor, against the arrangement of the town's street in Split, where there are big crowds, citizens do not know the chairman. And that is, the citizens will know because we will warn them that you are working against them and that you have rejected all these amendments. And worst of all, those are the promises you made in your election campaigns. Here's my colleague Bacic opening the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel, right, 2009? And now he's voted against the project documentation at all, which means it hasn't been made in so many years. That's what you do. And that's why you don't want to know what the vote is about. So you rejected not our amendments, but you rejected the citizens' amendments. And we won't participate in this, so we won't, we're pulling out of the assembly because this kind of behavior when you vote against what you promised yourself is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107557	Thank you very much, thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Bulls.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107558	Thank you very much, President. A colleague of Grumo was injured by Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Grmoy, so where did you get the right to ask that the people know how their MPs voted? Well, the Rules of Procedure are made so the people don't know how their deputies voted. Why would they know that Petar Skoric didn't vote for the reconstruction of the Man, the arrangement? Why would they know that Ivan Šipic did not vote on projects of the Cetin region? Why would they know that Babic didn't vote, Miro Kovac,... for Slavonia, that Milan Bandic and parliamentary representatives did not vote in favour of textbooks? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why would they know that and call it that? They can't know. I think the President of the Parliament should have kicked you out of the House and banned you from speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107559	And the President of the Parliament is democratic and won't do it even in situations like yours, but I'll give you a warning. There is another violation of the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107560	Thank you, Mr. President. It's really not my intention when a man calls you several times then it becomes a joke and an insult. So, for the last time,... 238, dear gentlemen, which you most abuse, in 238, so I'm just going to tell the MOST next, Mr. Bully, Mr. Grmoya, you're really never going to be useless because you can always serve as a bad example. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107561	All right, colleague Šipic and this is a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a warning. Here you go, fellow Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107562	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 238 shall, by its conduct, deviate from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly. And I suggest we introduce one award for play in the Croatian Parliament my proposal so we can reward our colleague Buljo and his colleague Grmoi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107563	My colleague Kovac, you know what's waiting for you. It's a warning. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107564	The Honorable President here was not involved in any act, since the citizens do not know. 238nd colleague Shuker, don't be nervous, this wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, because I made all the exact data. I was talking about amendments voted against by HDZ deputies, and why they feel nervous, called... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u107565	Col. Grmoj, please, colleagues Šipic, colleagues Šipić, colleagues Bulj, the citizens in the elections decide what impression we leave here, and you have the research last, so look what citizens think of all of us. Thank you very much. We have a break by 12 o'clock. MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can proceed with the vote, before that I would only welcome our guests but we must help our colleague, Bukarica. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.13 HOURS]] Today, students and students of OŠ Ljubljanica from Zagreb are welcome with us, welcome, welcome. And now we continue the vote, firstly I am voting in the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021, please vote. [[Applause.]] I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 19 against, have been made that decision. Secondly, I am voting in the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Croatian Roads for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 18 against, have been made that decision. Third, I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2019 and the 2020 and 2021 projections, please vote. I also find that this decision has been taken by the majority of votes, 79 for, 1 abstention and 2 against. Fourthly, I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the financial plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2019 and projections for 2020 and 2021, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for and 21 against, have been made that decision. Fifthly, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the financial plan for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021, please vote. I find that most votes, 78 for, 2 abstentions and 24 votes against, have been made that decision. Sixth, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2019 and the projections for 2020 and 2021, with an explanation, please vote. I find that most votes, 79 for and 29 votes against, have been made that decision. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion which reads: The professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposer, a revision of the text of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2019 and the decision of the financial plans of Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, HZZO before their publication in the National Journal, please vote. I find that, unanimously with 92 votes, it is in the text as proposed by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108106	So we move to the next item of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 403. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia This Regulation shall enter into force on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate, based on Article 1(2). 197. Rules of Procedure, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I call upon the Honorable Minister of Finance, Mr. Zdravko Maric, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108107	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here in the next 30 minutes I will present this proposal, namely the Final Proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. As we talked about in the first reading, it was already apostrophe that this proposal for a law on the one hand was the implementation of the Council of the EU Directive, and, of course, our responsibility and concern for public finances for fiscal policy and all that is of course closely related to it. So, the final bill, brings crucial news, I would say in 2 basic areas. On the one hand, these are fiscal rules or fiscal criteria, which are going to be 3 new ones. So, 3 basic fiscal rules, on the one hand it's a rule of structural balance, the structural balance is on, we can call it a technical category which in translation means that of the total balance and the total budgetary result, you pull out and break out that so-called The cyclical component, depending on whether the phase of your economic cycle is in expansion or possibly the descending pathway and the recession. However, the structural balance rule is something that applies already to all EU member states, mainly those that are in the euro area, and so, among other things, Croatia is already obliged to use certain parameters, i.e. to meet the parameters primarily after it has emerged from the excessive deficit procedure. On the other hand, this is a rule of expenditure on sustainable expenditure movement, and this is precisely the rule, where the growth of general budget expenditure must not exceed the reference anti-national GDP growth rate established in accordance with EU legal provisions. Finally, the public debt rule is, therefore, for all countries that have a public debt level of more than 60% of GDP, Croatia is among them, the provision is that, at that time, this share of public debt in GDP must be reduced minimally by at least 1/20 differences between the current level and that 60%. I will translate this into a dictionary and figures of Croatia and public finances and fiscal policies of Croatia. So at the end of this year we expect and project that public debt will be reduced to 74.6. So that's about 15% of the points more than this 60%, which is the reference value, which in translation would mean that something below 1% of the points should be reduced in the years that follow our public debt. According to the draft budget that we have just completed, as well as in the medium term in the framework that we have made, Croatia would 3 times as quickly reduce the share of public debt in GDP, and this is now not just a look ahead in terms of a promise, it has really been happening for the past 3 years if you are looking at that correction to 74.6 in these 3 years almost 10% of the points has been reduced to the share of public debt in GDP. On the other hand, in this law, the issue of the independence of the fiscal policy commission is important, it is defined just as a permanent, independent and independent body. Therefore, for the Commission to work, it is necessary to provide adequate financial resources and, therefore, with this law, to provide that and define the commission as independent and independent. This strengthens its role, as well as its supervisory functions in terms of the implementation of fiscal policy as a whole, and all in order to improve the public finances system. As far as the first reading is concerned, there are some nomotechnical changes, but there is one, as far as, perhaps we can say, more systematic and essential things, which is to strengthen the issue of government reporting, both according to the Commission and, of course, the European Commission, we are also talking about... the phase, but mostly of course and about ex post phase. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that's it, I managed to cut it down to 30 minutes originally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108108	I thank the Honorable Minister for this explanation of the bill. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108109	Thank you very much Minister Maric, I must simply say this, namely, I've been stuck here all day with citizen messages to allow them to pay off Christmas cards on their hands to those who have blocked bills. Well, please, if there's anything you can do for them, it's not my request, I'm just passing on theirs. So it's Christmas Eve is protected from the performance, but their employers still pay it to those blocked bills, and they pray if they can get those Christmases on their hands, if you can bring some direction or guidance unique at government level, so that, well, they're doing these Christmases because it means a lot to me, those assets just don't have people. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108110	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. The next replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108111	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I extend to my colleague Bunjc, I have received several messages, indeed that people who work and are under the covers are blocked to enable them, bring the regulation to pay off their hands because banks have made such contracts that no one can get paid in cash anymore, which is unacceptable. However, I would like to ask you a question you want to tear down the public debt, you well know that 70 billion kunas of government bonds hold pension funds or in the second pillar, so it is clear to you now that these 70 billion are public debt. So let's transform what the Party proposes We change Croatia's second pension column and we will reduce public debt to 55% and not 60% as much as you are now. Let's do it. Make state decisions. Don't cic-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c-c. And that's it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108112	A respected colleague of Lovrinovic's. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108113	Thank you, Your Honor, for not being able to replicate this morning because I've replicated the Prime Minister, and now I'm going to ask you a question. Why are you comparing the budget for 2019 with the original original budget that we know will not be achieved instead of comparing it with the rebalancing for 2018? Are you aware that this is how you deceive citizens, Croatian public and us here as agents?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108114	So we're talking about the final proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act and I'm asking you nicely to stick to the subject, here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108115	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, a late hour, and I think it's early and late, and I think the hard words you've just sent, but you know best as a parliamentary representative, but here I'm going to use my right as an answer to explain it again. So, which budget for 2018 at this moment is in force, the original budget, did the Croatian Parliament vote the budget rebalance for 2018 as far as I know it is not, we discussed it but it was not adopted. Until he's adopted, he's not even in effect. So with this in mind, we proposed a budget in accordance with the Budget Law and all the legal acts of the Republic of Croatia and put it as is our obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108116	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, the next replica of my esteemed colleague, Marian Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108117	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you said that the following year you would only be aware of the public debt on 75% of GDP, and my question is that the prime minister obviously pushes Croatia into the euro zone, but we do not meet the criteria of nominal convergence, so it must be within 60% of the public debt of GDP, and you say that next year you will come to 75%, and you want to join the euro zone as soon as possible, and you know that among Croatian citizens there is such a mood that is not quite prone to crossing the EURO and leaving the Croatian kuna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108118	Thank you, Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108119	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the mood and, in some ways, the sentiment and the whole story about the euro strategy and our journey towards the introduction of the EUR, I think there will be a chance for us to discuss this further, as far as this nominal convergence is concerned, that I can answer you. So, I clearly just said 74.6% of GDP by the end of 2018 is a projection and that every year, as was the case in the past 3 years, the share of public debt in GDP decreased by an average of 3% of the points per year. When the provisions of the mass criteria and one of the criteria of public debt are taken, I mentioned it earlier, if the level of public debt is over 60% and then its trajectory must be at least 1.20 per year. Finally, in Croatia, this would mean somewhere from something below the 1% point a year, and we are reducing it by 3% points, so 3 times faster than these provisions, which means hypothetically that today we are testing the mastic criteria and that criterion would be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108120	I thank Minister Maric for his reply. Maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it, no. Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108121	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the respected ministers with their associates. We have before us a new fiscal responsibility law aimed at ensuring and maintaining fiscal responsibility and transparency and achieving medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances. What we have received from the proposal coming from the Government does not indicate measures that would achieve the objectives set, but simply seeks to formally meet the requirements coming from the European Commission. Fiscal responsibility primarily concerns the state budget, which is one of the most important acts of each parliament. Around the state budget, governments and coalitions exist and the budget is the cornerstone of each country's policy. It is not a mere financial plan that lists the revenue and expenditure items of the functioning of the state, but should present a key political and economic document and point to the direction of the country's movement, give strategic guidelines for the development of the economy and society as a whole, and point out what key changes are necessary to achieve so much of the desired economic growth. We haven't had a chance to see it in any budget since the formation of an independent Republic. The budgets fought that development and social, and they neither brought development nor social justice to their citizens and those who made their payments and such a budget, had already persistently increased the state spending, which also increased the national shears that swept over the heads of taxpayers and persistently cut and demanded more than the real sector of the economy. In view of such practice and chronology of events over the past three decades, we must welcome any measure aimed at curbing public spending and at seeking to balance state revenues and expenditures. The clarification and extension of fiscal rules that represent the fundamental premise of this law are theoretically a good step towards achieving the objectives set. The structural balance rule which excludes cyclic economic effects of one-off and temporary measures which have an impact on the revenue or expenditure of the general budget and which, with the current convergence programme, is set at a level of minus 1.75% of GDP, is a positive objective, but which is only one step towards a balanced budget. Budget projections for the next three years show that this objective is at risk unless there is a significant reduction in public spending. The second rule at which budget expenditures should not, in principle, grow at a rate higher than the GDP growth rate is the basic rule of each management and should not even be particularly stressed. But it is understandable that it must be listed in such historical forms of public money management. I don't know what I'd call a situation where the same government and the same minister propose such a legal solution, and the last budget with which they came before this House of Commons is not in line with that same rule. The third rule comes from the so-called so-called. mastitic criteria relating to the possibility of entering the euro area and setting a limit to an acceptable public debt of 60% of GDP. The government continues to measure preparations for the introduction of the euro and, if they want to succeed on that path, this goal needs to be achieved. Current projections suggest that in 2020, my colleague Bulj will be silent – current projections suggest that in 2020, the level of public debt will be at 70% of GDP and will be difficult to bring down to the default level before 2023 or 2024. The law also introduces the obligation to adhere to the recommendations of the Council of the European Union during the course of the excessive budget deficit procedure, but does not prescribe more concrete measures that would lead to a sustainable reduction of such shortfall and prevent its future creation. If the draft law here were to be concluded, it could be assessed that it is a regulation which must satisfy the requirements of the European Union body and lays down the rules contained in European directives at national level. But it's only now that it comes to the scene of a socialist approach to solving problems with the development of artificial positions. At the time of Yugoslav self-government socialism, it was popular for any problem that could not be resolved quickly by the commission. Unfortunately, even today, we have not gotten far from such a way of dealing with problems, and we have also intended for fiscal responsibility to strengthen the already existing special commission. As previously noted, the adoption of the State budget and supervision of its implementation are one of the most important constitutional powers of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament has been given a mandate from our citizens and citizens to exercise its constitutional powers, which the current government is likely to take away from it by its legal proposals, in accordance with the prime minister's "whatever I want" approach. In particular, when it comes to fiscal responsibility and the state budget in the Assembly, there is a Committee on Finance and the State Budget, which is composed of 13 MPs and representatives, and 6 external members and members, and is fully encapsulated to carry out all tasks related to the state budget. This Bill proposal not only confirms the need for the existence of a special Committee on Fiscal Responsibility but also cements it by professionalising the role of the President or President of the Commission and by setting up a Commission Office to further employ civil servants and temporary staff. This is not a financially significant amount of the increase in budgetary expenditure, but is it not tragic that the law dealing with fiscal responsibility and the effort to balance the budget requires an increase in budgetary expenditure? And which is even more tragic for the work of a body without real authority. The draft law provides that the abovementioned Committee consists of 7 persons from pre-elected institutions, some of whom are obliged to submit reports on their work to the Croatian Assembly, while others like 4 state universities are placed in a preferential position before other scientific institutions. It is not clear what the real impact of this Commission on fiscal responsibility could be when the bill provides that it is only considering, monitoring, assessing, giving an opinion on matter, but there are no tools that could really affect at least the awareness of fiscal responsibility in a country where there is no fiscal responsibility. All we have received from the Bill's proposal is that the Commission will write to the Ministry of Finance who will inform the Government, which will explain its position and thus the letters, reports, analyses will travel from one side of St. Mark and no concrete results or shifts. Instead of clearly prescribing corrective measures in the case of deviations from the fiscal rules laid down, the law provides only bureaucratic distortions from measures, reports, follow-up of new measures and so on, from old to new measures. It can be concluded from all of this that part of the law, unfortunately, is bigger in terms of the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility, is completely excessive and in a way offensive to the Croatian Parliament, because it is intruding at Parliament's fundamental right to have the first and last word in the adoption of the state budget. The proposal was completely rejected by the proposals from the first reading indicating that the Commission would only be a bureaucratic body for which we do not see the real purpose of existence. When there must already be an independent commission, we are interested in why the proposings did not conduct a practice that would minimise the costs of such a commission. Examples from other countries show us that this can be arranged in a way that members of the Committee are appointed to the Commission as an honorary function without additional fees, e.g. Austria's case, they do not receive compensation as much as they are employed in the public sector, an example of Ireland, the Commission is set up under the auspices of the Central Bank, an example of Estonia, members of the commission perform their duties within the judicial or other duties on which they have been elected and are not paid for it, an example of France, but of course, we will never, ever, any positive example, unless we are imposed on something which, of which, in fact, the Republic of Croatia has no use, and our prime minister has received it as a domestic task, as many things here have been pushed into HS because it has been given as a domestic task. Tomorrow at HS, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discusses the Marrakech compact, and at the same time discusses the Household Act. The most important thing for all of Europe is debated tomorrow at the same time as the Household Act that they have created such a concern these days that we have neither discussed the budget at all today nor tomorrow will the debate on the Marrakesh Agreement be a public focus. And these are the things that need to be debated here on Plenum. When all the countries in the environment come out of the Marrakesh Agreement with which we should deal with the issue of migrants together. How are we going to solve this issue if they come out of the Marrakesh Agreement, and our prime minister is going to push it here at HS tomorrow on the Foreign Affairs Committee instead of discussing it on the Plenum. And it is the behaviour of this government and it is constant, here, and for example of this Law, the degradation of the Croatian Parliament and HS. We don't have to decide anything here. And just as we are responsible for Croatian citizens and now for us, Prime Minister Plenkovic, Branko Bačić, and the rest of the team are going to push the Marrakech Agreement on the Committee on Foreign Affairs when no one even knows that this debate is happening. No one. Who's even talking in the Republic of Croatia that tomorrow at HS is a debate about the Marrakech compact. They did a good job of this. They are building on this democratic muscle, the HDZ on this Household Act, long ago it is known that the Law as such will pass, the HNS gives amendments, they plant these liberal muscles, and it is not debated what we go through. The Marrakech Agreement will go through tomorrow on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and we will strongly oppose it tomorrow as we oppose such a budget and such a law that degrades the role of HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108122	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ representative's club, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108123	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, this is a proposal, the final proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. As we know, it was first adopted in 2010 at the time of the economic crisis and the recession was in full swing and when it was difficult to keep and collect revenues, and even harder to keep on spending, and then certain fiscal rules were created, and also in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the EU Council Directive, which also recommends and gives fiscal rules that comply with the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact, also recommends independence and jurisdiction of the Commission for Fiscal Policy. We believe that this law is good and will contribute to the sustainability of public finances and much more control than it has ever been. As mentioned above, this proposal lays down three fiscal rules, a structural balance rule, a rule of expenditure and a rule of public debt. In this regard, the Commission has so far been the primary body of the HS, where the chairman of the Committee was also the chairman of the Committee, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. However, with this new law, it is being singled out in a way that is chosen either by the proposal or by the call for tenders, the President of the Committee is appointed to be composed of representatives, as so far, of individual institutions, such as the State Audit Office, the Economic Institute of Zagreb, the Institute of Public Finance of the CNB, and the Faculty of Economics and Law. The president of the commission would be at the level, his salary would be at the height of the vice-president of the State Election Commission, who will have a term of office for 5 years, while members are also elected for 5 years, but do not have employee status, are still outside members, and receive a certain fee for their work. The Commission for Fiscal Policy would be separate, as a special chapter for which a million and a half kuna is foreseen in this budget. So far, the Commission has had 20 views, which were within the Croatian Parliament and have been published on the committee's website and 28 sessions have been held. Meetings were held with representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, and this way, I can thank my leaders, and this is Mr. Srdjan Jurković and Mr. Goran Maric, who led this commission during this previous period.../Indica Brkić: Excuse my colleagues, dear colleague Pranic and gentlemen from the ministries, I ask you not to disturb... /... and thus contributed to making it and recommendations as high and independent as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And professional staff of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget also helped maintain and prepare the sessions themselves, without any compensation. In this way, we think that the Committee on Fiscal Policy is becoming more independent, that this way it will make a significant contribution as an independent body, which will give quality suggestions and also be very useful in the adoption of the budget, or the functioning of the system itself. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club supports this final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108124	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric for this debate. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108125	Thank you very much. At one point, Gmroya's colleague mentioned that in some countries we have examples of fiscal responsibility and these commissions falling within the example of banks, central banks in Croatia should be CNB, which would be a disaster to be under the CNB so to speak of fiscal responsibility, and we have a governor, a man who participated or allowed the economic collapse, to experience the biggest concert, i.e. A concert where money fell into. So you simply talk about this expenditure, revenue part of the budget, about the directives, the introduction of the euro is simply well noticed by your colleague Grumoja, which is either an order or a task to be done, so... Parliament, because parliament on the issue of the CNB is simply me regarding fiscal or any responsibility or the Central Bank, absolutely this Parliament, has no influence, except that it has responsibilities to the people, so this is all who knows di. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But, of course, nobody cares, because this simple, serious debate was supposed to be in the morning, and as my colleague Lovirovic suggested, not now at half the night. However, when we talk about this matter, about fiscal responsibility, then I would be interested in the Minister's commission, which will bring to the Croatian state, except for these million and a half kuna, which you will have to pay to those members of the commission who will probably be strengthened from the ranks, I will probably be two men from Mr. Bačić, 2 I don't know who will name it all, with Mr. Seks and Ivo, excuse me, the diameter of Sanader Plenkovic, probably and of course it's one set of Brussels officials, the listener of Junker, who will do a certain task for this gentleman. It's mentioned here, in this debate of very important things, today we've been talking about the budget all day and this is connected to the budget. Today in the Republic of Croatia, when we talk about fiscal responsibility, at this point, I am sorry that I have not seen a single article in this law, that it simply adapts fiscal responsibility to the trade coalition. So let's see how and how it's scraped out, so let's see who it is and how it can rip up inside the budget and how it can be defined. Because if you cared, Minister, it's funny, then surely Croatia's sky would be the worst. So I'll list you by what, Croatia has the least possibility of enrolling children in kindergartens, absolutely no one is worried about, nor is the Minister of Education except P.R. It's a job. The Croatian economy, Croatia's agriculture, has never been subsidized and subsidized again, and never related imports. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 300 million dollars or 2 billion kn, we imported more food products, so we have an example that more agricultural goods in the Republic of Croatia, fruits and spirits of agricultural goods and fats than. Import means this is an import lobby, you simply, this is a fog in the eyes, because at this moment when we look who's running our financial system, who's at the head of the CNB? So that's the team that was, here's my colleague Bacic was, he had better say, who was there, when there was the presentation of the book of Martina Dalic, which he was here with a soulful defense on several occasions, Governor Vujčić, the man who calls the competitions, the wages he will pay himself, he's scrutinizing the contests, for the cooks, to give him... The most important master of the bosses, to love the fish, to bring you down with the wines, the black whites, depends, doesn't care at all about financial stability, nor do we as a Parliament have any influence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, even we've been looking here in Parliament, several times, to at least have a State Audit. So what is the responsibility when here are colleagues mentioned by Bunjac and Lovrinović, when banks complete people Christmas or some such symbolic fee, and when they say that 2 billion or 5 billion kunas are given to shipbuilding to build ships to invest in shipbuilding subsidies and says the revision was not used in accordance with the law, it is that it has not been used for purpose and no one cares about 5 billion kunas taken by Debeljak Končaru I don't know who matters at all and it is not talked about at all. It doesn't matter, but it's important to allow banks to have 4 billion kuna per year through fees, commissions as many as have 500ths, it's important that teleopers have the biggest profit in the Republic and get it out of the way, of course it can't be mentioned and not in the media, nor the media write about these problems that we're talking about, no matter what they don't respect the laws of the Republic of Croatia, you boast and we talk about some kind of responsibility and the law of some kind of responsibility. The thread has responsibilities and is who cares about responsibility, this is the only thing that could be given an amendment if I figure out the time to put it here to agree that according to this and determine the fiscal responsibility is the budget and adopted in the way of the trade coalition in accordance with Seks's installation, here this parliamentary majority, which is undemocratic, against the will of the people of the Republic of Croatia, thus simply in this way, simply this law and does not make sense without that amendment, because in Croatia if there is no trade, there is no political sense at all to discuss here. If it were different, my colleague Bacic, I see that you gave the line, then we would be last year's elections, then there would be elections, and in a democratic way you would be elected new representatives, but you can't just not do that. It couldn't be done because that's how those who run you were determined. And once again here at the end I would say that I was also disappointed to see that yesterday we are talking about very important how many listeners our politicians and concubines are being convened yesterday when talking about the most important law where it was supposed to be in parliament where the triba people were at the Marrakech Agreement, that at the same time other committees are being convened and that they are trying to focus on another topic because it is necessary to buy out Andrej Plenkovic and restore this democracy which was never concerned about democracy, and that is because of what Lovre Kuscevic, a minister who is often praised Jesus, he is here who purposely abolished the referendum and the other who pushed the Istanbul Convention. And now, now, the Triba of the Marrakesh Agreement justifies how, ah, the HNS will give them the Liberal Amendment, that they are for fosterers this same-sex family and that this one, and that they will react this way. So that's where he washes his conscience, and there's a series of child care they wash their consciences, and now, before the European elections, fathers want a Bildata muscle of their democratic, and the CNS of their liberal, and their muscles are the same. Advocacy, servitude, lobbys of energy, banking, economic, agricultural all lobbys. That's a fact. Don't be now you would be the greatest democracies, you see that HNS strong Ivan Vrdoljak, gives you an amendment and Plenkovic resolutely not in the style of Sanader with port in the air to arrest, locate, transfer obediently, blatantly, god on earth. Well, it won't work like that, but you won't be doing so the people read you Ministers don't have it here to enter this amendment. I know if we don't have time if you can know that the first reading has passed, put it here in the commission to be. the law to be a trade coalition as you do, and so the budget must be allocated revenue on the expenditure side, is that how you simply function. And if it will be possible for children to kindergarten, will two-thirds of Croatia's mountain-mounted areas and assisted areas work it absolutely no one cares. Two-thirds of Croatia are falling apart, and you make fun of these laws, Bildate muscles with HNS around some amendments there to mock children, nor are children at the centre of attention nor do you care about dico. If you cared about the dick then you'd have all the kids and free textbooks, all the kids would have kindergartens, you wouldn't be at the bottom of the Republic of Croatia for three to six years. And adoption would be faster. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You're making fun of me. You're making fun of me. You're making fun of me. You're making
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108126	Thank you, dear fellow Bull, for this debate. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Marin Skibola, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108127	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Bulj, for mentioning Governor Vujčić, you mentioned the CNB, and I'm interested in how you look at the situation where Governor Vujčić recently received the award of certain foreign creditors as if he was doing a good job in the Republic of Croatia. The one who is a little more informed he knows that Rohatinski also received such rewards, why in fact these awards from these foreign creditors are being won in reality, because they are being declared as some of the best governors, the Maltas not in the EU, and we see that Croatia is in such blockades means that there is a huge indifference, meaning that we have over 300 thousand people in the blockade, that we have people who rot in debt, and they get rewards.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108128	Thank you, fellow Schibol. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108129	If it had anything to do with the CNBs, then the monetary system and stability would have worked differently, because the man had made it possible, he and his team in the Stability Council for 10 billion kuna exchanges without the cover of Todorovic and his Agrokor but that Minister Marić would have had to know much more, he could answer the benefits without cover and Minister Maric knows exactly and knows well what it means to use 10 billion kunas without cover in Agrokor while you were, it was used by Todorovic, he could explain it better and not me layk, I think I am laik. But the fact is I've even filed a criminal report, there's no response from the state's attorney's office, and it's rewarded by the ones he works for. It works for foreign interests, foreign lobbys and is thus formed by the EU in a way that lobbys have their own people and that's why we're on the EU's tail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108130	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108131	I thank the chairman. So I'm not going to talk about such a high level of state, I'm going to talk about fiscal responsibility and some other lower levels, and that's a particular situation with a psychiatric hospital called the Thieves, where four entities wipe their hands from a catastrophic situation in that hospital and say it's not responsible. The Lopaca Hospital, the Lopaca psychiatric hospital, was the one that burned down where the man was killed, 18 seriously injured had to be evacuated, the prime minister came in the middle of the night and promised help. So, the only city hospital in Croatia. The city of Rijeka cannot withdraw decentralised funds, the county says it must be the founder of the fund-raiser, the finance ministry says it is addressing the health ministry, the health ministry to address the finance ministry. Whoever is responsible, the hospital collapses in it doctors and nurses have the lowest salaries in Croatia because internally on the basis of how much money remains by the regulation is redistributed and the collective contract is not applied. It's fiscal responsibility, to know how to answer an institution that's already addressed the Ministry of Finance who's responsible for decentralizing funds for that hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108132	Thank you. She's a respected colleague of the Sagittarius. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108133	I don't know maybe I can guess, a colleague is, I don't know who's in power here, maybe if she was in HDZ and HNS wouldn't probably be necessary. So here I recommend that voters vote for HDZ and HNS there, only then will they get the money. Your only example and the functioning of this country and the rest of them are the only people who are connected to... in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And these kids stay and that's how it works because 3,000 people hire, I even suggested in the county to build one in Split-Dalmatia where HDZ is in power one floor building, that people don't walk in the halls, walk in cafes, young people don't have room. So I donated as many as four chairs to the mayor because I feel sorry for the youth you receive that they have nowhere to sit. I took four chairs to the mayor and donated from my wallet and it would be good to make project documentation in this same law for those new ones in the store, to be the documentation for the construction of those institutions where people will be received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108134	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108135	Thank you. Your Honor, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj, after a debate between his colleague Pranic on the budget where he had completely demonized this HDZ policy and everything they did with this budget, where they promised things they had promised since 2007, so we had a situation where here was a colleague of Bacic, who is now president of the HDZ Club, opened in 2007 or '09, '09. opened the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel and fellow Boric here, which is the main Hawk of HDZ, at the same time at Calmet's Ministry was an assistant when painting tunnels and opening projects for which we have no project documentation today. And that is responsibility, responsibility to the people, but here is what is sad that they continue to rule Croatia. But I hope that our youth will return, that those who want to change will return and that this Croatia will be the way it should be again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108136	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Hey, buddy Bull's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108137	I'd say from the end, I believe our youth will come back, but the fact is, you've just said well now that what responsibility we're talking about is when a colleague Bacic opens the same thing. Every election is the same thing. So what kind of responsibility is... Of course. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I want to tell you why. Let's say when I was down here in, when there were elections, then you have the exact pattern of asphalt, you can see my colleague Bačić, exactly the election cycle, you see the thickness of the asphalt for the presidential elections every four years, the only thing you do. There's nowhere else to put the chicken. You're paved, you're spending money, you're wasting it. So... impossible where you rule. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You just blacked out and nowhere to work, nowhere young. And what you did, that one was a fine number of these municipalities and cities. And the same thing you do with the fast road Sinj, Križić, Kukuzovci is... with Knin, connected to the Drniš highway, on the Lika highway, the whole area. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108138	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. I would now ask you to stick to the subject of the final proposal of the fiscal responsibility law. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Pranic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108139	Thank you, Vice President. You compared my colleague Bulj in your debate in Croatia in many ways. I am deeply concerned, but I think that all colleagues should also be concerned when we look at GDP growth in Croatia and when we look around our neighbouring countries from Slovenia, Hungary, Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria, not to mention some other countries that have much greater GDP growth and why is this not happening with us? He simply doesn't want anyone to say that we need to share ten thousand layoffs, that we need to digitise the public administration, that we need to speed up the economy. Other countries have grown up, they have made these, the governments that did this have lost, but they have preserved people in these countries because of the lack of reforms in Croatia today our youth is located in Ireland, Germany and the Western countries and these are highly educated people. We create highly educated people who can't get a job in Croatia because of this economy and the economy can't be competitive if we don't have digitized processes, or when in the 21st century it's the main paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108140	Dear colleague Pranic, I emphasized before your replica that you stick to a topic that you did not stick to at all, but I did not want to interrupt you. Now, now, fellow Bull, answer the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108141	Comrade Pranic, you have well said that in fiscal responsibility it is visible, here you see so you and the chairman warns that it is all beautiful, how nice it is, to turn to beautiful things, to articles written in this law that are, one here is fog i.e. The deception, maybe something sent from Brussels, what every day it brings... Parliament doesn't decide anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for strength, this state, as far as strength and power are concerned, the key should be in this House. We absolutely don't decide anything. It's all about Junker, Trusk, Macron and there's the Prime Ministers so far who are very skilled. They take away some vines or possibly plums to Junker, and that's the deal, so we see that the man is unnecessarily rocking and that's the European Union, and that's why young people are leaving. More obedient than those who fight for the people, and for what the people choose them. There are very few people who have been chosen to fight for the people, it's the greatest shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108142	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. While you were arguing, I got a call from a friend and he said he was watching a new TV show earlier, the show "Crazy, Confused, Normal" and he went outside and I guess his wife changed the channel and when he came back he didn't know if it was the sequel to that show or if this was a direct transmission from the Parliament. So I told him it wasn't the sequel to the series "Crazy, Confused, Normal", then my colleague Bulj discusses the Law on Fiscal... Thank you. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108144	My dear colleague Bacic, you did not stick to the subject either. Here's my friend Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108145	A man asks me all the time: "What are you doing there, Miro, so it's like watching a movie there at the time of Al Capone? So let's say that when I remember where you were at the Ministry during what you were doing from this state, so you destroyed it, you're the vermin of this country. Do you know how much damage you've done to this country? No matter what he lets go, you opened, closed, robbed, afraid of tunnels. So you know what you were doing? Media, arrested, located, transferred. Well, I don't know what you're not. Of course you're too wise, you're comfortable with a tie, too smart, precisely measured statements from the Ban Courts here your superiors and that's that, and that's that. And of course your voice bothers you normally. It bothers you. You have a problem with that. What are you going to do now? But the fact is that this one, just let me tell you for a second, you clapped on Sanader, and Karamark, and Kosorica, and Plenkovic and you have no problem with it obviously.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108146	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I would ask you nicely in your discussion, in your answers you do not disrespect any MPs because no one has disrespected you. Here's a colleague of Bačić's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, here's half an hour you and your colleague, so Article 238, so you hurt me and members of the HDZ Club, and all night, half an hour you and your colleague Grumoja, a colleague of Pranjiæ, are making fun of the HDZ account. You're trying to be comical. When you get back a little bit, you get your nose hanged right away, you're hit right away, you're having a hard time getting any kind of humor going on your tab. If you are willing to make fun of the HDZ or my personal account, or anyone else, then be willing to accept it, not immediately whine, and cry and insult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108148	I thank my colleague Bačić. I've already warned my colleagues, and I'm asking all of you once again not to disrespect anyone and I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been harmed. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108149	Thank you very much. Injury of Rules of Procedure 238. This is what you said I was insulting. I'm happy when you mention me when you talk. You're funny, by the way. When I look at you, people say when they look at you they just laugh, they just look at you when they're laughing at them, that I just can't believe what you're talking about, what things you're saying, that you talk like you live on Mars and not in Croatia or somewhere where you simply can't come together with what you need and what's real to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108150	I thank my colleague Bulj Kola Bulj [[Intruder Bulj: It is your democratic right, the people chose you it is your right to say what you want.]] I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. [[Intruder Bull: Thank you.]] I've already warned all my colleagues and I'm asking you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure Institute. Here's my colleague, Grumo, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108151	Article 238 has been injured. My colleague Bačić is speaking inappropriately to the representatives. No one's been crying here. In fact, I enjoyed the demoralization of Miro Bulj. I enjoy here all the time watching what a man does to you in 11 and 42, and he's a Miro year and he's been through the whole war. It would be logical for him to sleep, and here he has the best moments of this late night.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108152	I also don't think a respected colleague is a injured Rules of Procedure. I would ask you nicely and appeal to all of you, the Croatian public is watching us and keeping the level of debate at a level that is fitting to this House of Commons. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108153	Mr. Vice President, Article 238. I wasn't laughing. I don't know, I didn't disrespect you. I was just telling the truth, and the truth is you were opening the works in 2009. This one I'll hand you the paper... I'm just saying the actual situation, and I'm sorry that it's all that, it's a tragedy for people and the Vrgorje region and Podbijokovlje and Dalmatian islands, which is not a final investment, there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108154	Thank you. You have the same answer as your colleague Pranic. I don't see any damage to the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with the debate. Dear colleague Marin Schibola, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108155	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Here we are in these tiny nights discussing a lot of serious issues, fiscal responsibility, fiscal consolidation. Actually, I'd call those terms euphemism for austerity measures. The deepening of recession in the euro zone that has turned into economic depression on the scene has led to economists, politicians and other scientists reviewing these fiscal programmes, and fiscal criteria and increasingly expanding throughout the European Union. Such an order is being reviewed because it is clear that such order is based on financial centralisation, that such order is based on one capital that takes over the main flows, which is taken over by strategic state-owned companies and which will not stop until it takes full control of the entire European Union system. The fact is that the euro is a critical area and that in this context there must be a balance between austerity measures and measures to promote growth and the economy. Often, Mr. Maric, the finance minister, boasts that the state is in a surplus, as we are progressing towards the surplus, but there is no question of whether such a tendency only towards surplus can make economic development, economic progress and somehow get this country out of economic and debt slavery. Economic science on the exit of the southern European Union from deep economic depression is divided. One part of the scientific elite is responsible for further tightening of the belt and for further saving, and the other part of scientists is more prone to the quantitative layoff of the European Central Bank by offering money so-called money. monetary doping. I'm going to give some examples, but in any case we should mention one form in which this government has also favored banks. You've had a recent law on residential subsidisation of loans for young people, and it's simply prescribed that the state, from state, from state income, is subsidizing interest rates to private foreign banks. So, directly from the state budget, there is a deficit for certain private banking cartels, meaning this Law on Residential Loan Subsidisation. We don't have state banks. So such measures for young people, about the housing subsidisation of loans, must go through state banks. Iceland has two state banks, I'll give you an example of Iceland, but before an example of Iceland, I'll mention one situation that happened in Ecuador. In Ecuador, the finance minister was Rafael Korea. And then Rafael Korea from the World Bank International Monetary Fund spoke of this fiscal consolidation, deficit cuts, spending cuts, and gave him these directives and instructions. He had to cut pensions, he had to cut salaries in the public sector, he had to privatise state resources and so on, and so on. And what did this man do? He said I don't want to do this to my own people, I don't want to work against my own people, I resign as finance minister, and the man resigned. And I call now on Mr. Maric and you to consider the move, because after Rafael Korea resigned, he ran for president of the state, and during that campaign, the media, and the banking elite, wanted him blacked out, but he won those presidential elections and became president of the state. Today, Rafael Korea is the president of the state, but he was the finance minister, who refused to implement austerity measures. That's what matters what we need to know. At the beginning of the financial crisis, the Icelandic government had the same dialogue with the International Monetary Fund and they suggested these financial adjustments, i.e. fiscal adjustments if they wanted from the Icelandic Government to help them from the International Monetary Fund, give loans and so on. And Iceland has spent three years of these fiscal adjustments and said let's try, we'll try, if these fiscal adjustments, uh, result in a better life for our citizens, we've done a good job. But within 3 years, during that period, they saw that these fiscal adjustments do not result in a better life for citizens of Europe's northernmost state. And then the president of Iceland, what did he do?, said we will look for certain alternative solutions. What were these alternative solutions? These alternative solutions were that the burden of the financial crisis was not shifted to citizens' savings, but that the burden of the financial crisis was shifted to the financial sector, to banking institutions, to credit institutions that created the economic crisis, because the citizens of the European Union did not create an economic crisis. The economic crisis has been created by private banking cartels, which are in debt to the states, and you are serving them. And if this wasn't just on words, I took out the data. Portugal, Ireland, Greece, Spain, are in debt to the Intesa Sanpalo banking conglomerate EUR 61.70 billion. The same countries are in debt to a banking conglomerate from the Spanish city of Bilbao BBVA, EUR 60 billion, the Italian Unit is in debt to EUR 51.4 billion, and so on, and so on. In Iceland, they think differently. And Sigurjonsson, a representative of the ruling centrist progress party, proposes that the Central Bank become the only money maker, since in Iceland as well as in other modern market economies, it currently controls only the production of banknotes and coins while the rest of the money is created by commercial banks through credit lines. According to Sigurjonsson's idea of establishing a state monetary system, the central bank would become the only creator of new money that Parliament would then decide on. When such solutions are proposed that the central bank implements a more expansional monetary policy, it takes back power over the creation of money from private banks, then the financial sector is driven by attacks, manipulations and diaphas of any one who proposes it. Their first thesis is to get inflation. Watch out, get inflation if the central bank makes money and puts it into circulation through the budget deficit, means through the state budget. They say there will be inflation. However, when private banks create non-existent money by multiplying credit and deposits, they pump up the monetary system, then no one says there could be a huge credit inflation, no one is questioning it. However, as soon as these solutions are put in place immediately Jutarnji List, Hanza Media attacks and seeks to discredit any economist who suggests such a thing. In any case, what should be said to Croatian citizens is that the IMF requires privatisation and sales requirements, all sales mean the banking sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108156	I would like to thank my colleague Schibol for this debate. We have several replicas of respected colleague Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108157	Dear fellow Skibola, in this late hour it's really nice to hear you like the youngest representative think about difficult topics as a layered economist. But I'd like to ask you something about that. Whether it is realistic to expect that the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility will act as expected of it in a state where the judiciary does not work, in which we already have the Committee for Conflict of Interest and then it is more or less of an idea that USKOK is not doing what needs to be done. But let's go back to one example. You see from the budget, the shovels were thrown in shipbuilding subsidies, no one ever looked into what happened to that money. Last year, an inspection by the Ministry of Finance was sent, they made a report nine months ago, the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister were not allowed to publish it, and we don't know what was going on there. All the commissions and none of that, what do you think about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108158	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic, for his response to Skibol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108159	Thank you. Dear Representative Lovrinović, it should be said that these commissions have some decorative role to play means they have no decision-making role, it is decided at some higher instance and these decisions are only implemented, so that these different commissions are a pure public story and that in fact some party personnel would be placed in those commissions that would eventually spread some of their interests and thus the political system would work. But you have touched one important topic, which is the failure of the Croatian judiciary. So the Croatian judiciary is so embarrassing that Croatian citizens do not believe in the judiciary at all. And without a more functional and faster judiciary, we have nothing to talk about at all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108160	Thank you, dear fellow Skiboli. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108161	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Skibola, you are aware that at this moment when we are talking about fiscal responsibility that few people are looking at us at this time and I'm going to read you what people are, here I am getting messages so I stopped one here because it's a place, i.e. The island where the fellow Boric comes from, and you're close. "Dear Croatian MP, the Governments in the Parliament are full of the Law on Islands but no one has thought to make life easier for people on the island by reducing any giving or imposing. The specific thing is that Croatia is running through local businesses of the island's citizens' racketeering. For used water of 30 kuna, more than 200 kuna is charged. Thank you for understanding. It's about Rab Island." I'm sorry he's not a fellow Boris, he's the same from there, you are, so yet individuals follow and all you said is right and all this story is basically both in this law and in all laws is fog. when we have to pay for the water. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108162	Dear fellow Bull. Come in, Mr. Schibol's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108163	Thank you, Mr. Bull, for one constructive thought. Well, you see, these budget plans are simply envisaged so there's not too much room for some social solidarity. Here, it's just what's supposed to be done that way. And what awaits us in the future are the increase of retirement borders, longer working hours, the flexibility of the labour market means that workers will not be protected but employers will have greater powers and simpler ways to use these cancellations. So what should be said to Croatian citizens is that we no longer live in capitalism today, we live in a hypercapitalist society where capital collapses everything in front of us, workers and small people are not at all important in the whole story.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108164	Thank you, dear fellow Skiboli. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few days ago, there was a debate on the Committee on Finance and the state budget on the proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and I discussed it there. Among other things, it is predicted that in addition to the mentioned members, therefore, from the institutions, one member of that commission will be from the CNB. I suggested that if so, then someone from the Committee on Finance from the State Budget should sit in the Council of the CNB or someone from the Ministry of Finance at the Council of the CNB, so that a handsome or desirable, let's say, amongst the influences, one and the other. Now you see here, all the time the CNB's been going in, let's say, everywhere or someone's making it harder for her to be everywhere, that she's giving everyone what to do, but there's no one there at the Council. See, that's one problem. And what I suggested, instead of the CNB, its member, to be one respected representative of the academic community from some institute, college because we have excellent experts in the Republic of Croatia. But now let me move on to some other angles on this bill, you see. This bill makes sense to the regulated states, it has simply come as a warrant from Brussels, as we like to say, that the Republic of Croatia also introduces a Committee on Fiscal Responsibility, which so far existed, but, here it is now professionalized, it will have a particularly separate office, it will not meet here in the Parliament, as if it were not under the auspices of politics, imagine in the Parliament, and the Parliament is completely subordinated to this institution across the road here, the Square of St. Marka, it's the government, so our political system is a fully respected citizen who follows us into this late hour, he's completely turned on his head. Instead of being appointed as the Supreme Institution of all, he came into a position to be a servant, a servant to the Prime Minister, and to people who are, therefore, loyal to him or her. So, I don't see, it's not going to benefit from the Fiscal Responsibility Act, that law is normally needed, it's welcome to oversee, regulate power, what it will do, how it will spend. I already said, release the Ministers finally that report about how state subsidies are being spent in Shipyards, you sent a team there in 7 months last year, half a year they worked there, a report was made, you said in an interview that you couldn't publish, if that was such a crime down there, if those billions were really criminally spent, if someone threatened you, so you can't publish. I also asked the prime minister and he avoided it. We see that here, and now what the poor Committee of Fiscal Responsibility will do in a state like this where it doesn't respect, where the judiciary, the law, etc. doesn't work. Okay. Let's go a little bit and concretely because you know that we from the Party Change Croatia do not talk about impressions, we are not people sensationalists, populists, we are not clients. Let's see how Italy stands, for example. You may have wondered, Mr. Minister, here are the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, who I also welcome to this late hour. You see, when the European Monetary Union was founded, right, the Euro Zone in 1999, and formally introduced EURO in 2001, then several countries, be careful, double-crossed the master's public debt criterion. You know that as a doctor of the economy. Italy then had over 120, 130% of the public debt compared to GDP. Belgium had Portugal and several other countries and a master criterion of 60%. So you tell us why these countries could have even entered the Eurozone, accepted the EURO and since then have not reduced their public debt. Italy, here, has 130% of public debt compared to its GDP and is still in the Eurozone. And you're pushing us, you're gonna get us on that fast train, so to speak, according to Greece, according to the Greek script. Let's just hang out in Italy a little bit longer. You see, the letter of the European Commission, or Mr. Moscovici, writes to the Italian prime minister and says, "Listen, don't play, you have to cut the budget next year, you want it to be a 2.4% deficit, it's not exactly in line with our rules, you have to cut it even more significantly." It's the Italian prime minister's answer, we promised our people we'd do this, we won't betray him, we won't deceive him. Italy pays on interest annually only on its state debt of EUR 35 billion, which is twice as much as it stands out for education. They have a public debt of around 2 000 300 billion euros. When Italy swings, and is about to, they already pay, their rating has fallen, they pay a new borrowing 3.5%, even worse than us or there. So, are you wondering what will happen here in the Eurozone, in the EU, with the EUR, and you push us both with your hands and feet, just so that this prime minister of ours gets some credit, that he gets some function, and with the country and the economy, what happens, he doesn't care anyway. Now, you see, we're going back to Italy. Italy is the third largest economy in the EU, a huge economy, a respectable industry. However, they have more and more problems. And as my fellow Scybol here had just been well discussed, these countries are no longer able to tolerate the concept of tightness imposed by the EU and, above all, in this sense, Germany. They also offered the concept of saving and tightening the belt as a solution to Greece. So you see the situation in Greece today. Greece's public debt has increased to 180% of GDP. And listen to this, Greece will never reduce its public debt, in the end it will have to write off half its external debts first, and in the second half it will all have to be written off if it wants to stay in the European Union and the euro zone. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are serious tendencies, these are serious circumstances. This has to be considered. We're not one little girl, we're small, but we're not a closed economy. The Italian banks usually keep 40% of Croatian banking here. And now if Italy swings, do you have a script for it? No answer, no thinking about it. That's why I said the budget you suggested was unrealistic and it's too optimistic. And here's to ending it so I don't go all the way. I want to order from this place. We will not, as an opposition to the Party, change Croatia, see we stay until the end, if necessary until the morning we will not leave because these are important issues. We want to check every item you've brought here. We said that you favor first and foremost the owners of large capital, representatives at the expense of workers and pensioners. And I am convinced and I call on the citizens to come out in the next election, especially those who do not go out, in the first place, is the only way out of the way for you good people to get you around 800,000 who don't go out to the elections, who have been disgusted by politics because of all the failures to finally come out. You probably, I'm sure you think individually that it's best that you don't go to elections to tell them that you're the one, that you don't want to deal with them. They're looking forward to it right now. They want you to stay out of the election for the rest of your life. But go to the polls and you'll know who you'll vote for in that case. Maybe one of you thinks what this has to do with the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Well, that's a couple of excellencies that's important. Your vote in the elections will only change Croatia to finally come to the right people, honest, professional because this is simply what you see unsustainable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108166	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. It's a replica of a esteemed colleague of the Squibbles. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108167	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Lovrinović, you've touched many topics. However, one important issue is that Croatian citizens do not go to large-scale elections. So over 800,000 people do not go to elections, and the fact is that HDZ and SDP have created this system of party interest infrastructure that goes to elections more for their own interests than they are aware and responsible that elections are a key thing for the future of a country. And those citizens who feel that they are doing a good thing with their a politicism, actually doing a catastrophic thing and helping these party-interested infrastructures to keep us in those chains, shackles of debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108168	Thank you, dear fellow Schibol. You haven't said a word about the subject or the agenda point. So your replica is really groundless. But here, maybe Professor. Lovrinovic finds something in response to the agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108169	I'll go right in the first sentence. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. [[Invader Brkić: Here you go.]] All that is important and important, as well as the Fiscal Responsibility Act, is subject to political system and decision-making. Well, it's not debated in the Parliament about the Fiscal Responsibility Act by accident. So who's sitting here? So you see these 11 MPs who went to this mayor here to our biggest city, so are these the people who represent the citizens who chose them in the election? They deceived them, you see. And... When this law comes, it will be voted upon. [[You don't understand.]] But why is this budget, too, connected, why is it as it is? Who's he guessing to? Well, all those who put some numbers in their homes that fit them. Imagine how much money is going to come out of this in public tenders, meaning corruption from all of it. Therefore, only the outing of non-election people will turn the whole story in the positive direction of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108170	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lovrinovic. Final debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I know it's already hours late, but when we passed this law in 2010, then we brought it with one wish only, and that is to increase the responsibility of the budget users to the spending of public funds. But when we talk about this law today, colleagues and colleagues, did anyone today mention the opinion of the Committee on Fiscal Policy in his budget debate? Has anyone in recent years read the opinion of the Committee on Fiscal Policy that was not exactly in line with what the Government said about the budget? Rather, they warned of certain things, and while Croatia was in excessive deficit measures, the Commission was very warning about certain budget disproportionateities, budgetary plans, etc. But when you don't read the documents, it's all too high. But I only volunteered on behalf of the HDZ Club for one thing. If you had read Article 29 of this Law, then probably many discussions would not have gone in this direction, but would have gone in one completely different direction because this Committee on Fiscal Policy is primarily to say so by the working body of this House of Commons. Because Article 29 states that the Committee reports on its work at least once a year and no later than 1 July of the current year and for the previous year, at the request of the Croatian Parliament or the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the half-year, respectively. And if I could benefit from the possibility of this Article 29, and if we had a little better analyzed the composition of this Committee, I don't think that people who are in the membership of this Committee and because of their professional integrity would allow this report that they would submit to this House would go quite counter-experienced, counter-knowledge. However, when he wants to argue, when he wants to challenge something that is good and what is advanced, then everything and everything is talked about. So here tonight, neither the Commission's tasks nor the changes made by this Law nor anything were discussed at all, but simply because the ruling proposes it is not good. But I repeat, would the people of the previous committee call give their professional dignity because of some political pressure? It wouldn't be safe. And let's not let the people before we choose them, before they start to judge. Let's wait for their first report and then we'll talk about the work of that commission. We'd rather raise our hand for this commission to be teamed up in professional services so that they can prepare materials for us and that they can do certain analyses that should be independent. Because unfortunately, the kind of debate that's being held in this High House is something that has nothing to do with anything, and it's no wonder that people judge us the way they judge us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108172	I thank my esteemed colleague Shucker. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. I would like to thank Minister of Finance Mr. Zdravko Maric, head of state treasurer Ivana Jakir Bajo, Assistant Minister Stipe Zupan and advisers to Minister Ana Zoric for the reasons and answer. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-11-27-0.u108173	Final proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 403. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 99 votes and 3 votes against the Law on fiscal responsibility passed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning, we continue our work. Today, the first item is the Final Proposal of the Law on State Measurement and the Cataster of Realty. Afterwards we would work together two points Final proposal to amend the Law on the Compensation of Workers Professionally Exposured Asbesto and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Obligation of Health Oversight of Workers Professionally Exposureed Asbestos, so we would have the same topic and after that we would have a united debate on the following points, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on Food and Agriculture, the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties, therefore all of these topics are related to the Agency, the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Agency's Law on Agriculture and Food and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Amendments of the Law on the Law on the Protection of Plant Varieties. Do we agree with such a proposal? Thank you very much. Then we start at the first point today, it's: - Final proposal of the Law on State Measurement and Cataster Real estate, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 363 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us we have respected Dunja Magas, State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, please.
