ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66715	I thank you, Mr. President. The SDP advocates' club would ask for a break while it could still take 10 minutes to discuss the issue of gender ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66716	A colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66717	I thank the Honorable President, on behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, for a 10-minute break to discuss afterwards the public promise of the HDZ which has been given twice and which will obviously not be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66718	A fellow Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66719	Thank you. I'm looking for a break to talk about land books and catastros.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66720	I didn't get you, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66721	Land books.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66722	Land books, good. He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66723	Thank you, President, on behalf of the club MOST, I am looking for a break related to the World Bank's negative opinion and regarding the business plan for the Croatian highway for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66724	Okay. 4 we have requests, we'll continue at 9.45. [[It's 9:35 p.m.]] [[CONTINUES AFTER 9:45 A.M.]] Let's go with the debates, it's the first turn of the SDP's Club of Representatives and the esteemed colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66726	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, the last few days have intensified the debate on the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and it has accepted completely unacceptable and would dare to say crazy forms and perhaps it is time to say something about it and to focus on this in Croatian society in the Constitution and the laws of the given framework. Opponents of ratification of the Istanbul Convention as their largest reserve under the document highlight the mention of gender concepts. And they say it's about the introduction of so-called. Birth ideologies. It is not bad to remind in these five minutes of some valid regulations in the Croatian constitutional and legislative framework that mention gender and birth identity. Let's take it in a row. In 2008, in May, the government of the Republic of Croatia, should it be reminded that the head of the government was HDZ, it sent to the Croatian Parliament the Final Proposal for a Law on Discussion of Discrimination. I'll read you article 1 of that law. ‘This law provides for the protection and promotion of equality as the highest value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, assumptions are created for the achievement of equal opportunities and regulates the protection of discrimination on the basis of inter alia and gender identity.’ The HDZ government has passed the law, the Croatian Parliament has accepted a large majority of votes that each has the right to protect and promote equality and to achieve equal opportunities and protection against discrimination based on gender identity. But not only that, in Article 25, they prescribed that anyone with the aim of causing another’s fear or creating an hostile demeaning or offensive environment based on differences in, and among other things, their birth identity, would be punished with a fine of 5 to 30,000 kuna. What we have heard in the Croatian public these days would fill the Croatian budget with these penalties for creating in the mildest sense an offensive or humiliating environment in contrast to the birth identity as prescribed by the Croatian Constitution. This way, I call upon all those who, due to the withdrawal of public figures who have created a humiliating or offensive environment based on their birth identity and thereby injured their dignity, invite them to instruct the competent state attorney to finally punish those who promote offensive or humiliating or even hostile environments against persons because of their different birth identity. It's time for that kind of communication to be said enough. I also call on associations, bodies and institutions that have a legitimate interest in the protection of the collective interests of a particular group to refer a joint suit for protection against discrimination under Article 24 of the same law, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination proposed by the HDZ, whose member was then also the former president who said that the headstone is something that is not ratified by the Istanbul Convention. I would, however, like to read in this last minute the Constitutional Court's decision in a folk constitutional referendum on the definition of marriage which says "The rights of all persons, regardless of gender and gender, are protected to respect and legal protection of their personal and family life and their human dignity." These legal facts are today considered a lasting value of the Croatian constitutional state. According to this story, the gender identity in Croatia was completed and started 10 years ago when we joined the EU and I call on all those who have problems not to bring us back 10 years. I call on the state's attorney, I call on all those who have suffered the dignity to address this matter in future in the courts, and I commend the Prime Minister for insisting on ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66727	On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, it is now up to the respected colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66728	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will talk about promises, one important promise, a public promise from the HDZ that has not been carried out, means it was one simple lie. At the end of 2015, before the election, the HDZ promised Franak on the basis of their question that it would prescribe a methodology for determining the fixed interest margin in loans where the margin was not agreed. After that, nothing happens. It was the Karamark era. During the era of Prime Minister Plenkovic, HDZ again promises in July 2017 to the public association Franak to resolve the methodology for determining a fixed interest margin. A public promise. After that, I'm proposing a law to deal with. The law rejects the government of the Republic of Croatia and parliament. What's this about? The banks had to define, then comply with the debtors and finally negotiate interest rate change parameters on the basis of the law adopted at the end of 2013. The banks didn't contract it, they voluntarily defined it. After that, in a collective court trial, the court makes a final verdict on 13 June 2014, saying that the interest rates defined by arbitrary bank decisions are not valid, that they are unfair and worthless. The court also says that banks are not allowed to behave in this way or in the future. And then, the Franak Association is constantly trying to point out what the authorities are talking about and trying to solve the problem institutionally through the government. And every time he gets a promise that this problem will be solved. I received 78 signatures from MPs and MPs in the Croatian Parliament that this will be settled, in order to get an insufficient number of votes for such a law in the vote. I recently referred, recently, 2-3 months ago, to Prime Minister Plenkovic, whether and when the Government of the Republic of Croatia will launch changes to the Consumer Credit Act that will finally resolve the methodology for determining a fixed interest margin in loans in which it is not agreed and which will then finally be ordered by the banks that they must undoubtedly negotiate that margin with debtors in loans in which the margin is not agreed. Prime Minister Plenkovic's response was very simple, bureaucratic. We have no plans to amend the Consumer Credit Act this year. What would you, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ say to me if I spoke to you in public in front of the cameras and said publicly that I would support something that you need to support and I would not support it afterwards. Would I be a liar? Or would I be a nice gentleman? I wonder what you'd think of me. And how do you feel about yourself after you promised to solve this problem at the end of 2015. What do you think, Mr. Jandrokovic? You signed a document in which, in July 2017, it was promised to be resolved and what do you think of yourself as colleagues and colleagues from the HDZ after that promise you didn't make? And you won't even execute because I got a response from Prime Minister Plenkovic that it is not planned at all in 2018 to amend the Consumer Credit Act. I don't know. Look in the mirror and tell yourself who you are. Who are you? So I repeat once again, at the end of 2015 during Karamark you promised to handle it. In July 2017, with the signing of Secretary-General Jandrokovic, you promised to resolve it and finally get Prime Minister Plenkovic's reply that you would not solve it. I don't know how citizens look at your behavior. I don't look kindly, anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66729	Thank you. Let's move on. On behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, a respected colleague, Željko Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66730	Dear colleagues, here, today I will talk about a key topic which is the main brake for Croatia's development in the modern state, which is land books. All the plans, everything we talk about here, everything falls into the water, all the economic plans, economic development falls into the water if everything is impossible without records of land books and ownership of them. Fifty years of government of self-government anarchy has led to these books, they're totally this one, destroyed. Catastar is a mess, and it's not what some of these heirs want to hear. And what do we have today? Today land books do not show a true legal picture of real estate in the Republic of Croatia. What's going on? In 2004, a national programme was launched in 2003 to edit land books. The World Bank Fund financed the project and there was also this, of course, the Ministry of Justice, the Geodetic Administration and the courts. The key word is courts. What did the courts do to get rid of that anarchy in the field? In 2006, one was to be made, the project started to create a database where all these books would be digitized in one place. That's where they hired Ericsson Nikola Tesla, the Legal Competence Center, it's an Austrian company, and what do we have until today? The pilot project for this GIS, this unique information system was Zadar and Požega. What do we have in Zadar and Pozega today? Here, in 2004, there were 359500 pending cases in courts, when it comes to real estate and property-legal problems. And now what's going on today? Here, in normal countries, if you have satellite footage, geodetics, a sales contract, it proves it's yours, you're just showing paper. And we have total anarchy. Example one, here, I'll show you, from 2005, you've got a title that says this, in the garter, you can't stop illegal acts. That means you have a mob in the garters, who used this period to peel people in Croatia. There's only one department that needs to be set up there to see what's going on there. Here, that's 2005. In 2008, today she's screaming from the first cover of the Morning List screaming this, the alarming stalemate in the garters, why? We don't have a system. That's where these bandits come in. People come to me, for example. The man builds savings in Rijeka, builds a residential building, someone moves inside his apartment, and that illegal tenant is in contact with the court and with the grant. Some also found a bum on the road, took his credit card, went to the grant where they had their buddy and sold someone else's land, so I don't know... It's something for CSI Miami, only it's almost a daily phenomenon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] People build on other people's particles of building, nothing, we fit in place. You have here, for example. A good example here on that first page you have a picture of Mr. Ferescan from that party as it was called, KPH or HNS, I forgot, where he resold the land, earned 11 million kuna and got 6 months in prison, I don't know if he peeled it. I think he got a promotion ended up in Zagreb there in the City of Zagreb assembly and we forgot that. Here, without a paralegal system, without synergy between the courts, without a field store from that land-book reform, there's nothing. I would suggest soon that we in the Parliament declare this new hero Croatia, this is Prince Drpislav and put him somewhere square down here on, on, in the center of Zagreb, because this harra here, was born in '45. and today, he is harassing around Croatia, which some heirs do not want to hear, and left wing of the party. It's Prince Drpislav. He's with us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66731	The last debate of the Association of Independent Lists Bridge, a respected colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66732	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in a very good documentary show related to the road sector in Italy, it is very clear exactly who is part of the highway has a particular mafia, who maintains that share? And exactly what they're showing is the way they're pulling money out of the state budget. Why am I bringing this up? A bit of a similar situation is happening in Croatia. When we mention Croatian highways today, then the first association is the painting of the tunnel, the steps that we have left and right, so the left are more expensive than the right, napkins on which the commissions were written. And why am I saying all this? The total debt of Croatian highways, Croatian roads and highways Rijeka-Zagreb is 5.2 billion euros, billions of euros. The truth is today, our citizens, are a little confused with these numbers when we tell them a little bit, maybe they don't even have a sense of how much money that is. This is really huge money for a state like the Republic of Croatia, really big money, it's 11% of GDP. Only these years will be charged 2 billion pounds of interest. Croatia's highways received a loan of 22m euros and a 350m-euro guarantee there in April 2017. This was all aimed at a project to modernise the restructuring of the road sector. Reforms on governance, restructuring, planning and monitoring were envisaged. A year ago, also 50m euros, financing operational improvement and 200m euros to refinance part of the HAC debt. So to literally separate this into 2 parts, it's one operational or business restructuring, where they try to cut costs, and increase revenues, so that business will be rented at all. And the second is financial restructuring, where more favourable loans are sought, because the interest, which they take, excuse me, at the time the roads were built, were not adequate. Minister Maric is working on financial restructuring or finding a more favourable loan. And the World Bank gave money, so to repeat 22m euros last year, to help in this part of the operational restructuring of business and 350m euros in debt refinancing, means more favourable loans. And after the World Bank approved it after they went to work, there comes a shock from the World Bank or a shower, they say, nothing actually happened. Instead of reducing the number of employees by 7%, you increased them by 15%. Instead of cutting costs, you're increasing them. And we must not forget that all the debts, which Croatian highways, highways Rijeka- Zagreb and Croatian roads have, all these debts are covered by state guarantees. So all these debts will eventually be paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And it's about huge money. We therefore call on Minister Maric to speak seriously with Minister Butkovic. Let Minister Butkovic, if he has taken responsibility for setting up leaders in Croatian highways and when connecting Croatian roads and HAC ONCE, or to collect toll departments, if he is unable, do it in such a way as to make business more efficient, instead of getting into a new systematisation situation, so that workers get greater rights and now beware, he asks workers to be deprived of their rights, it does not go. That in normal, decent countries doesn't work. So let Minister Maric speak seriously with Mr Butkovic, Minister of Transport, and let them find a solution. This must be done, because look out for these reasons for the resignations of ministers in every orderly country. This is huge money and shame if the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have to pay for it tomorrow. The citizens have pleaded not to give freeways. They said they didn't want to sell highways. But if that's the case, and I'm coming from Slavonia to me to the nearest highway needs a hundred miles. When I'm talking to me, I'm talking about citizens who live with me. So if we have to pay for highways, then I ask those who are responsible for doing their job or let them resign today whether it's the director or the minister of traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66733	Thank you very much. Comrade Sagar, just one piece of information. I see you referred to the text that caused me a rather unpleasant mood yesterday, but then you should have said that the World Bank made a statement after that I don't know if you do. But for the sake of public interest, I'll read it. The World Bank is pleased during the road sector reform process in Croatia. Financial and operational restructuring continues in a satisfactory manner and in line with the letter of sectoral policy. Permanent cooperation is under way, including discussions on working documents between the bank, the Ministry of the Sea, transport and infrastructure, and three road companies, which is a common practice in each project. Here I think only because of the public's interest that the situation is not so worrying, but that everything is in line with what was agreed before. Let's go now, I know it's the Rules of Procedure, but there's a lie here. I am obliged as president to react and warn that what my colleague said is only half true, without having intervened until the end of what is a real fact. Here's a colleague of Petrov's.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66734	Chairman, I would just like to ask which article of the Rules of Procedure you have the right to comment on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66735	I have the right to comment if I see that there have been labour violations and rules that exist in the House, and here something is presented that doesn't suit the truth simply. So, I was obliged to intervene because of the public interest and to say that what was said has the other side of the medal and to warn that the World Bank itself came out with a statement and said that everything is fine when it comes to restructuring the debt of our road sector. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66736	The chairman has just violated article 238 for the reason that you disrespected parliamentary representatives because you stated that in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament it is clear that you must warn the truths. And I will remind you, you have told me that I have no right to warn the truth because untrue is not punishable to the Rules of Procedure at the moment that I have raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, it doesn't stand anywhere in your Rules of Procedure, and you had no right to do that. And what I'm about to say now in Mr. Sagar's defense he had every right to state everything and you're not the ones who are the metrics to explain what's true and what's not. You're not all-knowing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66737	Thank you. I'm not just reading what I got as a statement from the World Bank. There you go. All right. You have the right to an opinion. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66738	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You've hurt the entire Rules of Procedure, because the fact is that you can't, because you can't, so here's 238. We can list everything, because the President of the Parliament cannot be the spokesman for Minister Butkovic, nor his PR. And colleague Sagar told the absolute truth from the paint tunnels to the pirates of the expensive. The absolute truth is everything he said and he's right here, and you can't, President, you're the president and my HDZ MPs and the SDPs and you have no right to do this. Which is why you didn't do the same thing when your colleague Alexic was talking about laws, unfair laws, against laws that protect banks. That is, they don't even protect themselves simply, they're simply allowed by the government to do what they're doing. You didn't comment on him. Mr. Zhagar told the facts and he will refer in writing the question to Minister Butkovic, who is obliged to answer. You don't have the right to be a spokeswoman to anyone. You're the President of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u66739	Okay. All right. I think I had to react to the truth for, that's all. Let's move on to the debate. We are now moving to - Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2016. The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? With us is a respected colleague Tomislav Dulibic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75372	Mr. President, distinguished parliamentary representatives. The report contains combined data for 2016 on persons treated for drug abuse, drug abuse data, drug abuse data, and an overview of activities in the field of drug abuse, prevention, treatment of addiction and rehabilitation carried out by relevant ministries, counties in other and therapeutic communities. According to the results of the survey on the abuse of funds of the general population of the Republic of Croatia in 2015, some illegal drugs consumed 20.3% of respondents at least once in their lives. The most commonly used illegal drug in Croatia was cannabis. The lifelong prevalence of taking any new drug was 2.7%. Croatia is above the European average for the consumption of illegal drugs among young people and new drugs. A total of 2838 drug abuses were recorded in 2016. In 2015 there were 2878 or 5.1% of the total number of criminal offences reported during 2016. 8722 misappropriations were submitted for the initiation of a violation of the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse in 2016. During 2016, a record 11105 seized of all drug types totalled 24.5% higher than in 2015. In 2016, 11 types of new psychoactive substances were first discovered in the territory of Croatia. In total, 32 individual seizures of new psychoactive substances, mostly synthetic cannabinoids, were achieved. In 2016, 35 people died of overdose, while 54 people died of overdose in 2015. In 2016, there were 7106 people in the health system who were treated with 7533 persons for a reduction of 427 people compared to 2015, and it can be said that the number of people treated in the health care system continued for several years. As in previous years, the largest number of people have been treated for opiate addiction 84% and the proportion of non-opiate addicts is 162%. From 2008 to 2016 it is a relatively stable trend of treatment addicts. The estimated total public expenditure in 2016 was 841.8 million kuna and increased by 5.5% compared to 2015. the total specific public expenditure in the area of drug abuse in state and county budgets and the financial plans of public authorities and civil society organisations in 2016 amounted to €122.4 million. Of these, 47.8 million kuna were spent from the position of ministries and offices 38.1%), 7.7 million kuna from the budget positions of counties 6.2% of the total amount, 68.9 million HZZO 55% and 821.000 of civil society organisations. When we distribute that amount by program activities, we can conclude that 69.5 million kuna is spent on treatment activities, 37.3 million kuna on prevention programmes, 7.8 million kuna on damage reduction programmes, 6 million kuna on social reintegration, and 4.6 million kuna on the criminal repressive system. Although the assessment shows that a large amount of public expenditure is being spent on the prevention of drug abuse, it is on average only 0.61% of the total public expenditure or 0.24% of GDP. Measures and activities under the National Programme for Prevention of Dependence were actively implemented during 2016 in all educational institutions and in social care systems, in the protection of children's and young people's health and prevention of addiction. It is also continued with the continued implementation of the project to resociate addicts. Since 19 April 2007, when a resociation project was adopted by 31 December 2016, HZZ spent total professional guidance and assessment of work capacity for 958 addicts of which 272 treated addicts were involved in educational programmes, and 653 treated addicts achieved employment in public work and benefited from incentives for employment or obtained employment on their own. In addition, 775 addicts were entitled to education on the burden of the Ministry of Science and Education, and about 7300 addicts were involved in some form of assistance given to them by associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75373	We have five replicas, the first is a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75374	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to welcome Secretary Dulibic and his associate. The report is really quality written from it can be seen much, but I ask one question that causes me one significant dilemma, so from what we heard from the secretary of state, from what we read in the materials Croatia is, by all indicators, above the European average, by the number of young people who smoke, who consume alcohol, who consume other means of addiction. At the same time, we see that we are very successful in confiscating different means of addiction, and here we are the other day one of the 100kg of cocaine seized record. However, if we look at the number of drug addicts treated, it decreases year after year. So, in 2016, 7106 people were treated and 2015 were treated. 7533 which for 427 persons is less, and this trend has been going on for several years, which I think is not a good indicator. So someone might say it's good to treat less addicts. I think exactly the opposite is that if we see that the amount of drug being seized is constantly growing, we are above average by consumption and smoking and alcohol and other means of addiction, and at the same time the number of treated addicts falls. Every addict on the street is bound by new addicts, it's one chain of drug addicts' needs, so I'm curious why that number of drug addicts are falling because I think he would actually have to grow.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75375	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic. Answer, Secretary of State Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75376	Thank you very much. Mr. Jovanovic, the issue is that the number of treatmentd addicts of opiate addiction is dropping, and therefore the number of treatment addicts falls, for this reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75377	Thank you for your response to the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Kresho Beljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75378	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You said that Croatia is far above the EU average by the number of crimes, and as far as drug crimes are concerned. I think it is because in the good part of EU countries, cannabis as you said is not as illegal as it is with us, and then it significantly spoils our statistics, and I believe that as far as the use of cannabis is concerned, Croatia is absolutely at the same level with the vast majority of EU countries. I'll talk about tourism in Amsterdam, do you think tourism in Amsterdam is developed because Amsterdam is a beautiful city? No, for something else. Many Croats go there instead of the Dutch coming to us for that there are all predispositions. But I'm curious about the next question, you said that a certain number of people died from drug overdose. Do you know how many people died from drug overdose with marijuana or cannabis? And do you know at the same time how many people in Croatia died last year from an alcohol overdose that is completely legal, and how many people are on treatment from alcohol and how many Croatian families suffer from alcoholism that is completely legal in most of the alcoholic population destruction unlike cannabis that I've never heard of causing any aggressive behavior? But here I repeat the question, how many people in Croatia died because of a marijuana overdose?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75379	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beljak. Next replica, respected colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I appeal to the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and Action Plan, here we have a situation where, in the absence of ideas from the HSS, my colleague Beljak steals ideas of the Living Wall which are authentically related to the legalisation and cultivation of marijuana, the order therefore has no knowledge. I guess during today's debate, we'll find out that Stjepan Radic smoked marijuana. No country has legalised, therefore, Croatian law falls under more liberal laws within the EU. I could talk about a lot of psychic consequences that cause marijuana for hours. In the short term, marijuana has a far more destructive effect on the brain of a young man than heroin, so I appeal that we are not talking about the legalization of marijuana here, but that we are talking about a report on the national strategy and action plan. At least it should be so minimum correctness that parliamentary representatives prepare themselves when talking about certain points of the agenda, rather than going with some quasi-stealing stolen proposals from the Living Wall.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75381	I thank my colleague Cellic. I would ask you nicely, all other colleagues and colleagues, that in your presentations, in your discussions, in your replicas you do not disrespect any parliamentary representative or representative and that you do not enter a political niche of colleagues who have the right to express their political position and I would ask you to stick to the subject. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, Beljak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for stopping at my protection. He's hurt, of course, Art. 238. The Rules of Procedure, and I would beg just as much as you did, to discuss the report without mentioning me, and my colleagues would recommend that he roll up a joint and it would be easier for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75383	My colleague Belajl, so I have previously asked my colleague Cellic to behave in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then I ask you also, that you do not respond in the same way and do not abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. We're moving on to the next line. Dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75384	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In Europe, I think, 25 countries went into decriminalization of all drugs. They were guided by the idea, namely, that addiction is not criminal activity but that it is actually a condition, or that it is a disease. Let's say, in Portugal, when you get caught with a certain amount of narcotics, you come to a three-member council where you have a psychologist, you have a lawyer and you have a doctor. It's up to them to actually decide whether to punish you, whether to determine your therapy or not to do anything to you. So it's my question to you as an expert, which is actually what you think of decriminalizing all drugs in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75385	I would like to thank my colleague Matjana. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, in fact, something on the trail of what my colleague Matteljan said, is just as interesting to me as that example of Portugal. From 2001 to 2007, new drug abuse prevention policies can be brought into line with some data, and during this period the treatment increased, i.e. the people who started treatment increased by 60% approximately, the reduction of new HIV diagnosis associated with drug abuse fell by 17%, the decline in drug abuse deaths dropped to 1 million by 2012 and the European average was 17.3% per million. In general, drug abuse has been reduced among young people and drug abuse rates have dropped. So my question to you would be whether there have been any comparisons of their policies with ours, whether there might be any discussions to go on, to see how successful practices from other EU member states can be transferred to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75387	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. Answer? Nothing, thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ivan Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia therefore submits a report to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the national drug abuse strategy on the basis of the final provisions of the national strategy to combat drug abuse for the period 2012 to 2017. What is very important, therefore, to point out that for the period from 2018 to 2023 is before the end of the development of a national strategy to combat addiction. This time it won't be just drugs, but what my colleague Beljak was saying will be included both alcohol and tobacco as socially acceptable drugs and new so-called. non-substantial addictions like gambling. The drug abuse prevention policy is based on strategic targets to reduce supply and demand for drugs and a multidisciplinary approach to the implementation of programmes aimed at preventing drug abuse and preventing drug abuse. The coordination and monitoring of the implementation of national strategic documents shall be carried out by the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. It shall monitor trends and phenomena on an annual basis, and, depending on the results, propose additional measures and amendments to measures envisaged for a given period, if necessary. So here it is very important to point out that there is also a European Agency... which has its headquarters in Lisbon and Croatia, according to all indicators, as regards the system of treatment of opiate addicts at the very top always according to all statistical indicators, so I like to say, therefore, that as is the Croatian brand of transplant medicine, so is the issue of treatment of opiate addicts, however, we see that the number of opiate addicts is falling, but the number of non-opiotic addicts is growing, and Croatia needs to find models to prevent and treat non-opiotic addictions such as cannabis, such as psychostimulative drugs. [[The speaker speaks English, he doesn't understand.]] Here, a project to resociate addicts, create the Ministry of Labour and the pension system should be mentioned in order to encourage the employment of socially sensitive groups that definitely include and treat drug addicts. Therefore, continuing measures to encourage education and employment of treated drug addicts through professional guidance activities which, in principle, implements in a large part of the association, the therapeutic community, etc. A very important link is in the county commissions which are to be submitted once a year to the office of reports on the results of the implementation at local level. We know that in Croatia, the frequency of consumption of certain drugs is not equal, so the activity of the county commissions depends on it. But here I appeal to the Office of Drugs to find additional control mechanisms to ensure that all county committees work equally well and equally well that unfortunately we have a situation in certain counties that these county commissions are not at all active or very poor at all. The office also continued to develop a limited-access new drug base aimed primarily at education of all types of professionals, thus enabling access to a wide range of latest information. New psychoactive substances also pose a challenge and EU Member States face each in their own way. For example, Germany has a law on new psychoactive substances special, other countries have different legal regulations regarding the area and the preparation of a new law on drug abuse, and they also include the part related to new psychoactive substances. The funds were already mentioned, so the total specific public expenditures are 125 million and 360 thousand, and the estimated unspecified public expenditure in the area of drug abuse control in 2016 are 717 million 922 thousand of which 92% belong to public order and security, to health 7.2%, and to education and social protection 0.8%. Prevention programmes that are most important are implemented at 21st County level. Here I highlight the training of life skills carried out by the School of Public Health of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, which annually includes 10,000 pupils in primary schools. It is also worth mentioning small creative social groups that are being implemented in the cooperation of social care systems and educational institutions. Drug reports provide important additional information to the database on drug problems and provide a useful tool for decision-makers in designing policies and activities to address these problems. The problem of cannabis already mentioned in the 28 EU Member States differs from the current approaches to the regulation of cannabis and use from restrictive models to the tolerance of certain types of personal use. So what is very important is that no national government in Europe has expressed support for the legalisation of personal use cannabis. The story with Portugal is very specific, they have positive experiences, they are made and positive experiences in order to prosecute drug dealers that at this point in Croatia is the decriminalisation of drugs that if the assessment that it is for personal use then no longer goes to prison, there has been a prison sentence for up to three years but there is a legal safeguard of mandatory treatment of drug addiction. It is very important to mention in particular the pronunciation of this protective measure, education, conversations with psychologist, other experts a multidisciplinary approach especially for young people from 18 years of age. And there are also all the institutions that are related to the treatment of persons who abuse, who are recreationally taking certain psychoactive substances and therefore having behavioral problems is important engagement of all so that the situation that we have the number of treated addicts is becoming smaller and smaller. As for treatment, it is very important here to mention that only 10% of those who consume drugs will become addicts, so not everyone who takes some psycho-active substance becomes an addict, only 10% of them, but these are also huge numbers. What European trends are is a similar situation in the Republic of Croatia, so other than the cannabis problem that can be discussed in different ways, and it is very important that this area is because about 1% of adults in Europe almost daily consume marijuana. So what my colleague Beljak said, I understand his initiative, but I'm working on the Department for the Treatment of Addictions who, apart from the diagnosis of addiction, have some other mental disorder. Not everyone who consumes marijuana ends up in a hospital, but almost 20% of research from Sweden says that almost 20% of those who have the first psychotic disorder that entering schizophrenia is related to cannabis consumption up to five times. And that's why it's important that we speak in fact that we don't go cheerleadingly to respect the issue of professions, and that's why we should be very careful when we bring certain courts without consulting with the profession. The important area is also psycho-stimulating drugs, so after the fall in the early 2000s, the last few years have seen a major increase in the consumption of psycho-stimulating drugs that is once again related to the recreational use and intravenous use of psycho-stimulating drugs that has led to an increase in the incidence of HIV and Hepatitis C, which again requires new challenges from agencies by roofing institutions dealing with this problem. So cocaine consumption is higher in the countries of Western and South Europe, and the consumption of amphetamines and other psycho-stimulating drugs is more common in Northern and Eastern Europe. What is also a big problem is that more and more laboratories have been discovered recently to produce these synthetic drugs in Europe, which is an additional difficulty for police and other bodies. There is also an increase in overdose with fatal outcome. This increase in death-related overdose is mainly related to opiates and substitution therapy, which is very functional in the Republic of Croatia, however, as in some other countries Denmark, Ireland and France, an increasing increase in death-related overdose with methadone. And in the end, I conclude with the statement of the President of the Management Council of the European Agency... which has said that the emergence of drugs has to be developed and Europe's response. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Understanding the challenges ahead is the first step in achieving that. The promotion of evidence-based culture, the adoption of a drug policy is a key contribution to a healthier and safer Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75389	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Kresho Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75390	Dear Mr. Celic, there's a lot of drugs in the Republic of Croatia, I've asked the secretary of state how many people died because of alcohol that's completely legal, completely legal. And that's one huge problem that nobody just wants to talk about. Although it's a lot of drugs, but it's really a lot of drugs and a lot of addiction. I believe, however, that the biggest dependence in our country is dependence on government and dependence on the spending of state money that is particularly visible with you HDZ members. You were addicted to dr. Evey Sanader, you were all addicted to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, you were addicted to Mr. Tomislav Karamark, today you're all addicted to Mr. Andre Plenkovic and tomorrow you'll all be addicted to someone new and that's the biggest problem that unfortunately doesn't have for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75391	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beljak. I have already asked you and my colleague Celić not to talk about topics that have nothing to do with today's debate, so I ask you to really control these discussions. My colleague Cellic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75392	So here's to the problem of alcohol and tobacco consumption, which is what my colleague Beljak was talking about. When compared to data for students between the US and EU countries, last month's consumption of European students related to alcohol was 49% of students in the EU consumed alcohol while 22% in the United States. As for last month's tobacco consumption among US students, it is only 6% and 23% in the EU. I would also agree with this and, of course, many times when we talk about drugs, the fact is that much greater phenomena and much greater problems are related to alcohol consumption or tobacco consumption in minor relationships. As for dependence on power, I agree that it may be a new diagnosis in some new diagnostic and statistical manuals. And my colleague Beljak has shown that he is an expert in addiction because more and more prominent members of the HSS are coming out because he is an expert in detachment from the true traditional values of HSS, so there may be a new diagnosis in some new diagnostic manual.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75393	I thank my colleague Cellic for his reply. Since you're an expert in addiction, then you're competent, but please don't speak out of the question. And your colleague Beljak is not in your office, but you are in the Croatian Parliament. Next replica, respected colleague Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank you for your very informative discussion. And I thank you, in fact, for looking back at some of the questions that were actually asked here. I would agree with you on this latest quote, so that we must bring policy on the basis of facts, and that is why I have asked the secretary of state about various European practices, I think it is very important. And in that sense, I think that if it's good, especially this aspect of the new view I'd say perhaps alcoholism and addiction to tobacco products. We have to be careful, I think we live in a time when there really are some masks and some kind of mystification from earlier times when both tobacco lobbyes and these lobbys of the alcoholic-drinkers have some influence on politics. We must put our citizens in the front row of our interest, and as much as it may sometimes be more or less popular as was the case with the ban on smoking in public places in time, we must somehow put public health in the focus of our interest. It's just for me, here, if I can be allowed, I'd just like to add one more thing here. Representatives of the executive authority come here to actually respond to the Croatian Assembly. Mr. Secretary of State should be embarrassed that he did not answer the opposition question, they were not offensive, they were not offensive, they were very constructive. So much, and to you, Mr. Colic, thank you for actually taking part of the responsibility that people who sit in front of us have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75395	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. Col. Glavasevic, the Rules of Procedure have established that it is possible to use the right to reply to a replica or not, I hope that the Secretary of State in his closing statement will respond to your replicas, as we parliamentary representatives can, too. So I hope that your appeal to the secretary of state will be as an incentive to respond in the final word to your replicas. Before answering, I would like to ask you all to welcome together at the student gallery, i.e. students o.š. Yankee Lescovar from the Prescrib, welcome. Thank you very much. Answer, dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75396	Thank you. A colleague of Glavasevic, as you yourself said, is not the same situation in Croatia either. So the best programmes and the highest quality programmes are Istria County, Primorje-Gorski County, Split-Dalmatia County, City of Zagreb. Why? Because unfortunately there is the biggest phenomenon, unlike Lika-Senj County, Bjelovarko-Bilogorska, Požeko-Slavonska where these figures are much, much less. What I mentioned about the U.S., they have much better, better quality programs and much greater supervision in certain situations and certain restrictions that have led to a reduced incidence of tobacco consumption and alcohol consumption among students. But what I want to stress again, therefore, what was current 10 years ago is not current and should be respected by evidence-based professions and based on these evidences should be created national policies, means the EU policy created by the European Agency but also by each country, depending on the situation it faces and depending on the problems it faces, and in this respect, it is important to adopt this national strategy for the period 2018 to 2023. I hope she'll be on the benches soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75397	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75398	Thank you very much. A fellow cell, alcohol and alcohol addiction is one of the key and greatest causes and violence in the family. But here we see upstairs and elementary schoolers, when the sports event on public television even the promoter can be a manufacturer of alcohol. So we promote on public television, for example. Sports event, some football game, all our young people watching, our students the game and the alcohol is the main one, meaning the sponsor of the entire league, very important in Europe. Does that mean prevention of addiction, not violence? No, I don't. But through sports, through what should be a healthy life, they advertise and therefore raise money. How do you stop it? How do these interests, interesting lobbys stop them from promoting alcohol as a key problem? That's how it is with drugs, which are addictions. Of course, they catch a man with two joints or, but these drug dealers around the school are famous in local self-government, so I don't see that there's any synergy between the police and even this other part of the sanctions. Those who earn money are too many interests and, in particular, we can see it in this part where the main promoters, the main sponsors of numerous football matches, very important sports events that public television, and even commercial transmissions that sponsors and newspapers in the media, can see promoting alcohol, alcohol. And secondly, the sanctions for domestic violence over alcohol. We have clubs that are treated alcoholics who have taken that obligation and no one is obliged to finance them and they are obliged to take care of the man who made the violence because of alcoholism. They get that assignment from the judiciary, and no one's obliged to fund it. Therefore, there are great interests here and here they are punished very little and those who have money pay ads for very important events.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75399	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. My colleague Cellic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75400	Well, here's fellow Bull, you've asked a lot of questions, I'll try to be brief. Yes, the fact is that you have national teams that are the beer industry now I'm not going to mention a single beer major sponsor. But it's not just a question of alcohol consumption that has a lot of negative consequences, so look at the big leagues of Europeans who are major sponsors, sports bookies. So also one big problem as alcohol destroys family as well as gambling destroys family, leads to the destruction of numerous families and there is a society hypocritical and there is also a legislator hypocritical. You mentioned clubs of treated alcoholics, so the clubs of treated alcoholics are the invention of Croatia, Professor. Vladimir Hudolin, therefore a prominent Croatian psychiatrist who is a world voice, has founded clubs of treated alcoholics and this philosophy is present today in many European countries, for example in Scandinavian countries that are our role model for certain health standards services. Again, the problem is with local and regional self-government units. In the City of Zagreb, the City of Zagreb is funded through the competition of all clubs of treated alcoholics. But you have, like, a situation in the whole of Zadar County, there's only one club of treated alcoholics. Why is that? Because local self-government units don't transport these clubs of treated alcoholics and they're unfortunately shutting down.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75401	I thank my colleague Cellic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75402	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Cellic, perhaps it is an opportunity to extend this debate on one subject. But before that, I'd agree with my colleague Bull, and somehow, those commercials are really good. Sometimes I get into a beer commercial, and then when the movie comes, I feel bad about the commercial ending. It's about the tolerance of society to certain behaviors. So the more tolerated society is, the more acceptable that behavior is. I can paraphrasing a Slavonic song, we're born with alcohol, we die with alcohol. Somehow here's the alcohol you drink on many occasions. However, what I would like to ask you as an expert, namely, one representative in the European Parliament Mrs Biljana Borzana advocates banning minors, consumption, purchase, consumption of energy drinks. Here, one British study, and I'm glad that there are young people up here, says this, eating only one can, one energy drink, I'm not going to say which one increases the density of blood and thus the risk of blood clots and, for possible heart effects, scientists accuse two ingredients of that drink that are extremely dangerous when they enter into the organism together, caffeine and taurine. Only one hour after the subjects drank that energy potion, their blood flow was no longer normal but looked if the one in patients with cardiovascular disease and increased blood density and decreased blood vessels' ability to break these clots were a very dangerous situation especially if someone had other risk factors. And then we still have to add with the energy drinks to the consumption of alcohol. Since I'm also a parent, I'm aware of how young people actually consume those drinks, and they advertise, in terms of giving you wings and so on. And what do you think as an expert should support this initiative or is there a danger if the ban further increases consumption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75403	I thank my colleague, Sagar. My colleague Cellic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75404	Well, you mentioned at the beginning a colleague named Sagar, so socially acceptable drug is alcohol in Croatia. Unfortunately, it's a fact, and what you said with alcohol, you're born with alcohol, you die with alcohol. On all occasions, from birth to death, he always toasts himself to alcohol. And let's say the treatment system in Croatia where the complete abstinence of alcohol as the goal of treatment is different from the countries of northern Europe where you learn how to drink, right, they have no problem with the daily consumption of alcohol than with the weekend of drinking and one of the reasons is that the price of alcohol is very, very high, in some countries even slightly easter Russia, Belarus, there you can't buy alcohol there at all until 17, 18 hours because they are also faced with a major problem of alcohol consumption. You mentioned the issue of high-energy drinks, and I appreciate the efforts of the Croatian representative in the European Parliament, Biljana Borzana, who talked about it the most, so there are two problems. These are high-energy drinks, one of the problems is high sugar levels and another problem is psycho-stimulants. There are a number of studies that talk about potential adverse consequences especially in young people. What should certainly be introduced, it was also already about this not only on my part but also by some other parliamentary representatives to introduce additional excise duties on these high-energy drinks, and let's say those excise duties could go to a fund for particularly expensive medicines, and then, for example, for children with spinal muscle atrophy, you could get a cure if the profession said it was medically indicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75405	I thank my esteemed colleague Cellic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75406	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Celić, there is no doubt that HSS and our club will support this report and that we support all efforts and agencies, units of local and regional self-government as well as all associations that do much to shed light on the harmful effects of any drugs, alcohol, betting and what the monsters of the modern age are and what should surely be said here that I do not agree with you when you say that you want a healthy Europe. Yes, and we want a healthy Europe, but first of all we want a healthy Croatia and the health of people living in Croatia and within the EU, and I don't think it's even a good message that you delivered from this pay phone that only 10% of the people who take some intoxicated drugs or something like that will end up in the hospital. In other words, you encourage them to consume because they won't all end up in a hospital. When we talk about it, we should also pick words and watch what we say, okay, these are statistics that you follow, you're an expert in this area, but we have to send a message to young people to take care of them in a way that they don't get jobs, that they don't move out, that they don't have a future, and that when they don't have money, when they don't have something to offer their family, some safer future, then they decide on both drugs and alcohol and betting to find happiness in some kind of money that they don't have without work. There is no such thing, we need to get serious, this is a good vice president of the Parliament, this is no one's office, this is a Croatian Parliament where we bring laws that need to improve the quality of life in Croatia and then there will be fewer drug abuses and of course we're not addicted to power and we're happy to be in power and we don't do much for those young people we're all talking about and giving them bad messages, we should send positive messages so we don't go to the part we talked about here, there's a lot of bad examples, I want everyone in this area to be on the trail that young people live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75407	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. My colleague Cellic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75408	Well, colleague Vlaovic, I don't know if you're that old or new HSS, so I'm not talking cheerleader here, I'm talking here based on scientifically well-founded facts. I can't talk about anyone who consumes drugs becoming an addict if scientific research says only 10% will. So, on the one hand, you're talking to me as an expert who's been working for 15 years on the fact that I'm not allowed to tell the truth, and the other side is the president of your party who advocates legalizing marijuana. And when I talk about these adverse consequences, then you deny it and we haven't heard it. I quoted the President of the Management Council of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, and I agree with you, so we are primarily in the interest of healthy Croatia because Europe's health without a healthy Croatia will not be.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75409	I thank you for your response to my colleague, Cellic. I ask you again, my colleague, in your answers, that you do not leave the topic and that you do not in any way insinuate or disrespect fellow parliamentary representatives. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr. Whiteman.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75410	Dear Vice President, I believe that the injured Rules of Procedure, Article 238, again Mr. Celic is talking about HSS, I think that this is neither the time nor the place to talk about it here, I know that the wish of fellow Cellic and all the people in HDZ that the oldest Croatian party disappears, we will not disappear, and you will ask yourself what coalition potential is for you and ask yourself who you will be with when someone who is holding the majority of you, with whom you will manage. And I tell you with no one. You are enough for yourself, avoid HSS because you can learn from us and your first president has called on Radic, and you call on Radic and leave us alone in HSS, you have done us a lot of evil, we as Christians forgive you everything, whoever stoned you with bread, we will throw bread at you and you will continue to destroy not only the HSS but also the other parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75411	Dear colleague Beljak, I have already told you not to abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and not to speak outside the subject as I have told my colleagues. I also warned my colleague Cellic and you, and don't do what you don't want anyone to do to you and the same thing that your colleague Celic said, that's what you're saying. On the other hand, we have a voice in the Croatian Parliament, we all hear very well, you don't have to raise your tone by speaking freely in a normal tone, I don't think it's a injured Rules of Procedure and I thank you. Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75412	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear colleague Celic, given that I am following the online line, a new area is opening up, which is quite dramatic, which is buying these psycho somatic cannabinoids via the Internet. And now, as far as I've been able to see, and I'm not an expert here, there's really no control in Croatia, and other than that traditional control at children's playgrounds around the school, etc. where they exchange these pills that have tempting names, smiles, sugars, magic dragons, miau miau, they hit the head in a few minutes, growing this on line area. It may also be a matter for the secretary of state, in which way to jump, whether it is a problem to be solved between the two resolution ministries and whether we have any plan at all on the subject, given that, according to some unofficial information, one of these seductive tablets is imported on a monthly basis from China, all of these are systemic cannabinoids, which actually permanently damage the brain, and children are already going into that line of purchase at 13 years of age, without any control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75413	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, reply from my colleague Celic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75414	You have touched two areas, the first area related to these new addictions, which are not, therefore, taking a certain psychoactive substance, which then affects the brain and modifying our behavior. So, more and more of those so-called. on the line betting, etc. and there is a question of parental supervision and the question of how to make restrictions especially for minors from 18 years of age. new psychoactive substances where actually EU countries and Member States are looking for modals to find situations and there is a very important multidisciplinary approach. So there is not enough just the Ministry of Health, but there is also a question of the Ministry of the Interior, the issue of customs and individual countries. So, what's special, so it's not just China now, so the Far East, but the problem is that these synthetic drug production laboratories are also found in EU countries, which makes it very difficult, therefore, in Belgium a major laboratory was destroyed in 2013 in the Netherlands in 2014 and so on. The dark web market, therefore, is not the common Internet, but the dark web market is very complicated, but there is therefore a question by the authorities to control it and to reduce abuse and thus exist in the Republic of Croatia, and therefore, the association for safer Internet and there is also, therefore, an important question, and a resolution of the Ministry of Demography of the Family and Youth and Social Policy. Therefore, it is a very important multidisciplinary approach and there is the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse very good working in the Republic of Croatia and is coordinating in some way with the Deputy Prime Minister who is in charge of this portfolio, for social activities, trying to reduce and thus drug abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75415	I thank my colleague Cellic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of SDP Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75416	Thank you, chairman of the state secretary, with a representative of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, colleagues and colleagues. A report on the implementation of the national strategy and the action plan to combat drug abuse in 2016 is really good and instructive, which can lead to a whole series of conclusions that can improve our fight against further drug spread. We can see from the report, a demonstration of key drug policy areas with an emphasis on the most significant trends and new developments in drug and addiction issues. We agree that the drug abuse policy must be based on strategic objectives, reduction of supply and demand, as well as a multidisciplinary approach to the implementation and programmes aimed at preventing drug abuse and addiction. What we can see from the report is that a significant step has been made in accepting strategic thinking and approach to creating an answer to the problem of addiction, as well as providing targeted education, for a network of professionals and experts. What is stated is or is under way several significant projects, including the acceptance of the concept of standards, quality as criteria, funding of programmes and projects implemented by various associations, the implementation of specific educations and trainings in line with the needs detected on the ground. We for research and strengthening communication and cooperation with the county enforcers of drug prevention policies, as well as encouraging and cooperation between the criminal repressive system and the treatment system. We see that there is continued work to strengthen the national drug information system, and a number of education and activities have been carried out aimed at further developing standardised ways of collecting and analysing relevant data. What is estimated to be 25000 registered addicts in Croatia at the moment, but knowing that several unregistered persons go along with each registered one, that figure is likely to reach 80,000 addicts. The data listed in the report, and so far no one has pointed out them, I am going to point them out because of the public, which I am following, so in 2016 in the health system, which is the service for the protection of metal health, prevention, non-patient treatment of addiction and hospital, was a total of 7106 people, which I was already talking about, compared to 2015 when 7533 people were treated, a reduction of 427 people. If we look at that structure, of the total treated in 2016. 83.8% took opiates, which is 5953 people. Because of the use or dependence on other psychoactive substances, 16.2% of 1153 people were treated. 741 people were treated for cannabis addiction, which is 10.4% of the total number of patients treated. 249 people or 3.6 treated as the main dear cited stimulants and cocaine, which is a 0.4% increase compared to 2015. The number of new people in the treatment system continues to decrease which, in my opinion, should be enjoyed rather than seeing ways to increase the number from year to year. I think it's much better to have a person in the system of treatment than to be left to himself, so before it's known that somewhere the average first age of contact with the means of addiction is also falling. 2015 was 16.5 years, 2016. 16.3 years, and it takes six years before a person becomes involved in some kind of treatment system. Otherwise, one interesting thing, in Istria County last year, the youngest addict was 18 and the oldest 84. What we heard today, for example, on several occasions. Well, let me look back on that. It's about the problem of new drugs. So, the last two years in the Republic of Croatia, according to data I've seen, about 20 new drugs have been seized, although the assumption is that they're on the streets and a lot more. Unfortunately, their changes, the rate of distribution, relatively low prices, the way they supply, make it impossible to monitor both the police and the competent institutions, but which is very important for parents whose children consume such funds. Otherwise, the addict scene has changed significantly, not only in Croatia in the last 10 years, so many people drink as heroin records a constant decline, and the popularity of some new drugs that are sold in tobacco smart shops, and most often they are synthetic drugs mixed with cannabinoids. As it was said right before me, a special problem is this Internet system, especially so-called the so-called Internet system. A dark Internet that is very difficult to get under control and thus reduce the availability of these new drugs that can really be fatal after the first consumption. What needs to be said today and commended by the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, which managed to fight to have a generic list of such funds, which then significantly facilitates the fight with them. When we talk about the overall situation in the Republic of Croatia, in 7 counties, the number of addicts per 100,000 inhabitants is higher than the average of Croatia. These are Istria County – 512, Zadar – 478, Sibenik-Kninska – 439, Zagreb-381, Primorje-goranska – 328, Split-Dalmatia – 282 and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska – 250. What various research shows us, we can see that, especially when it comes to Europe and the world, students are becoming less and less drunk and smoke. Unfortunately not in the Republic of Croatia. According to this latest survey data available to us in the Republic of Croatia, 38% of students have never smoked cigarettes, while 62% of them have had that experience and this is more compared to students from other countries involved in these European surveys. What's very important, and it's been said today about alcohol ads, so cigarettes don't have ads, but we know there's a legal ban on selling cigarettes to minors, but in all these studies 72% of students say they can buy cigarettes without a problem. As for alcohol, according to the ESPAD survey in the Republic of Croatia, 92% of students drink alcohol, and 55% of them also drank alcohol in the last 30 days, with an acute drinking experience of 16% of students in the last 30 days. Otherwise, according to this survey, Croatia is 5th in the prevalence of drinking 5 and more drinks in one occasion in the last 30 days, with young people doing this more often than girls, 51% of young people, 42% of girls. Also, equally devastating as it is, I repeat 72% of students easily obtain cigarettes, so even 87% of students say that alcohol can be easily obtained. As for the other means of addiction that young people meet in the Republic of Croatia today, we have information that 22% of students have suggested that at least once in their lives they have tried some drugs. In the Republic of Croatia, 21% of students took cannabis at least once in their lives, while 8% took cannabis in the last 30 days. In the Republic of Croatia, students say it is very easy to get cannabis, ectasy, and it is also not a problem to get cocaine, amphetamines, meth and crack. We have seen this latest data that in Zagreb the increase in cocaine compared to 5 years ago is 3 times and on a scale of 56 cities, namely by exploring waste water comes to these quantities, Zagreb is located somewhere in the middle of that scale. Therefore, for this debate on behalf of the SDP Club, supporting the report, we also join concerns about the emergence of new trends in addiction, the consumption of new psychoactive substances, as well as the increasingly dangerous growing dependence on the carriage, about the Internet, which can also significantly reduce the quality of life of young people, and therefore we support the announcement of these different ways of preparing a strategy to combat dependence 2018-2023, which will include gambling and alcohol, betting, as well as some other forms of addiction. The SDP club supports this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75417	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for this debate. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Celic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75418	Comrade Jovanovic, you have rightly underlined the importance of education and educational programs, preventive programs, and you have also made it very clear that it is better to have an addict in the treatment system. So today we have two paradigms in the treatment system. This is a reduction in the damage and, on the other hand, a complete recovery. In order to reduce the damage, therefore, it is extremely important that the Republic of Croatia has everything, I dare say, above the standards relating to the issue of methadone and... , but there needs a certain information system that is missing at this time in the Republic of Croatia and these are actually the results of the evaluation of the Dutch Institute for Mental Health and Dependence of the Trimbos Institute, which has just stressed that the Republic of Croatia needs to make the information system, thus the system of traceability is as good and as quality as possible, thus reducing the dispersion, i.e. potential abuse and substitution therapy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What has been said in recent years, a wave that moves from the UK, as a liberal country, about the paradigm of full recovery, so that yet a certain number of addicts who have mental capacity for this, allow a single therapeutic goal that will not necessarily carry substitution therapy, and that is again one of the challenges for the Croatian overall system, not only for the health system but generally for the multidisciplinary approach of the system of treatment of addicts.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75419	Thank you, colleague Cellic. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75420	Yes, I agree with you co-worker Celic, if someone has real and knowledge and competence to talk about this topic, it is you and it is very important that this multidisciplinary approach through prevention, education, you also mentioned the programme of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, which has long implemented the trend of life skills and, of course, therapy. What you should always say is that addicts are sick. So a lot of people are looking at them with... But addicts are patients and today modern brain tests people consume addictions clearly show changes in the brain so that they should be treated as well as all other people who are sick and looking for ways to help them as best as possible and of course what is said several times today to be resocialized. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without resociation, the therapy they are subjected to is in vain.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75421	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jovanovic, this aspect you mentioned educationally is of great importance. There are many of them so-called. Press factors that are of a social nature especially in these younger populations, this aspect of joint consumption, the ritual consumption of various drugs, but that may be even more true for these addictions, for example, about betting, etc., so these push factors are very important and I think that you, well detect them, that they can best be worked through education. On the other hand, I think it's quite good to insist on this second thing you said, so it's much better to have drug addicts than not in this case Portugal, which is mentioned several times today, actually as positive statistics, it's that the number of people who have decided to treat has increased. So my question to you would be if you knew of any examples so that we could increase the number of people who opted for treatment, especially in these younger populations?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75423	I thank my colleague Glavasevic. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75424	Thank you. A colleague Glavasevic, therefore, is mentioned several times today by clubs treated with alcoholics as a good example of helping people with alcohol problems. Also, a very good project which also started from Zagreb was the Zagreb School of Non-Smoking, therefore, these are all good examples of how we could find some new ways to attract all those who went on the road to get on the road and certainly the key programs are played by associations dealing with the reduction of damage, the hard reduction program, again in Rijeka we have a whole series of such associations, Terra, the Association for... psychotherapy, which is precisely how young people try to pull off the street and engage in different treatment programs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I particularly want to point out is that I did not say in the debate, and we talked about it on the Health Committee, which is the problem of a family where their children are addicted. So it would be especially good to include such families in some programs to prevent children from getting habits, bad habits that their parents have, I think it's one of the priorities in the next strategic documents that will be brought to the question of suppressed abuse of addiction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75425	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Glasovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75426	Dear colleagues, I listened to this debate this morning but I listened superficially, but I mean generally, I'm not telling you Mr. Jovanovic here, in general. This gentleman, I didn't hear much this morning, from the MUP because I didn't hear what he was saying, he was very quiet. Mr. Cellic I listened to, and we're talking to ourselves here, we're talking about prevention, it's good to talk about these statistics, we have statistics that 65,000 people died in North America about heroin, 8,000 in Europe, come new drugs from crack to this zombie drug, we know that. But how do you get close to those young people? We take them from a strategic level. What about tactical level? I've worked in federal prisons outside, I know what drugs are, you should send them to those school classes, former heroin addicts and other things, I'm people with one nostril, to see what it looks like, where someone no longer has a vein to spray but syringes under their knees, under their tongues. Show them young people who were sniffing, say... Adhesion that has brain swings and tell them what hepatitis, HIV and cirrhosis are, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then there might be some effect. Secondly, I don't even know in history if there are so many people driving drunk here, killing someone and driving seven times, it's unimaginable in Texas. It's also called in Canada, the Vehicle Homocide. The vehicle is a means of murder. And when someone sits down with a drunk fool in the car and kills someone, the one who drives is guilty of everything. And he's maybe up to 20 years in prison in the rule of law that has a regulated legal system, second for drug dealers, there's been drug dealers taking him to the Korčula police and he slipped them up there and he's still terrorized people, it's unimaginable. There are some new things that need to be introduced into the Penal Code to prevent these criminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75427	I thank my colleague Glasnović. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75428	Thank you very much. Well, you yourself have admitted that you have been following up on the debate, a colleague of the State Secretary is not from the Ministry of Health, he is from the Ministry of Health, but I only reported on the replica because of one thing you said. You were talking about the prison system. Our next topic today is the prison system where I believe we will also talk about the inadequate care of prison addicts and the need to improve health care and health care of drug addicts and, unfortunately, who, at this point, do not have adequate care to enable them to resocialise upon their return from prison.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75429	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Predrag Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Kola Jovanovic, the defence population is a large population in the Republic of Croatia, so over 500 thousand people and we certainly have major problems with those who do not work, which we have not activated through different programmes. However, they are very exposed to drugs and alcohol and betting, and as far as I know, I am a little ashamed, but the ministry has never worked, the Ministry of Defence, research around that population, because it would be recognized by the defender as a sin against them, humiliation, Stigmatisation, and I am interested in whether the state recognises that group in particular and whether it has done any programs through the strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75431	I thank my colleague Matic. Answer, colleague Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75432	Thank you, fellow Matic. You've really opened up an extremely important issue in the defense population where we know that some of them have addiction issues, alcohol issues, that they're addicted to gambling, which then destroys their lives and the lives of their families. I think it is a key message for the Secretary of State to be one of the additional priorities that will be taken into account more than ever before in the preparation of the national strategy 2018-2023.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75433	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. Next replica, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75434	Thank you, Vice President. You have rightly pointed out the importance of education. But I'm afraid that we as a society, as a community, are not paying enough attention to education when it comes to fighting addiction. No prohibitions can be as effective as education. We would have to introduce in the new curricula a mandatory subject of health care or an object that would talk exclusively about addictions because it's not just drugs, it's not just alcohol, it's not just nicotine, betting. We have a whole new phenomenon of addiction. Internet addiction, cell phone addiction, social media presence. It's worrying that we have an increase in nicotine consumption, so smokers at an adolescent age. It's a worrying piece of information. And if we were to introduce one of these classes from primary school to the end of high school education, I think we'd have a much better score as a society than we do now. But it's a matter of government, it's a matter of those who do curricula to recognize the importance of education and to simply introduce it into society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75435	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Answer, colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75436	Thank you, fellow Stazic. So you know that in the term of our government, we have managed at least as an intrinsic teaching to introduce education from education and education for health where one whole part was a curricula dedicated to just preventing addiction. But of course that's not enough. I hope that in this new cycle, there will finally be a curricula reform in which not only through the subjects of health education, but also through the subject of civic education, young people will be created who will adopt both knowledge and skills and attitudes and competences to ensure that they live better, longer and better, and that the repression itself does not produce results, I agree. That's why it needs to be combined, prevention and repression. But of course, society also needs to show one indignity to e.g. people who become TV stars, and it is known that they paid prostitutes with cocaine, therefore, such people cannot be invited to the president's celebrations, to any receptions where they are given attention, however, should be ignored.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75437	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his response. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75438	Thank you very much. Here, my debate alone will be brief because here and through the replicas I said a few things I wanted in an individual debate. As far as this addiction problem is concerned, I always tell students and school classes that addiction is like one time without coming back. At first, a man takes drugs, then the drugs look for drugs, and eventually the drugs take the man. And in that particular sentence, we can see exactly how to fight drugs. So make sure a man never takes drugs at all. So it's primary prevention, education. Then, try that if he's already taken drugs, get him off the street as soon as possible and stop taking drugs. If we haven't even been able to do that, then we can stop hepatitis, AIDS and, of course, the fatal outcome from developing through the damage reduction program. That is exactly what we see in our national strategy, the action plan, where through these 3 segments we try to reduce this problem. And what I have reported for this individual debate concerns one question asked today by my colleague, Sagar. So, with these new addictions that occur in young people, addictions, for example, about the Internet, today we have information that not only in the Republic of Croatia, but in the whole world young people may not be in Croatia, but in the world they smoke less, they drink less thanks to some policies when it comes to Europe, the EU that opposes alcohol and nicotine consumption, but in general in the world of young people today, less consume the means of addiction, but at the same time less come out of the house, less social, they are harder to establish knowledge in the real world, and they are easier to establish in the virtual world. So, this is one huge problem that will escalate with us in the years ahead and that is why it is also needed in this strategy 2018/2023. really pay extra attention to the quality of life of young people who are increasingly living in a virtual world. And in this virtual world, they're far from real problems, they create an imaginary picture of themselves and the sure future and the quality of their lives won't be like that. And, of course, the dependence on energy drinks comes along. We have heard a few discussions here today on the subject, but what is crucial, the European Commission, the EU, is based on its numerous research, as well as the ESPAD survey showed that in Croatia, 88.6% of 16-year-olds regularly consume energy drinks, which are undoubtedly harmful. We also referred to the 2 Laws of Parliament, which we wanted to regulate and prevent under 18 years of age from obtaining such energy drinks, in a similar way that neither alcohol nor cigarettes can be bought. However, we are completely ignored by the government of the Republic of Croatia, and the peak came yesterday, when I received a reply from Minister Kujundzic, who is simply scandalous, because he writes among other things, why would this be regulated when laws are not respected in Croatia anyway. So if it's from Kujundzic, it's too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75439	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for this debate, replicated counterpart Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75440	Thank you, well-respected representative Jovanovic. Here, we hear these days and over the past years that they've been carrying out rigorous drug and alcohol controls in certain companies, for example. INA, Geotechnics, aviation, Croatian railways, taxi services and workers there, if they only find that they have violated the minimum, therefore, some kind of border, they are immediately fired. I want to know why these same checks are not carried out in management of administrations which, therefore, share these cancellations, why no director or member of the administration has ever been tested as well. And I am particularly interested, if tests are already being carried out in the public services, let's say why not run the same tests in the ministries, in the Government and in the Croatian Parliament, for example. Here, I've never heard of any such question being asked here, let alone someone being tested. But, for example, It's very interesting, you know, according to official expert analysis, the most cocaine is found on 500 kn bills. So it's the banknote that has the most cocaine on it, which means it's the ones that are the richest who consume those drugs the most. And I would also like to ask, what comments do you make about your former member's book, the party, Mrs. Mirela Holly's "The Devil" is called a book, which commented that there are therefore members of the government, who also consume drugs. She wrote it in public, so since you SDP never referred to it, here I would like you to say something about it, and to answer my previous question, it means whether you support control of drugs both alcohol and the highest authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75441	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. The answer of my colleague Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75442	So my old pharmacology professor, when he taught us about alcohol problems said and among other things that alcohol increases power, increases desire, and actually reduces power. So that everyone who tries to make some key decisions under alcohol, surely those decisions are not good at all. As far as I'm concerned, wherever there's an alcohol abuse to be done, if there's any doubt that it's an alcoholic, why not? In particular, at the Ministry where I was, it was done, and such a person refused the sanctions, all who went according to the rule about it. As far as my colleague Holly's book is concerned, there's a lot of fiction in it, so I'm missing out on every reader, that I'm assessing how real and real these stories are.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75443	I thank my colleague Jovanovic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75444	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Jovanovic, that technology changes society, in a way that is sometimes difficult to predict. Implications, the development of the Internet, some of them we mentioned today, from getting people drugs, to thinking, I'd say it's something that's easy for us to counter, but there are changes, which are very difficult for us to counter. These are those changes, which relate to patterns of behavior, to social taxes. So, from this perspective, it's hard for us to conclude on something new that's about to happen, we can only conclude on the basis of something we've already experienced. And it's particularly problematic, right in young people, because we have a duty to protect them from potentially harmful consequences, even in this aspect, and it's very difficult for us sometimes to understand their patterns of behavior, their ritualistic and their kind of values. However, as you said, successful countries are actively considering the future. And what, I think, is why it is very important that we talk about these things here and in this way, because Croatia, unfortunately, is still struggling to understand its own past. Somehow we haven't had, we can't get that chance, to start thinking actively about the future in that sense, here, I agree with you in this part where you look back at the role of new technologies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75445	I thank my colleagues Glavasev, the answer, my colleague Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75446	Well, yes, colleague Glavasevic, we, I believe, agreed here, when we had discussions on the strategy of science and technology education and other documents concerning education, that school is, of course, a place in the final school, the colleges are where we get good cooks, doctors, engineers, actors, but that the task of school and college is to become first of all good people. And then as good people, we will have a good society and Croatia will be a country where people will live happier and better quality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75447	I thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75448	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. So here is the end of this debate on this report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse for 2016, so I would also like to emphasise that the report is indeed detailed and included all relevant programmes, projects, actions and steps drawn up by the strategy itself and the action plan itself. Yes, and you can see, indeed, all that time, so this strategy, which actually refers to the period from 2012 to 2017. But I really want to point out that here we are now, really, in 2018 and in some ways I expect, and maybe this should have already been done in the previous year. They've probably taken steps, but let's not let it take us a long time to talk, discuss now, make a strategy for the next eight-year period. What also seems important to me to point out is that, therefore, it is true, therefore, that the state has determined both quality and determined to oppose and fight and take all those steps, so to solve this huge problem that plagues man above all else. He tortures family first and foremost. That is why I say we must also take into account in the next strategy, and this has been highlighted today when we talk about drugs and all sorts of addictions. Indeed, all sorts of addictions and those not mentioned in the previous strategy. Because the market, so we may be a bit of a stunt, but the drug market, the drug market, the addiction market, the development of addiction is far, far ahead of us. They're far more innovative, and we actually have to constantly answer to all these challenges as a responsible state. Drug abuse as well as any addiction is not just an individual's problem, so we know that's a problem above all, a huge problem, and it affects the whole family, all family members. It disrupts family relations, and such relationships are really spilling away. They're also at school, at work, in other relationships. So by bringing in every strategy and action plan and carrying out all the activities, we need to ask ourselves whether we are really going to achieve the goal that we have set for ourselves, and the imagined goal above all is actually let's say somehow the absence of drug abuse, although we already know that it is very, very difficult, or impossible to expect. So we take all these measures that we, as a responsible state, have to implement, because we actually care about people's health, about healthy people. Likewise, and this report is quite detailed and described, I would like to say that this is not just a question of how much money, how much funding is in, but in what way is this money allocated and in which direction is this money going. In my opinion, we have mentioned this several times in today's debate, in fact, it is a prevention in which, in this direction, most of the resources should really go means both financial and human in prevention. We know that research has shown, and certainly, that the far greater impact of the one that can be achieved in the process of education is, rather, the one that can be achieved later in the sanctioning process, i.e. the retraining process, resocialisation. We do not want to reduce the value or importance of each of these processes, but in this debate, I would like to stress precisely on the prevention and prevention that is carried out in the regular system, regular schools. You said it yourself or we've heard here how much that drug experimenting limit actually decreases, how much lower that age is. And that's actually the reason or that's actually why I'm saying that school prevention is important. But not only with the programs, I want to stress here the prevention that will be carried out in that basic system by all teachers, so regular teachers, classrooms. So it has to be blended in, and I'm certainly stressing once again that it's important, it's important to carry out a really complete curricula reform in schools to really get this quality preventive system. Why? We're not going to, so it's already visible through these programs that are being successfully implemented in some counties, but we really need to replicate it all on all counties. Because investing in one child is, in fact, as much as it seems to us, as much money as it asks for, it will certainly be less than if we have to invest later on in a system of treatment or resociation. The prevention in schools is actually the one that comes from the inside, not from the outside. Thus, occasional programs will not be as effective as one systematic work, the daily work of the teacher himself, of the classmate himself. Because why? Working on life’s skills, working to build self - respect, building a positive image of ourselves, so a good self - perception, therefore only in this way encouraging development itself will we have a happy child. A happy child is actually a child and a healthy child is a resilient child, a child who will easily resist all the challenges and those we are talking about today. So it will certainly be exposed because as much as we do, I don't want to be pessimistic, but such a situation will still be the way in which those who want to, who want to make money on our children, will certainly find a way for us to get to the child. But in that case, if we have a man, this young man, that child who takes care of himself, who is loved, who has developed self-respect and defence mechanisms, it will be easier to resist all these challenges and negative challenges and all that is put before him. I want to stress one more situation, one thing I want to say, so investment is both financial and human. We have one occupation that I belong to professions professionals are social pedagogues perhaps for schools and the most called ones who should speak or be represented. Unfortunately, or we have in Zagreb almost all schools are represented with social pedagogues, but if we move out of Zagreb we are already facing a completely different situation. And as far as we're concerned, and I'm long gone from college, no matter how long we said they'd be represented in all schools, that's not the case today. And we shouldn't just look at numbers, but where we have a smaller phenomenon we have to work on prevention to avoid increasing these ugly numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75449	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. We have replicas, dear colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75450	Dear colleague Alfirev. You have argued that the drug market is innovative which I confirm because it also confirms this latest raid at the Rijeka port and how much the scope of European and world services is to contain one such chain of drug trafficking. I just want to stress here that given this innovation of the market that it is necessary to ensure that the knowledge of those drug inspectors is inescapable in fighting and suppressing drug trafficking. Unfortunately, we're sending them out too soon to retire, but if they did make that professional pension, then we could use their skills and skills afterwards. The implementation strategy or action plan must have an annual valorisation if it is going to be a real strategy, without it we cannot have maneuver space so that we can adapt to emerging situations. I think you're absolutely right that all schools should have a psychologist and a social educator in terms of because in this field there is not enough self-educated, here you need both education and an analysis of the whole social situation and the action and perhaps working with the family. It's not simple stuff. We have one thing that intrigues me very much, how are we going to fight drug abuse with such a large number of unemployed young people? We have a terrible amount of time and I think hiring young people is also one measure that wouldn't contain it, but it would reduce drug abuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75451	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Answer, colleague Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75452	Thank you, dear colleague Hrelja. So that's where you've emphasized a lot, a lot of these topics, and each of them really requires another broad and extra elaborate. I agree with you, so you mentioned one problem, and that's the inspectors we're sending early to retirement, and that's where I absolutely agree. I hope that soon because it was the topic, it was supposed to come to order, I think it was last Thursday that it was supposed to be so we had to change because of certain things and we still haven't come to that topic, and it's actually very important because we have quality people in which we invested a lot and who young people had to retire, and we don't have such a system and that we can continue to work in that part that doesn't necessarily do what they did until then, but just to be useful, let's say as inspectors on the one hand. So I hope that'll back us up when we have a professional retirement debate. Yes, exactly the strategy and every action plan should be regularly valorised, evaluated for precisely these reasons to see which direction this is going and what should be complemented and what else should be corrected. And I'm saying what I said, so the strategy, so very, very on time, is to bring precisely because of these growing forms of addiction. The unemployed in any case, therefore, will certainly, therefore, all the measures we invest in the employment and employment of young people, they will contribute to making addiction less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75453	I thank my colleague Alfirev for his reply. Please keep an eye out for the next time. We have the final word, dear colleague, Secretary of State Tomislav Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75454	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. I thank you all for the debate, and I would also like to thank you for your support from the clubs for this report. In the final word, I will try to sum up the answers to some questions so that it does not stay in the air that something is not answered. Our system in relation to European systems is highly quality, professional, and we are the leader in the region by system organisation. As far as the system is concerned in Portugal, they have a specific system, they have high heroin addiction and they have a practice that is more appropriate to their needs and our system is satisfying itself that the possession of drugs for personal use is not a crime but a violation. As for the treatment of opiate addictions, the opiate addiction declines everywhere in Europe, and we are not isolated in this case and therefore the number of drug addicts treated, since cannabis and stimulants are not covered by classic medical treatment. As for the issue of overdose and alcohol, 35 people died last year, and how many people die as a result of alcoholism, unfortunately we don't have it now. Since the use of alcohol and tobacco and gambling towards minors is growing, there is a new national strategy, meaning strategy 18 25 on the action in the area of addiction that will cover all policies according to addiction and the strategy provides for a special programme for women addicts and will also be covered by Croatian defenders. I would also like to highlight the record number seized in 2016 and I would like to especially thank and highlight the very quality and professional work of experts in the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75455	I thank my esteemed colleague, Dulibic. We have a few replicas of a respected colleague of the Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75456	Thank you very much, dear Secretary of State. So I'm curious how you comment on the fact that all these new drugs that come to Croatia bear an English name. How come none of these new drugs, say, don't have a Chinese name or an Indian name, but they're all called English, so we don't know that ice, crack, speed, cloud, ninjas, galaxies, so they just all come from the U.S. area? How do you comment on the fact that since the NATO military, or the US military in Afghanistan, opium production has grown to record levels and heroin production has increased 40 times? How do you comment on the fact that those countries in Europe that are directly protected by the United States, such as Kosovo, are known as countries that serve as the main drug transport in Europe? Do you think that Croatia can really protect itself from drugs until it has critically accepted the culture and policy of the United States which imposes on us on an ever greater extent than we can track in recent years since the bureaucrats of NATO and the European Union have become the real rulers of Croatia. So much for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75457	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75458	Dear Secretary of State, I received one piece of information, although it is unverified that approximately 100kg of top cocaine is the daily need of Belgrade and we know that cocaine is a drug for the rich, do we have that information about the daily need of Zagreb in this context? I think that would be interesting to know that you can see the scope of the use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75459	I thank my esteemed colleague Hrelja. Answer, Secretary of State Dulibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75460	We don't have the exact data for Belgrade, we have data from wastewaters that the daily need in the city of Zagreb is 216 milligrams per 1,000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75461	I thank Secretary of State Dulibic for this answer. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. I thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Tomislav Dulibic, and Deputy Director of the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, Mrs. Sanja Mikulic, for the reasons of the proposal. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. I now set a break until 12.45 p.m. when we resume our plenary session. MEETING IN 12.35 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75462	Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2016. The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 89 votes, and 1 vote against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75463	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our plenary session. - Report on the implementation of mine action activities and spent financial resources in 2015 and 2016. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.45 HOURS]] The report shall be submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 33. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in conjunction with Article 7. The Mine Action Act. The debate was conducted by the responsible Defence Committee and the responsible Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. I call on the motionary, State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Zarko Katic, to give us an additional explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75464	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs and gentlemen, here is a debate on a very difficult topic such as drugs now followed by a debate on the Report on Mine Action in the Republic of Croatia. Our country was polluted by countless mine-explosive assets during the Homeland War and according to some UNHCR estimates about 13000 km2 which a quarter of Croatia's state space was thought to have been polluted was in mine suspected space. The audit made by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence and especially when the Croatian Mine Action Centre was established was 1174... It's a square meter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And from that number, we started from that surface to get to 406 square miles today. So that's about a third of mine suspected space left. I would give a few more data to see the overall problem of the capacity situation in demining operations as well as the completion of this job. The activities of mine action have been established by the Law on Mine Action of 2015 and are carried out by means of public procurement procedures carried out by the Croatian Mine Action Centre on behalf of the Republic of Croatia as a therefore contracting officer. The activities of demining shall be carried out by 40 authorised legal entities. Of these 40 all have the approval to carry out demining operations by hand mine detection, 22 legal persons have the authorisation to carry out machine surface preparation operations with a total of 44 certified surface preparation machines, and 12 legal persons have the approval to perform surface examinations and mine detection dogs with a total of about 50 mine detection dogs. The average work of mine action is carried out by 5 hundred pyrotechnicians, 120 workers, 80 assistant workers, 33 pyrotechnicists of CROMAC for quality control and 12 monitors of the Croatian Mine Action Centre for quality control. Currently, nine counties have been polluted in our country by mine-explosive means. It is Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik-Kninska, Zadarska, Ličko-Senjska which is also the most polluted, Karlovska, Sisak-Moslavina, Požeko-Slavonska, Osijek-Baranja and Brod-Posaviska. The ship-posaviska is practically before demining itself and we believe that this year it will be removed from this list, and until now Virovitičko-podravska, Dubrovačko-neretvanska, Vukovar-Srijemska, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska and Zagrebačka County have been demined. The most painful and severe consequences of mine pollution are mine victims. With joy, I can say that in 2017, for which we will present the report very soon, this week is on the working bodies and at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so that last year was the first year without mine victims. Otherwise, the total number of mine victims is 597, of which 203 people died. Of that number, 130 pyrotechnics were injured, and 38 unfortunately were killed. Here's the short data for 2015 and 2016 for which we submit the report. On 1 January 2015, the total size of mine suspected areas was 530 km square and covered 79 cities and municipalities in 10 counties, which was marked with 12 thousand markings that pointed to mine danger and possible mine-explosive assets and unexploded killings. In 2015, by carrying out all demining and general reconnaissance operations, a reduction in mine suspected area was planned by at least 104.5 km square and a reduction of 67.8 km square, i.e. 65% of the defined size plan was realised. Mine-mining and search operations removed mine danger from the area of 40.6 kilometers, which is the largest annual realisation of demining operations since the establishment of mine action, i.e. the establishment of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. General and technical reconnaissances conducted by the Croatian Mine Action Centre resulted in a reduction in mine suspected area by 27.2km square. A significant emphasis in recent years has been placed on the education of the population from mine dangers and 69 educations in 11 counties were held in 2015, covering about 8.5 thousand persons, respectively. However, unfortunately, two mine incidents occurred in which 3 people were killed, one fatal, and two with severe bodily injuries, all three persons were pyrotechnics and these incidents/accidents occurred on demining operations. In 2015, a mine suspected area in Vukovar-Srijem County was completely removed, and this county was one of the most polluted, while the year before, in 2014, it was also done in the area of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Virovitica-Podravska. In the part of the plan relating to the financial achievement, it particularly highlights the insurance of 465 million, 505,000 kuna, of which 405 million kuna were agreed, and realised by jobs, so 328 million, 820 million, 516 kuna, which is an increase in the realised financial assets of 17% compared to 2014. For the first time, funding has been provided beyond the planned and national mine action programme and the annual humanitarian demining plan. The share of demining funds is secured from EU funds, at the time of the EU pre-accession funds. In 2015, it was 56% of the total financial resources in the year. Here, I'd like to brief on the demining business in 2016. So at the beginning of that year, the total size of mine suspected space was 467.4 km square and spread within 69 cities and municipalities in 9 counties, and was marked by a total of 13 thousand 274 labels that pointed to the danger or possible discovery of unexploded killings. In 2016 all demining and general reconnaissance operations planned to reduce mine suspected areas by at least 86.4 km square and 19% respectively, with a reduction of 41.5 km square and 48% of the defined size plan, respectively. We believe that one of the reasons why more demining was not done that year consists of the fact that the capacities of the Croatian Mine Action Centre were not sufficient, and these capacities were increased by last year's decision of the Government of December 2017 where 28 employees of the company Mungos demining d.o.o. switch to the Croatian Mine Action Centre, which will increase the number of pyrotechnics and pyrotechnic supervisors. And in 2016, unfortunately, there have been five mine incidents involving 7 people, of which 3 fatal and 4 minor physical injuries. 6 victims are pyrotechnicians, and one person is an auxiliary agent in demining and these incidents occurred during demining operations. Of the insurance funds in the adoption of the plan, as well as the additional amount secured in 2016, of the total amount of 523 million 198 thousand 892 kuna, 404 million and 74 000 866 kuna were agreed and 295 million 560 thousand 663 kuna realised. This year, the 2015 trend continued with the growth of demining funds secured from euro funds, hence pre-accession funds and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development so that these funds from the European Funds amounted to 65% of the total financial resources and resources provided in 2016. Here is so much about the work of demining in 2015 and 2016, you will probably be interested in respected MPs and MPs, and when the Republic of Croatia plans to complete this difficult and responsible job and what kind of exit strategy it is. Namely, the National Mine Action Programme, which was adopted for the period 2009 to 2019, was planned as the year with which the mine threat to the territory of the Republic of Croatia would be completely removed. Taking into account the fact that there are some over 400km of square mine suspected space left, an extension procedure has been initiated under the Ottawa Convention and the National Programme. By the end of this month, the Republic of Croatia will submit a request for an extension of the demining period. In early June of this year, it was planned that the Republic of Croatia should present its request to the competent authority of the unit in support of the implementation of the Ottava Convention, and a decision on the request of the Republic of Croatia would be made in August. The decision will be presented in November this year to the other signatories of the Otva Convention. The deadline until which the Republic of Croatia is due to complete demining operations can be determined by the basis of the size of mine suspected space, conditions on the ground, existing capacities, so the number of companies I initially presented to you, number of pyrotechnicians, machines, dogs and other equipment used in demining as well as of course the financial resources that can be provided in the state budget or from European funds. This year is the last year when more pre-accession funds are used, as I said earlier, funds from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development will be used. It would be a great pleasure if we could present progress over the next few years, especially the lack of mine victims. This year, it plans to demining all agricultural areas, previously demining gardens, infrastructure facilities, all those vital facilities for the lives and work of people and living in the population, and we have left forest areas and more accessible terrains. I thank you for your patience and if questions, me and Mr. Modrušan, director of the Croatian Mine Action Centre, are ready to provide further explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75465	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Zark Katić, for this explanation of the 2015 and 2015 reports. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? There's no one here. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75466	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected secretary of state and director of the Mine Action Centre. As we heard from the opening presentation, the demining situation in Croatia is not good. According to the State Secretary, the deadline until which Croatia must be demined has been extended again, it is not the first time, it is the second time. The first deadline was until 2009, the second deadline was until 2019 and now the deadline was extended again without the Secretary of State telling us at least indicatively when the job could finally be done. The fact itself points to the conclusion that these reports should not be accepted by the Assembly, and I will try to explain why. I would like to point out that parliamentary representatives, especially members of the Committee on Internal Affairs and National Security, have been written several times by supervisors to control the quality of demining itself, including Mr Ivan Ljukacevic, who stated that there is a whole series of untruths in these reports. Among other things, he stated that certain areas were declared demining and were not subject to final quality control, nor was a certificate issued, which means that they were de facto not demining. It states that in 2015 there were 22 such projects in the report and in 2016 there were as many as 49 of them. Moreover, he argues that the deminings were declared even those areas where a repeat demining was ordered as well as areas where demining was still ongoing. He also stated that according to the new Mine Action Act, 8 regulations should be adopted, that only 2 were adopted with delay and 6 were not even presented yet. Of course, should we even doubt that, shortly after these applications, Mr. Ivan Ljukačević and his wife had a new systematization, the workplace was abolished. This is therefore the only answer that the relevant ones have taken after it has been found that they have not done their job well. Also, what is not good in this report and what I would like to point out is that there are 14 demining areas of the so-called the demining, explosive devices have been found, which means that this job has been done sloppyly and badly and on the other hand I would like to ask the secretary of state why no names of companies have been published, which have therefore declared one area demining and that was not essentially it. I would also like to point out that the big problem in this demining business is so-called. outsourcing or assigning jobs to private companies. As long as these jobs were carried out by pyrotechnicians who were employees of the MUP, demining was relatively fast and high-quality, however, now it is no longer the case because companies primarily think about how to make profits. Employees are in an increasingly difficult position in the sense that they only get honest salaries when they work, but as soon as they don't work, as soon as there are no jobs either because of weather opportunities or lack of orders, they are placed on a minimumer and even now there is an idea that the employment of pyrotechnicians would be declared seasonal business, which means that they would literally be on the market if there were no jobs. Assigning jobs to private companies, some of which have indeed committed crime, means starting with setting prices. I remind you that the DORH conducts several investigations against this monopolization, i.e. the cartel is also the fact that many of these companies remained liable to pay employees and some owners of pyrotechnic companies already have a 4th company in a row, which means that he, for example, worked by model, opened the company, did the job, remained in debt to the workers. Then after that, the second company, then the third company, and then the fourth company, and that's what our system allows. Now these companies, private companies, have discovered a new source of earnings and this source of earnings is EU funds offering money for the reuse of demining land. So here we hear that money is given to turn the mined land into agricultural land, etc., but the problem is that these money is taken, the country is demining, and then it is not agricultural land, but it continues to grow livestock and it is completely unused, so using these EU funds could lead to serious problems so as not to say that there may be a return of funds. The new business model, better put out the withdrawal money that private companies have, is that those instead of cleaning minefields clean dubious fields. And it cleans them up in a way that they don't even go out in the field, but they write projects, so for a suspicious area, they basically get jobs from the office and then no wonder that in more than 50% of these surveyed fields no bullet was found, let alone an explosive device. It's definitely too much and in that sense something should be done to normalize such a situation. The bigger the problem is that Croatia has over a thousand areas where there are absolutely certain mines, meaning where mines of explosive devices are recorded, but I repeat, instead of clearing these areas, the suspected areas that are randomly determined are cleared. And then we have one paradox, I dare say irony when the secretary of state says that the number of victims is shrinking, so of course it's shrinking because it's just that someone wants to get hurt they can't get killed because there's therefore a clean field where there's no mines or explosive devices. It is obvious, therefore, that these private companies want to earn extra profits in such a way that they do things that are unnecessary, i.e. that the demining of Croatia takes as long as possible. By now, they have spent more than 5 billion kuna in demining, and they intend to make the same amount of income, according to all professional analyses. And that specifically means that this demining should actually be extended by 10 to 20 years, 10 to 20 years which is very bad. It is very bad, among other things, that it pleases one interested group again. On the other hand, the Croatian state cannot put into its full position whether it is an economy, whether it is tourism or a demographic reconstruction. All the countries in the world that have had the problem of demining have solved this problem much faster than Croatia. Here's an example of Mozambique. In Mozambique, civil war lasted 26 years, much longer than in Croatia, the war ended in 1992, about the same place in Croatia. Last year, Mozambique declared it to be a completely demining country. So one African country that does not have European funds available, which does not have all these mechanisms that Croatia has managed to mine its country. And you know how much? With 220 million dollars. So about a billion and a half kuna, they demined the whole country. We don't have enough here as we can see for 22 years, we don't need 5 billion, we're planning to double the whole deal, and somebody should finally make order in this sector. I would also like to point out that, except that Mr. Lukacevic therefore de facto got fired after he had warned of the lack of quality that some other controllers who have an actual intention to control demining had come into a subordinate position and today control was conducted exclusively by those controllers who are directly connected to companies, which means that companies have a huge influence on supervision and they are actually controlling themselves. That's definitely not good and that's all the data that Mr. Director... They come from the very ranks of people who deal with demining. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's not an arbitrary point, that's all the data from the profession, and I think you should pay attention to that too, but the entire Croatian public. There is also a warning that there is a huge increase in the number of dogs seeking pyrotechnics and that dogs have been shown not to actually be able to, therefore, precisely determine whether they are in a mine area or not, or are not completely reliable. These fast-hit companies, and we see that their numbers are increasing among other things, are those companies that have the highest profit. So let's say the company that uses dogs and not people has 10 or 20 times the profit of those companies where demining is done by people. Therefore, the Living Wall will not support these two reports because we find it embarrassing that by today, Croatia does not have a date to which it should be demined, and among other things we believe that certain stakeholders are pulling money out of the budget, from European funds to meet their needs, rather than the needs of the Croatian state, and we believe that there must be more order. When these concrete moves are made then we will also support these and the following and similar reports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75467	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for this debate. We're moving on to replicas. Dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75468	Dear Representative Bunjac, I will look back only on this debate. There are few people in the assembly, there are only two speakers left. Indeed, if the chairman puts the agenda in the debate they discuss and goes further, which means there is actually no problem with the Rules of Procedure and that 90% of the debate is dead anyway without debate. Here I come, I've replicated to you. No one's replicated you. There's no debate here at all. And that little debate that comes up sometimes and they want to end it. But I'd like to look back on the demining topic. I watched them use rats in some countries to detect wine. Top-notch, cheap. Rats just have the smell for those mines and then reward them with some fruit etc. And we're moving on. And we still use people to detect mines, even though people don't have the capacity to demine such large areas at that speed and efficiency for so little money. Croatia is lagging behind in technological terms, but here's what I said it's not about some high-tech technology. It's about the simplest rats, and here's what I recommend to the gentlemen who deal with demining to Google it and apply that technology because it would have long been demining if we had applied it earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75469	I thank my esteemed colleague Pernar. Hey, pal Bunjac's answer, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75470	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar. So the problem is that the state gives things that are of public importance, of general interest, so strategic matters into the hands of private people. And that shouldn't happen, because those experiences of the countries that allowed it show that services themselves are very important to collect. One small group of people earns extra profits, and workers who do these jobs at the same time come into a very difficult position, reduces their wages, reduces their labour rights, and the worst of all reduces their safety at work. It is certain that these 38 dead pyrotechnics and who knows how many more injured those numbers would have been smaller if there were the same surveillance that existed while the pyrotechnics were employees of the Ministry of the Interior. But that's the general trend of this government. We saw when there was the Law on the Communist Economy that they were transferred I don't know to public companies in the private sector, that I don't know the waste is collected by privates, that water is distributed by privates and other things. And there will be the same problems again, and I am sorry that it keeps going in this direction, so to privatise what all Croatian citizens should benefit from. I am sure that the Ministry of the Interior has maintained demining under its direct authority, that already today not only would they know the date when Croatia will be demined but probably 99% but that job would be finished. In this way with one, let's say mildly speaking to illegalities, I'm afraid, and I'm even wondering if we'll experience Croatia being demined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75471	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. The next replica of counterpart Davor Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75472	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bunjac, we all agree that we need to speed up the demining procedure, but it doesn't go without a man, without people. For this reason, we should once again commend our developed defenders who have given experience from the Homeland War for the purpose of demining Croatia. And I agree with you that it was better organised while it was within the Ministry of Interior and the Croatian Mine Action Centre. Because what happened when we put these jobs on the market didn't result in what we all want Croatia to be without mines and that we don't have human casualties. Because that profit race turned out to be bad because this is too serious and too dangerous a job to be more important a square meter demining than human life. This, through tenders, through the placing on the market of these jobs, proved that individuals had established companies overnight, that they had not paid the workers. We've also had protests recently in Mark's square that we've supported because a lot of these people who deal with demining business aren't paid for these jobs. Their labour rights are not respected. This should not have happened, and on the other hand we still have unminded Croatia and we have victims who were killed in mine fields although the area was demined, but no one gave a certificate, that this could be brought to culture, i.e. agricultural production. And I believe that many of our people who live near these agricultural areas would come to cultivate these areas and return to agricultural production, that it is a better and better quality land policy, because as long as it invests its capital in deforestation of that land and while it has its first income, it cannot be economically justified these investments. It cannot be profitable and therefore it is still part of a large part of these areas has not been decommissioned, has not been placed in the function of agricultural production. But first of all, we need to say thank you very much to the people who worked on demining and we need to protect their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75473	Thank you, dear colleague Vlaović, for your response, my colleague Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75474	Thank you very much, dear colleague Vlaović, indeed the pyrotechnics are doing superhuman work. I believe that all those who have watched it for at least 10 minutes, I don't know, when you're walking in water to your knees, that you don't know where you're standing, when you're walking through a bat that's been growing for 20 years, it's practically a jungle that you have to shut down first, to get to the ground at all, where you could possibly be a mine machine, that job really borders with horror, that it requires extremely great psychological stability and concentration, and that fear is simply, that the fear of everyday people is a thing of these people. What we see in Croatia, that pyrotechnics are extremely dissatisfied, that they have to work practically without being able to complain to anyone, we have seen since this job was given to private companies, that the surface of which a pyrotechnician must be examined daily has tripled. So tripled, so they're being driven, I don't know in some other developed countries, that a pyrotechnician looks at 200 square meters a day, and we have to look at 800 square meters. And it's just that they put unfulfilled obligations on them, and then it's no wonder that accidents happen, and it's no wonder that one part of the pyrotechnics is simply giving up on that job because it's really not possible to endure it. It is a shame for Croatia to say that 23 years after the formal end of the war, it is still not demining, the question is how much it loses the state budget itself because of how much damage we suffer because we have not put the country into office, which no one lives on that country and what we actually have certain counties, where there is a real wasteland.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75475	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjc, for his response, for the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75476	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, Director of the Mine Action Center. Well, here we have two reports for 2015 and 2016, which clearly underlines all the data on what was done during that year so in 2015, demining operations were realised in all counties, in line with the plan except in counties where realisation depended on the demining of agricultural land by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The reason is later the beginning of the complete demining of agricultural land and the unrealization of 2 projects demining agricultural land, one in Požega Slavonska, one in Osijek Baranja County. On 31.12.2015, mine suspected areas in the Republic of Croatia amounted to 467 million... thousands of 335 square meters or 467,4 km square. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The work of waving in 2015 removed the threat of mine explosive assets and the negative area of 40 million 604 thousand and 07 square meters, from which the method of demining with 28 million 524 thousand 39 square meters and by search method with 12 million 79 thousand 968 square meters. In order to carry out demining operations at the Croatian Mine Action Centre in early 2015, 40 authorised legal persons employed by 650 pyrotechnicians were accredited, with 55 demining machines and 30 dogs for the detection of mine explosives and negatives. At the end of December 2015 46 authorised legal persons have been accredited to carry out search and demining operations, which employ 653 pyrotechnicians who own 55 demining machines and 42 detecting dogs... The largest share of demining in 2015 was by Mungos, Demining d.o.o. 8.37%, Researcher d.o.o. at 6.61%), Doking demining d.o.o. At 6,36%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These companies have a uniform and maximum capacity to carry out demining operations. On 31.12.2015, 46 authorised legal entities employed by 653 pyrotechnicians were accredited to carry out demining operations. If we compare this information to the data on 1.1.2015, when 40 authorised legal persons, employees, were registered to carry out the wave work... pyrotechnics, we can conclude that in 2015 there has been no significant increase in capacity in humanitarian spoiling, but there has been a marked increase in the number of authorised legal persons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The analysis of the capacity of all authorised legal entities found that the maximum number of authorised legal persons employed between 10 and 12 pyrotechnicians. 317 positive and 11 negative solutions have been adopted, and 85 contractors have been introduced into the business. 646 expert controls were carried out in the course of search and demining operations, and 32 cases identified irregularities and unskilled work causing repeated operations on the surface of 84 thousand 379 square metres. 19 tip-offs, inventions were received... Of which 14 finds were related to areas which were subject to the performance of the business, and 5 finds refer to inventions outside mine suspected areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The largest realisation was during March and April, and in particular during October, November and December, which is understandable because in mid-September they started demining operations on which all the capacities were employed, but such realization was achieved mostly due to the possibility of using machines to prepare the area on almost all agricultural areas. The average employment of pyrotechnicians was even throughout the year with a derogation during February and September, when it was the smallest. During February, the cause of unfavourable weather conditions as well as the realisation of demining operations during the month, and during September as most of the contracted transactions were completed during August, and with demining agricultural land only started in mid-September when all formal pre-conditions were concluded by a tender issued by the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. The average effects were uniform between January and September, and that something increased during October, November and December. It is a significant use of machines to prepare surfaces that greatly facilitate the work of pyrotechnics after machines, but also make significant contributions to safety of work. At the end of 2015, 12.9% of mine suspected areas in the Republic of Croatia were identified as agricultural areas, 86.8% of mine suspected areas as forest areas, and 0.3% of mine suspected areas such as other surfaces, water and swamps, wetland, rocks, rinks, rocks, coasts, etc. All planned jobs were carried out in 2015 and the mine suspected area of Vukovar-Srijem County was completely removed. The completion of years of demining operations in Vukovar-Srijem County has achieved long-term efforts to ensure the safety of the population and return of agricultural and forest goods to community use, thus increasing the economic potential of the county. ... The implementation of the general survey and demining operations in 2015 was one of the major activities of the Croatian Mine Action Centre and was the implementation and control of the marking and, where appropriate, the additional marking of mine suspected areas and areas polluted by mine-exploding means and unexploded killings to create a clear border between safe and mine suspected surfaces or areas polluted exclusively by unexploded killings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the 2015 plan, education on the dangers of MES and NUS in 11 counties and the city of Zagreb was carried out. 69 educations were held in 51 towns and municipalities, and more than 8.5 thousand citizens were educated in total. Citizens, students, climbers, members of the Croatian Hunting Union, Croatian Forests, GSS, farmers, scouts, volunteers and others. In 2015, two mine incidents occurred in which 3 people were killed, one fatal, two with severe bodily injuries, and all 3 people were pyrotechnicists. Incidents happened on demining operations. From the end of the Homeland War, i.e. from 1.1.1996 to 31.12.2015, 417 incidents and accidents involving a total of 585 people were fatal, 200 people were injured, 269 people were injured, and 115 were injured by minor physical injuries. In total, from 1991 to 31.12.2015, 1357 mine incidents and accidents killed 1982 people, of which 513 people died. And now let's say something about 2016, since we have so much time left. A report on the implementation of the plan and for that year, the implementation of demining operations in the Republic of Croatia in 2016 was planned and reduced mine suspected areas by 62.4 km square, in 2016 the implementation of all demining and technical reconnaissance operations was planned to reduce mine suspected areas by at least 86.4 km square. On 31.12.2016, mine suspected areas of the Republic of Croatia were 446 million 561 thousand 400 square meters, or 446.6 km square. In 2016 demining operations were realised in accordance with the plan, except in the part where the realisation depended on the European Structural Funds. In order to carry out demining operations at the Croatian Mine Action Centre in early 2016, 46 authorised legal persons were accredited in which 653 pyrotechnicians were employed, with 55 demining machines and 42 dogs for the detection of MES and NUS. At the end of December 2016, 41 authorised persons were accredited and carried out demining operations in which 600 pyrotechnics owned 51 surface-preparation machines and 60 mine detection dogs were employed. During the completion of the quality control, the Commission for Final Quality Control found in 4 cases that the tasks were not carried out in quality, and it was ordered to repeat jobs at a total of 15 thousand 783 metres square. During 2016 30 information was received on mine-explosive inventions and unexploded killings from which 17 inventions were related to areas which were the subject of operations, and 13 findings were related to findings outside mine suspected areas. The largest demining stake in 2016 was owned by Researcher d.o.o. 7.44%, Doking mines at 7.28%, Mungos demining d.o.o. At 6.46%. The average employment of pyrotechnicians was uniform throughout the year, with a derogation during May and June, during these months caused adverse weather conditions and a lot of rain, as well as the realization of demining operations during these months and a significant use of machines to prepare surfaces that greatly facilitate the work of pyrotechnicians, after machines but also a significant contribution to safety of work. The reduction of mine suspected areas and technical reconnaissance since 2016 has not been achieved to the greatest extent due to insufficient capacity to carry out operations at the Croatian Mine Action Centre. In 2015, the Croatian Mine Action Centre requested the approval of the Ministry of Interior for the employment of 10 pyrotechnicians to perform reconnaissance operations. The approval was received in the second quarter of 2016 and only 6 pyrotechnicians who met the prescribed conditions were employed during the third quarter. In 2016, 5 mine incidents occurred in which 7 people were killed, 3 of whom were fatal and 4 with minor physical injuries. Six victims are pyrotechnics and one of the victims is an auxiliary agent in demining. In 2016, there were no further mine accidents. Since the end of the Homeland War, i.e. from 1.1.1996 to 31.12.2016, as I said earlier, a huge number of these incidents and accidents in which 595 people died in total. During the year 523 198 892 kunas were secured from which 404 074 866 kuna were contracted in 2016 and 295 560 kuna was realised. In total, 509 610 942 kunas were planned from all sources of financing for demining operations at the time of the adoption of the 2016 mine action plan. Thanks to the efforts and understanding of all state bodies, 523 198 892 kunas have been provided with the largest work from funds and EU assistance, which has been agreed on by 404 074 866 kuna and only 295 560 kunas have been realised. In 2016, a total of 38 263 980 square meters were demined, worth 234 611 750 kuna without VAT, of course, which is the average price of 6.13 kuna per metre square metre without VAT. A slight decline in the average price of demining operations compared to the average price of contracted transactions in 2015, 6.23 kuna per metre square, was seen as a consequence of the movement on the market which in the first months of 2016 brought significant lower prices of offers than estimated purchase values and the structure of the reference surfaces. A large proportion of agricultural areas on which most of the jobs can be done using land-preparation and mine-explosive and explosive-exploded killing machines. Here are two reports for 2 years of work, and I hope that all indicators are clearly shown through them, and what the HDZ club can say, we will support these reports and we will accept these reports, although in these years it is seen that there are still still funds that have not been used, that much more could be done in view of the capacities that we have in the Republic of Croatia so that the debate and replicas that have been sent through this debate are absolutely not standing, that excessive funds have been used, that everything that has been recorded as suspicious or found within the fields that have been demining or outside of them have been re-controlled. Yes, it is true that there were some companies that had frequent errors and actually failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75477	I thank my colleague Djakic for this debate. On behalf of the rapporteur, Minister of State Zarko Katic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thank all respected MPs and MPs for their comments and suggestions, but I would like to refer to some exhibitions, primarily on Mr Bunjec's presentations. I must tell you that, you mentioned outsourcing to private companies, since 1998, so over 20 years after RJ has been identified for this demining system, when the Croatian Mine Action Centre is established, all demining operations are done by private companies, all those that I have initially cited, 40 authorised legal persons who have the authority to work are private and these transactions are provided by the basis of public procurement according to the law and laws and sublaws. We're going down by priority. So, priorities are what units of local self-government, counties, cities and municipalities point out, public companies, these are areas that first approach, which are essential for a smooth life and work. It was said that no mine explosives were found on demining surfaces, that is not true because more than 90% of demining surfaces are found and mine explosive or non-explosive killings are found. According to CROMAC estimates, there are about 38,000 different types of mines in these remaining 400km square meters. As regards controls, there are several degrees of control, first internal control of the company itself, then control in progress of CROMAC and finally final quality control carried out by CROMAC staff and together with new law, together with CROMAC inspectors. As regards land returned to the community, according to the Croatian Mine Action Centre, it is not authorised to establish the further purpose of the land for which the owner decides, and it would be best to bring the land to the purpose of some agricultural production or such, but unfortunately it is not always the case. As for the persons you mentioned who made the remarks, I call on all those who have objections or to point out some actions that do not comply with the law and regulations to tell both the MUP and the CROMAC and all the authorised bodies, I can only say that the persons you mentioned did not bear the consequences, they continue to work in CROMAC, and the husband of the gentleman you mentioned has even become the head of the Quality Control Service. The Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Interior and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is doing everything possible to ensure that this truly complex demanding problem and demanding jobs are rarely so deadly as demining operations, to approach them with due care, to strictly comply with laws, sublegal acts and rules of profession that certified pyrotechnicians, machines and to do this work as soon as possible. But that speed must not, of course, go to the expense of quality when a confirmation is issued that some space is cleared from mines, it must indeed be so, and that all those users of that space are certain that something bad will not happen to them. I think this data on the absence of civilian victims, mine victims for the two years we filed reports plus the absence of any casualties in the past 2017 is on the best track to solve this problem as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75479	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Katic, for the final word. Replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75480	Thank you very much. Mr. Katic. So you have your opinions, I have your attitudes, you have your information, me and each other in a way we're being defined by those who deal with this business. The public will assess which of us is the administration, and will also assess the demining staff themselves. What I would like to mention here is that I am sorry that, even now, in your closing statement, you did not say at least roughly when Croatia should finally be demined. So you're quietly admitting that these jobs will last from 10 to 20 years like I said in my club presentation, and that's not good. I simply believe that in this time of available means, at this time when we have professional services, when we have enough pyrotechnics, this whole job should be accelerated. This constant delay under the Ottova Convention and the constant demand for some new deadlines sends a very bad message in general about the Croatian state, and especially about this problem which is burning and which, in my humble opinion, should have long been resolved. So I'm asking you next time you come to the Parliament, and I guess that's going to be next year, at least tell us framely... it could be over so much and so much if there's no bigger problems. I think there's some assessment in this matter that can be made and that that information should not be hidden from the public. This is how it turns out that someone wants the job to be done as long as possible, and only to benefit from it personally, not from society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75481	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Mr Katic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75482	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. I said in my introduction that by the end of this month, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose a deadline for the final demining of the Republic of Croatia and believe that this proposal will be at least twice as small as what you pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75483	I thank you for your response to Secretary of State Katic. This is what we've exhausted all the debates. I'm closing the debate. I thank another secretary of state at the MUP, Mr. Zark Katić, for the reasons and director of CROMAC Mr. Zdravko Mudrusan. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75484	Report on the implementation of mine action activities and spent financial resources in 2015 and 2016 The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, to the following conclusion: A report on the implementation of mine action activities and the financial resources spent in 2015 and 2016 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 90 votes and 3 votes against it, are the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75485	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2016. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 6 of the Act. The law on the execution of a prison sentence. The hearing was conducted by the committee responsible for the judiciary. I call on State Secretary of Justice Mr. Juru Martinovic to give us an additional explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75486	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So I'm going to present you with the Annual report on the state of work of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2016. It is located in front of you, containing basic indicators of the numerous states and structure of the prisoners, the type, the description of the dealings with prisoners, the number, the structure of officials as well as the financial management of the prison system. In order to compare data and results from earlier years as well as due to the legal obligation in terms of content, the annual report generally contains the same parts as reports in previous periods. Jurisdiction and mode of work of the Administration of the Prison System as well as the rights of prisoners are prescribed by the Law on the Penalty of Prison, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, national laws and international contracts. According to the legal provisions and in the constituencies of the Administration of the Prison System in which the sentence of imprisonment is imposed shall be carried out by adult persons who have been sentenced to prison in criminal, criminal or other judicial proceedings and the sentence of imprisonment replaced by a fine and the security measures imposed with the punishment of minors, younger minors who have been sentenced to juvenile imprisonment shall also be subject to an educational measure of reference to the institution imposed on minors. The Administration of the Prison System shall be responsible for the enforcement of the measure of investigative prison, criminal detention and extradition detention. The total legal capacity in 2016 in penitentiary and prisons was 3900 prisoners of which 2890 in closed conditions, in semi-open 725 places, and in open conditions 285 places. During 2016, 11173 prisoners of various formal and legal status went through the prison system of the Republic of Croatia. Because of gender in the prison system, male prisoners dominate 96%, women 4%. This trend in gender is relatively stable over the years. Compared to 2015, 11575. The total number of prisoners who passed through the prison system of the Republic of Croatia in 2016 is lower by 4%. During 2016, the prison sentence was maintained by 4595 prisoners representing 41% of the total number of prison population in 2016 in the prison system compared to 2015 during which the sentence was maintained by 5141 prisoners recorded a reduction of 11%. With the maintenance of the prison sentence, prisoners were fired during that period in 1967. Out of the total number of prisoners and minors in the maintenance of a prison sentence of more than 6 months and minors in juvenile prison during 2016, 66% were sentenced earlier, and 42% were in prison before. For the first time, 70 percent of women and 53% of men are present at a prison sentence based on gender on 31.12.2016. The sentence of juvenile prison shall be carried out in the Department of Treatment of minors in the penitentiary and prison in Požega, in closed and semi-open conditions, and in the open conditions of the Department of Treatment of minors in the penitentiary in Valtura. Women's persons are being punished by juvenile prisons in the Department of Treatment of minors in the penitentiary and prison in Požega. During 2016 there were 25 minors and no minors. At 31.12.2016, there were 4 minors at the execution of a juvenile prison sentence. A breeding measure in the educational institution is being carried out at the Turopolje Men's Educational Institute and the Educational Institute in Požega Women. In accordance with the Regulation on the way in which the educational measure is to be applied to a juvenile or minor educational institution is to be classified as a positive incentive group under open conditions, a educational group under semi-open conditions or a training group of enhanced care and supervision under closed conditions. During 2016, there were 80 minors and 9 minors at the care of the educational care measure. At the end of 2016, 38 minors and 7 minors were trained in the educational institution. During 2016, a total of 3927 prisoners were held in prison. Of these, 262 were women or 6.67% of prisoners who had a measure of prison for investigation compared to the total number of prisoners during 2016 account for 35% of minors with a pronounced measure of prison in the course of the year were 33 and 0.84%, respectively. On 31.12.2016, a total of 770 prisoners or 24.7% of the total number of all categories of prisoners was 3108. And at the end of 2016, the investigation prison measure was held by 2.96% more investigative prisoners compared to 2015. Compared to 31.12.2015, a slight increase in the number of investigating prisoners was observed again. The term is for prisoners who have been sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings and prisoners who have been sentenced to prisons that have been replaced and fined by the execution of sentences in prisons as well as inmates who have been given detention in criminal proceedings. In 2016, a total of 2426 people were held in these three statuses, of which 468 prisoners were sentenced to prison in the criminal proceedings, 1841 prisoners sentenced to fines, fines replaced by prison sentences, and 117 persons who were given detention in the criminal proceedings. During 2016, the trend of reducing the total number of prisoners continued, with a slight increase in the total number of judicial police officers compared to 2015. Looking at the movement of the number of prisoners, we note that it is only one of the elements taken into account through the implementation of all activities and have a significant impact on the management of security risks. The number of prisoners to one judicial police officer is more favourable than a number of recent years, and on December 31st 2016, this relationship is slightly less than two prisoners to one judicial police officer. The number of suicide attempts recorded is 9 prisoners in 2016. It is identical to the 2015 data, i.e. 9 such risk forms of prisoner behaviour were recorded. The number of prisoners' deaths is 11 in 2016. It's the same as the year before, and no cases of suicide were recorded. The total value of the reported attempted escape of juvenile prisoners during 2016 is higher than in 2015 for three such incident events. During 2016, the most fugitives were registered in the category of abuse of convenience and non-refundable with termination of sentence. In total, the two categories were 27 fugitives. They're running away. No prisoner escapes have been recorded during the implementation of the open conditions, taking into account all the elements arising from the monitoring of the situation and work, and by comparing them with the past period, the security situation can be assessed as good. The fullness of the systematicised jobs on 31.12.2016 in the establishment units of the Administration for the Prison System provided jobs with a systematiced number of executives would be 3939. They were filled with 2625 employees, down from 2015. In all departments, there are unfulfilled jobs which result in prison execution operations being carried out throughout the observed period under somewhat difficult conditions, which also contributes to the financial constraints of the state budget. During 2016, the Administration for the Prison System of the Ministry of Justice of the State Department stopped 127 employees, of which 32 women and 95 men. The sum of the operating results according to the report on revenue and expenditure for the period January-December 2016 are shown in the following basic characteristics: therefore, the prison system used 439 million kunas from the budget, the proceeds from the sale of products and services of the prison system are 32 million and slightly more and other revenues and receipts of 8 million and 900 million. In total, income and income of 480 million for 2016 expenditures and expenditures of 485 and something more, therefore, the lack of income for the observed period was 4 million and 900, the deficit in the previous year, therefore, comparatively in 2015 was 6 and 300. Dear MPs and MPs, this is the report we present to you and we suggest that you adopt it after the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75487	I thank the respected secretary of state, Mr. Martinovic, for his explanation. We have one replica. Dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75488	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Martinovic, there was already a public debate on the state of our penitentiary and capacity, and it was then said that we lack capacity, that in order to improve conditions for prisoners, certain investments are planned, so here is a convenient opportunity to tell the Croatian public what appears to be in this respect to improve the conditions for the accommodation of prisoners and whether new prisons or facilities are planned, and others, you yourself mentioned in the report that there is a lack of judicial police staff in most units, we believe that this is not good, that it should not be spared on this, because we already know that these are difficult working conditions, working with prisoners and with prisoners, and that there is a need to fill these jobs, you should make sure that these employees have both adequate equipment and adequate pay because we already have the opportunity to hear that both the MUP, and customs, precisely because they are motivated and have better quality of work planning and will increase the law in the planned sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75489	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. Answer, Secretary of State Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75490	Dear Representative, therefore, the capacity, if you have seen in the prison system report are at this time and were then for 2016, significantly above the number of prisoners who are placed on the annual level in the prison system. So today's capacity, and there were 3900 people back then, we are then, and on today we have, moving that number somewhere between 3000 and 3200. So, after that transfer that was 7-8 years ago, after governments before and then made certain efforts and the Ministry of Justice, the Department of the Prison System, therefore, the problem has been solved. We no longer have lawsuits once sued by the Republic of Croatia for poor conditions in the prison system. So, a new service has been created that you've all heard of, and it's a probation service that has significantly relieved the prison system, and we don't have any more of these problems of transferability, nor does the Republic of Croatia currently have plans to build new prison facilities in view of that fact. As far as the report mentions some lack of officials of the primary judicial police, we are as a responsible ministry, as a responsible prison system administration, so we do transfer from a criminal body to a criminal body if we need it, but now and without excessive overtime, which is also brought into one, I would say, a completely solid order, we meet all needs and, as you can see by the report, as you can track through the media, the prison system in the Republic of Croatia is well arranged and stable, therefore, there are no incidents, and whether there will be pay increases, it is not the primary matter of the Ministry of Justice and the Department of Prison System. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75491	I thank Mr. Martinovic for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Ante Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75492	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. We have an annual report on the state and work and penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for the year 2016, which is the basis of the law, of course, the Ministry of Penitentiary and Prisons reports to the Government who then directs us here once a year for debate in the Croatian Parliament. As he joined the EU, he increased the previously assumed obligations of the security guard to protect the rights of prisoners during his stay in prison and minors in educational institutions, particularly in order to ensure the necessary care, human treatment, the safe environment, all in order to ensure a more stable and better co-existence in such units and stay in prison and after release. This annual report on the state and diagnostics for 2016 contains basic indicators, numerous states, the structure of prisoners, species and everything is very extensive so that we should definitely commend the rapporteur and the ministry on such a comprehensive report with a lot of statistics and is easily reviewed and easily seen by a brief insight into this report only the situation in our prison system. In the report itself, we see that as far as juvenile prisons and prisons are concerned, investigative prisons, they are all conducted in 8 penitentiary facilities, 12 prisons, 2 educational institutions and the Centre for Diagnosis in Zagreb, and here, as the Secretary of State has informed us, it should be noted again that 11 183 prisoners have passed through our system and 96% of them are men. As for 31.12.2016 and the situation that occurred at the time, there were 3 108 prisoners, it should be noted that from 3 108, 2 208 prisoners were in prison, 770 in investigation and 85 in criminal offences and 45 educational measures. So the total legal capacity of the penitentiary and the prison was 3,900 and here, as was the response to the replica of the fellow secretary, the State Secretary pointed out that we are standing there well and that the capacity of the prison at this point was not exceeded, which I think is particularly important to the quality of life-supporting prisons had the greatest observation in general on the re-repair and here, it is good to keep this under control at this point but, of course, to note that, despite the current sub-capacitation, it is also necessary to consider that the existing infrastructure and systems are being improved and ultimately built and new. It is also interesting data in this report, related to crimes and prisoners, what the structure of the crimes themselves is. Most of the prisoners are currently involved in crimes against property, so 39% and crimes against life and the body. It should also be noted that the systematization itself, meaning the regulation on the internal structure of the MUP, which envisioned the framework for the systematicisation of jobs where we see that the difference in 2015 and 2016 is less in the system although there may be this ratio which may not be at first sight or bad, which is two prisoners to one judicial police officer, we see that the ministry also predicted in the systemisation itself a sufficient number of jobs so that there is definitely room for progress and space to hire new employees that are definitely needed in this system. As far as the rights of our prisoners are concerned, we know who all foresees control from the prison system itself and the justice system and who is all exercising control of the same, and that these complaints to the judge of execution by the prisoners were 145 complaints in 2016, which is an increase for some 14 complaints but inmates also have the right to file complaints and to the attorney general, the lawyer and all the lawyers in the system, from the child defenders, to protect persons with disabilities, gender equality, so that in 2016 it should be noted that these institutions were the same 239 complaints. For this report, it is interesting to note that these complaints were related to the conditions of accommodation, 27 complaints, health care, 30 complaints, officers' treatment, 122 violations of other human rights, 16 complaints and decisions of courts, DORH and other notices, etc., 44 complaints. It is important to point out that the Central Office of the Administration of the Prison System itself has carried out 8 inspections and 7 administrative supervisions, as well as supervision of the handling of prisoners in penitentiary and prisons and minors in educational institutions, together with other institutions. As I pointed out at the outset, the report is extensive, containing a really large number of statistics that are quite interesting, we see from this report from the ministry that the system works regardless of many changes normally that we can put into it, but normally, the main problem is financing and we see the debt and deficit itself from year to year of some 5 million kuna where there is now some lack of income and coverage for 2017 about 11 million kuna. So the more we secure funds in the budget for the ministry and later on for the prison system, the more employees we will have normal and better conditions. With all this attached, the HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75493	Now let's go to Live Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75494	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are interested in the situation in prisons and we are particularly interested in 2 details that are not actually spoken of in public, one is, if you can tell us Justice Minister Juro Marinović, does he know how many prisoners are infected with HIV in prisons and what is the number of rapes in prisons, year by year, how have they been moving over the last 5 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75495	You can answer now or later.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75496	On these issues specifically, therefore, in the report that such a thing was not treated, therefore, it would have been an incident event, if for the observed period such incident events had taken place they would have been covered by the report, since they were not present in the report, it would have to mean that, when we talk about rape, right? And in 2016, therefore, hepatitis tests, 278 people were tested by prisoners, of course, 41.7% of whom were positive, so it's only a sign that in the prison system, given the population as it is, it takes care and that such persons, that such persons are being helped within the prison system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75497	Replica, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75498	If I understand correctly, then the report doesn't mention the number of rapes, or even rape is not mentioned, which is to be concluded that there was actually no rape in prison, if I understood correctly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75499	Let's move on, now it's time for a respected colleague, Zeljko Jovanovic, to discuss it individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75500	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will in my debate, briefly look back, as a follow-up on the topic we had, today during the morning, and that is the problem of addiction. So, surely one of the major problems that they encounter in the prison system is addicts, according to the data we have from this report were 1349 addicts, 48% of them were opiate addicts, there are 34 minors, and as far as alcohol is concerned, 925 were alcoholics, if we may say. So why am I pointing out this problem? Because all reports concerning health care in the prison system indicate that this health care is not adequate. Here we also had a discussion about psychotherapy some time ago, where exactly the prison system, highlighted as a place where prisoners are not given adequate psychotherapy support where it is extremely significant. So, apart from supporting the punishment for the misdeeds and crimes committed, all prisoners through various forms of assistance, including through health care, psychotherapy, help should achieve the improvement of some of their life functions, so that, upon returning to society, they can function normally. Among other things, these data are worrying, we also see that in 2015 there were 107395 health checks and 2016 incredibly 31,000 less. So, in 2016, there were 76294 reviews in the prison system. The report justified the decline of the total number of prisoners, however, I do not think that the decline was such that the number of health checks would be reduced this much, but rather that it was the result of the lack of health care professionals in prisons. We know that the doctor is missing in the entire health system, so it is logical that he is in the health system having a problem getting a doctor even bigger, but it is therefore necessary to find a way to ensure that health care is at a higher level. I further point out this because of the drug addict's problem, because at this point, prison addicts are provided exclusively or angles. treatment with medicines, standards of therapy, as is common with methadone, uprenofin or with novoxone, however, this second form of psychotherapy support is completely absent. It is also alarming that in the case of testing in 2005, 573 prisoners were found unauthorized, which also points to another problem of inadequate care for prisoners. So my question in this direction, which seems to be that the health care of all the sick and especially addicts would be at a higher level than they are right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75501	We have one replica, right? Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75502	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Jovanovic, I am glad that you as a doctor have raised this question. And this explanation that the total amount of resources needed to treat is reduced to reduce the number of prisoners, too, is not standing, because if we look at the pt. 124 of this report in chapter 4 where it's about doing business in a penitentiary, then we see the same worrying data. In 2012, when talking about the average daily cost per prisoner, 9.26 kn, 2013-8.49 2014-6.44 2015.-3.14 2016-3.25 was allocated for treatment. So, for a third less, and we're talking about average, so something's going on with the treatment of our prisoners, because it's impossible that he's so down or they're suddenly getting healthier or something's going on in that item savings. I've even read somewhere in the report, in one part, watch this speaking health technician, that they recognize, let's now conditionally say simulants, those who would just like to get away... Where a medical technician has that right, and then it seems to me that according to what you're saying, there's not enough doctors, who might recognize any symptoms, might save these people's lives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75503	Answer, here's my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75504	That's why I asked this question, I hope the Secretary of State will at least partially explain this dilemma to us. If and cannot explain that the next period will try to ensure better healthcare because too much contradictory data is therefore a major decline in the provided health services within the prison system, while the growth of consular specialist reviews outside the healthcare system, a lack, a great wait for the arrival of penalties and at the same time we are talking about the decline of the number of prisoners. So there are misunderstandings and we deserve to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75505	Okay. We are now going to the final address on behalf of the rapporteur, once more respected Secretary of State Jure Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75506	Thank you. Honorable MPs and MPs. Here's since I would say what was troubled, I answered, and now with respect to what the honourable representative Jovanovic is saying. So, first of all, this report is for 2016 and I could say that it stated what was done in 2016. This government, I'd say, I've been a secretary of state since last year. But since I quickly met the prison system and knew something about it as a lawyer from before. So I can tell you all that exactly the prison system and the Ministry of Justice are making a serious effort to repair the system in that segment of prisoner health care. I can tell you, at this point, he can't possibly be characterized as bad. So everyone, if it were different, would be throwing lawsuits at us. Believe me, all prisoners are educated, they have lawyers and everything that we do not provide them under the standard of the prison system at European level towards Croatia goes in this regard. So these numbers that you're well-intentioned about, I'm sure you're playing, so they're not problematic. We are at this point reducing the costs of treatment for the reasons we have made efforts and making them today that as many prisoners as possible are provided, that the more prisoners use their insurance policies, the more difficult it was for a time because our doctors were not licensed. Well, our prison system doctors had to contact their general practice doctors to get prescriptions so they could raise their medicines for free. So we're currently in phase, I'm guessing in a parliamentary debate of the Health Protection Act. We've done our best,... prison system, the Ministry of Justice, to install into this law some elements to strengthen our healthcare facilities primary hospital, prison hospital in Zagreb, as well as hospitals by criminal authorities in order to bring this matter to an even higher and better level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what I can tell you is that the prison system is not in any of its segments, nor in that health care is problematic. Be assured that there is good, good quality, and that efforts are made to ensure that those people who find themselves there are against their will and because they have violated social norms in no way are damaged and that they are given adequate health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75507	I thank Secretary of State Martinovic. This led us to the end of the debate. I'm locking them up. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2016. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. Report on the state and operation of the penitentiary, prisons and educational institutions for 2016 is hereby accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 89 for and 2 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75510	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs, respected MPs. We have three reports for 2014, 2015 and 2016 of the Agency for Electronic Media. For the introduction, I would say a few words about this total period and later I would refer to each of these years separately. Following the digitisation of 2010, Croatian citizens received more television channels. In addition to these television channels there has been a fragmentation of audiences so that today's ratings are scattered between 13 channels available on the earth's network through national multiples. TV channels and audiovisual production in Croatia are also influenced by foreign television channels available in Croatia via charging platforms. In an observed period of 3 years, we can say that the biggest problems were the local media in Earth distribution and financial problems. We also note, in line with this, the increase in the importance of our fund for the promotion of pluralism and the diversity of electronic media in their business, where their survival often depends on the resources shared by our agency to these local media. It can be said that the only market that is continuously growing during this period where the market is the provider of electronic publications where we also notice a major problem for our society, a speech of hatred that undermines the basic values of every democratic society and I assume there will be the greatest struggle in the regulation of electronic media in the years to come. The amendments to the Law on Electronic Media made in 2013 have not helped regulate hate speech, and today we can say that after these changes we have an unbalanced approach when we look at sanctioning to media types. At that time in 2013, new users of our Fund were introduced for the promotion of pluralism and diversity of electronic media, thus withdrawing non-profit providers of electronic publications, non-profit producers of radio and non-profit audiovisual programs for the first time. During the observed period, the Agency has continued to analyse the programme itself, which is the most relevant to the information, entertainment programme, but also orders research from other agencies that we hope will be used in the next amendments to the Electronic Media Act as a quality basis in combination with our experience in implementing the Electronic Media Act. Our agency participates in debates at European level regarding amendments to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. There will certainly be new elements where we can talk again about fighting hate speech, but now on platforms like social networks and video-sharing platforms. In the context of day-to-day work, we are working with regulators of other countries which through networks such as EPRA where 46 regulators participate or through the European Commission ERGA Expert Group where we are essentially considering the problem of implementing the Audiovisual Media Services Directive in a local context. The Agency and the Council of Electronic Media attach great importance to the promotion of media literacy, so we had several campaigns where we encouraged media literacy not only of children, but of parents, we work a lot on the education of journalists. This weekend in Zagreb, we also had one education of hate speech-related journalists, and we bring in world experts to teach about hate speech as such. The last one was in March 2016 when we brought in Prof. Wolfgang Benedek of the University of Graz, who is a valid hate speech expert. After 2014 due to financial problems, he would immediately point out that as many as four radio publishers give up their concessions at local levels. The Council shall issue a total of 30 warnings, 5 warnings, 1 criminal order and 1 indictment proposal in its work. Out of complaints from citizens where we get essentially between 150 and 190 complaints per year. This year, we received 7775 complaints on the HRT daily for not showing the speech of Bishop Mate Uzanić on the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Vukovar. However, here we must also note that these complaints have been generated and sent with the help of CitizenGo, which otherwise serves as petitions of citizens, so it is a phenomenon which has been specific for that year. In 2015, there continues to be a negative trend in giving up concessions, even three concessionaries gave up, but we can also point out one positive moment, which is that in three areas we have managed to allocate three new concessions for local television in the town of Zapresic. We have a new radio in Osijek, and by the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, it means non-profit radio in Osijek, and a new local radio in Belist. In 2015, the Agency and the Council implemented the adjustment of the sub-legal framework where we amended and adopted one new regulation, and it is about the mandatory application of unused rights. That year, the Council issued 34 warnings, 12 warnings and 1 violation warrant. In 2016, she was particularly interesting in our work. Here we have assigned two new local televisions, one in the digital D2 region covering Bjelovarsko-Biogorska, Virovitičko-podravska, Požeko-slavonska and part of Brod-Posavina County and one new concession in the Zagreb area for Laudato TV television. In that year, the council issued 31 warnings, 6 warnings and 3 violations. In the context of the regulation of hate speech in 2016, the Council temporarily seized the concession on three days of local television in Zagreb, which led to... protests. In March of that year, I mentioned we organized a round table on this topic. And for now, I'd like to stop with my exposure, and I'd be happy to answer your questions and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75511	Thank you, too. Now let's go to the replicas. First came from a colleague named Glavasevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75512	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Good afternoon again, we saw each other the other day on the Media Committee. I can see that your presentation today on the tide is somewhat different from the one on the board, which I welcome. I see you've focused among other things on some of the topics that we've put out on the board and I'd say as a matter of fact there's an emphasis on them, so it's one of them and a hate speech. I have to admit, I'm a little sorry you didn't mention Benedek earlier. But okay, I'm not gonna deal with it right now. I just wanted to ask you, you said the 2013 law produced an unbalanced regulation of hate speech depending on the type of media. So if you could just explain a little bit what you meant by that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75513	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75514	Therefore, the honourable representative my comment referred to the sanctions of Article 12(2) where, in radio and television, the only penalty is temporary or permanent confiscation of concessions. There's one illogicality, so electronic publications can't be punished that way. We also have an article in this law of the same paragraph 1 where, for example, to endanger national security and constitutional order, we have provided financial sanctions, while for the hate speech today we do not essentially have respect for the principles of proportionality in Croatia. So, basically, the acquis by joining the EU is talking about two bases for each of our decisions. One is the legal basis, and the other is the principle of proportionality. If we don't have that principle here, then we're still at a crossroads where for every offense, the only sanction is the withdrawal of the concession.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75515	Thank you. Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75516	Thank you very much, esteemed President, Mr. Hajduk, the honorary president of the agency, the representatives of the Ministry of Culture. My question is about a recent case in which the Council has reached a unanimous decision, with regard to the attempt to take over NOVA TV by the United Group or Slovenia Broadenda. And since total television at the time was as controversial as regards those provisions of the law that someone who performs the same services under the Telecommunications Act, therefore Internet services in a fixed telephone communications network cannot perform radio diffusion services because one rules out the other, that recently the United Group representative and in the media said that they would solve this problem in terms of unauthorized concentration, again report to you on the competition they probably did. And now I suppose some move by the Agency for Electronic Media, i.e. the Council under the Law on Electronic Media, must call for a session and what will continue to be, given that the new circumstances are now new, and the Law on Electronic Media continues to prescribe what it has prescribed before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75517	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75518	That our decision is expected with impatience from most interested. However, as far as I understand this legal system is concerned, I should not comment on the process in progress. That's how you'd apologize and not comment on this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75519	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then we will also offer an opportunity to speak to a respected colleague, Krešimir Partlu, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture. He won't talk either. So we're going to the club debates. The first is the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75520	Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't expect any comment on the proceedings in progress, but just to say the time frame in which you plan to make your decision. Of course we can't prejudge the decision or get out of the legal framework. Here last week we had the same HINA report, so 2014, 15th and 16th since these discussions didn't get any big interest as it says in that song or who cares, or who knows now. Probably in this sense we'll continue to discuss. It's not us. Therefore, as a body responsible for the work of the Electronic Media Agency, it should not, except in exceptional circumstances, be brought into this situation to discuss, with this much time-out, the work of the Agency for Electronic Media and the work of HINA as well as the other bodies and the Agency for which we are responsible. But here's the thing, given that there were exceptional circumstances in the last session, then we have some justification. These are one standard enforcement reports. Therefore, in accordance with Article 67 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The law on electronic media, on the enforcement of all those provisions and activities which the Agency and the Council on Electronic Media are required under the Law on Electronic Media. And what is imposed on me as equative and, in fact, on the basis of all of these cases which have been processed over these three years by the Agency and the Council, but also on the basis of everything that is related to the Agency's work and role, but also on the basis of all of those problems which today actually concern the areas of electronic media or audio visual area, so to speak, the broader is what is evident, and that is that Croatian media legislation, and I have already said that several times literally calls for urgent legislative changes. And not with any minor changes. Today we should do a comprehensive revision of legislation, because to say metaphorically maybe it's best to express ourselves here. These shoes have become too tight for us and our legs literally don't fit in those shoes anymore. We urgently need some new custom shoes, which might be the most metaphorical as they say. Although these are reports from previous years I would personally more about the agency and its competencies. Of course we're going to talk about all the relevant things, speak in terms of what needs to be changed rather than in terms of what was three years ago because it's a bit of a real thing of the past. Any decision taken by the Agency in previous periods was made on the basis of the existing Electronic Media Act. Therefore, all those decisions made under the law should be observed in that light. But if I don't open too wide right now, there's gonna be a chance. Although this is all really one topic, what needs to be set aside as positive things, and we have a lot of positive things, regardless of the need to amend legislation in some other segments, these are sublegal acts that the Agency for Electronic Media has brought and are very good at. The sublegal act which he has singled out and the Agency's director is the one concerning the protection of minors on the Internet and electronic media and it is certainly a very commendable sublegal act and is a good model. It's also what's very good, and it's a fund to promote pluralism and diversity of the media. It's also a quality sublegal act that's been going through a lot of different work until it's brought into this stage where it's now, and now it's in phase that some other countries are asking about the model of the fund's work because it's proven to be good. He proved himself good because I'm going to metaphorically say one Robin Hood element again, which is to take away those he can take away and give to those who need it. Because there isn't a fund that has about 32, 33 million kuna per year. Many small non-profit, local media, local radio and television stations, including Internet portals, so electronic publications, as said in the law, would not actually have the possibility of normal work. Of these 32, 33 million per year 3% go to Internet portals or so on. by electronic publications, and by half the rest is shared between radio and television publishers. And that's a good model, because here, for example, 14 million kuna was assigned to radio broadcasters and non-profit media service providers. This is in line with Article 79. Otherwise, a large part of the radio station, radio publishers today, in fact, except for the great cities of Zagreb, is a special exception literally connects the end of the end, i.e. barely covering the costs of their regular activities, which will say that today and 10 years ago it is a big difference because compared to 2008 radio market research today is twice the income of marketing, and it is similar with local television. As far as Internet portals are concerned, they were assigned about 900 thousand kuna on average for these three years. So, every year about 900 thousand kuna, and they get the money, of course, they have to justify the same in accordance with the law and regulations. That money is therefore assigned to the content, we probably all know that. And now these 19 local television stations and 153 radio stations are putting up with it, so the Pluralism and diversity Fund bids its offer. The offer is by content, for example, the exercise of citizens' rights to public information, the promotion of cultural diversity, heritage, etc. And then it's worth according to the quality of these contents. And now, for example, we can often see from Internet portals that it's funded by the means of the Electronic Media Agency. And as a supervisory measure, the portal was expected to supply links, i.e. links to each published text and to keep these texts. And they all also file periodic reports during the year on the justice of that money. And it's also a pretty good model and there's nothing controversial about it. However, the following question is raised, for example, on a portal, is published in a category called the exercise of citizens' rights to public information. And now hypothetically in that text are some unobstructed cheerleaders or biased facts or so to say things. And then what happens? Does he have a sanction for that? There is, for example, an open insult by national, religious, second base, and then it is very clear that, in my personal opinion, it is quite clumsyly made and limited. But if it's a more subtle form, such as covert advertising, it can also be a more subtle and disguised model of planting or fake news. At that time, there is absolutely no possibility other than a private lawsuit or some evidence in court, according to the Penal Code, that is, those three articles that refer to acts against honor and respect, that is, shame, slander, etc. And then we have that supplement in the Penal Code that says if those works were committed via a computer network or system. And that's all on the subject. This is all about the subject, so we need to make sure that our media legislation is processed with today’s needs. And otherwise, when we talk about portals and media legislation in terms of the responsibility of the Agency for Electronic Media and the Council, then we must generally say what is also one of the fact that the situation is completely undefined and very, very fragmented, arranged. And when we talk about social networks and services and the Agency for Electronic Media enters into the context of these relations, then there is no such relationship. In fact, those in Croatia are not regulated at all. And that's where we cry out for the necessary changes, any sort of arrangement, because right now we really don't have anything. Otherwise, experts can say about electronic media and about the internet area that it is one maze area. And at the same time, it's all connected, and apparently nothing is connected. And these are a number of policy areas and actors that are hard to connect, so there is a job of such bodies as the Agency for Electronic Media and other bodies, which is why this cooperation is important, so it is important to praise what the president of the Electronic Media Agency Mr. Hajduk said, cooperation within... and other bodies where they are also active within the European Commission, because we ourselves cannot regulate anything, especially with such a law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we can talk about some aspects that are correlationd, but that's the same thing, what I said, that we need new shoes, because these are too tight. In order not to be too broadly instructed now, which is important to say, that regulators in the EU, they have the possibility of a degree of monetary punishment, and we would actually be there, what happened in Croatia, the withdrawal of concessions for hate speech, would be an exception, not a rule. But we act within our existing capabilities. I'm also going to single out just two more things about the work of the council in the past few years, and maybe they're a subject that needs to be particularly highlighted. There have been several judgments of power against decisions of the concession agency for certain concession areas. And we heard on the one hand that there's a drop in interest in concessions, especially radios, given the poor financial situation, given, otherwise we have 153 radio stations, more than Germany, and it's hard to maintain them. And on the other hand, we have a big fight for certain concession areas that are marketingly interesting, especially around large urban areas. And now we need to see in what way, best to clarify these council decisions that it doesn't happen that three judicial decisions are also going to become some kind of case in the media and that the agency itself is in the media again, which really has no reason to be, because I believe in their decision that it has been made completely professionally. Secondly, we know the limitations of the law and whatever the same, in my personal opinion, should also be seen, those violation provisions on the Law on Electronic Media, when the Council made a decision, which it could have made, but for one big television, when you do, you must make 50,000 kn is a minimum penalty. From 50,000 to 500,000 under the Law on Electronic Media. And now you bring a fine of £50,000 and what should we do? If the penalty should be greater, then it must go to the criminal court, therefore, the Council or, respectively, the Agency must refer this to the offenders. And then what happens? In the Criminal Court, it goes out of date, it's the most common case or even a mistrial, all stoning, like, corners. the solution is not satisfactory, and I believe that the Law on Electronic Media should be brought into line with these breaking legal provisions and the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Justice. And so we still have that issue of illicit concentration and how regulated it is in a proper way. But here, if I didn't go wide, I'd stop there, the conclusion would certainly be that the Assembly should deal with these issues of media legislation and regulation more often, because we are also the competent authority, and secondly, some facts would be more likely to be understood earlier, how important this area is, in fact, quality regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75521	We have one replica, dear colleague Glavasevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75522	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, we regularly come to this debate to a high degree of agreement on these topics. Several points in your debate were very interesting and I will look only at the one concerning the protection of minors from various types of promiscation, propaganda, etc. So the rule you mentioned, it certainly is a good one, it's a good step forward, but I don't think he's actually inadequate in this form. If we look only at the level of occurrence and it can regulate and it's actually somewhat on the trail and what Mr. Hajduk was saying, on some classic media like television, there's still as much regulation as it is good. However, you have no way of protecting minors, having as a parent, from, for example, protecting minors. on YouTube they watch video, in which the only thing a person does, is recorded opening different packagings of products with cartoon characters. The children, in fact, from me, are completely unrecognizable reasons, but they're looking at huge numbers. It's the experience of many parents, I'm saying this now as someone who has two small children, so she can say it firsthand. But actually, there's a need to have fun and not just have fun, but we're seriously dealing with this subject, because we saw how the Internet was actually the main medium, the main tool of radicalization in terrorism issues, this is now, just a very lower statement, no. But it really is necessary to discuss, to find new modes of regulation and to protect our children, above all our children from all the content that they can seriously harm.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75523	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75524	Thank you, well-respected President, dear colleague Glavasevic, as I said, the Agency for Electronic Media, on the one hand for electronic publications, i.e. Internet portals, on the other hand for radio and television publishers. But the entire Electronic Media Act applies only in 4 articles to electronic publications. And it's real, it's easy to conclude that it's not enough and of course it's not enough. But what's interesting and I mentioned it, we actually social networks and services, so here we can say that it belongs to Facebook Twitter, YouTube, SnapChat as well, and even others, we don't regulate at all. And now we know that since January, the so-called so-called power has been in Germany. A very strict law for the control of social networks and precisely the purpose of that law when it was passed, it was said that it should end the hate speech. Now, he's opened up many polemics as adequately as it is in that way, because I think if I remember correctly that I read that if within 24 hours he doesn't report such content, he doesn't remove the content that this natural or legal person can punish up to 50 million euros for every single case, I think I remember well. And this is their Law on Network Control and they will oversee Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Snapchat, Google, Instagram even the Russian version of Facebook and now, of course, that we need to go in changing laws and of course we need to be the Agency for Electronic Media, but also the Ministry of Culture, but also the Ministry of Culture, and we need to regulate this area. But no regulation can prevent children from seeing something that is available at home. I think that, after all, parents have to step up their surveillance and raise awareness of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75525	Thank you. We're going to a second debate, A Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75526	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Honored director of the agency with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I liked about the task of putting forward on behalf of the Most Club my views on these three reports in fact for three years' work reports. It's about very important reports not only that the media interpret the reality that's happening to us, but that they're creating this reality. So given the importance of this topic and not only its significance but also its sensitivity, I'm going to be quite sterile in this part of it, so I'm going to simply state the position of the Most Club as it's prepared. Therefore, the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media submitted a Work Report for 2014, 2015 and 2016. The description reports on the work are relatively detailed and well explained and we see the Agency's efforts to make the reports clear and understandable. The financial reports should contain more information on employee salaries and reasons relating to the growth of staff salary expenditure. The Council imposed sanctions, in particular under Article 12. The law on electronic media under which the audio and audio visual media services are not allowed to encourage, favour and promote hatred or discrimination based on race or ethnicity or colour of skin, sex, language, religion, political or other beliefs, national or social origin or spread anti-Semitism and xenophobia, ideas of fascist, nationalist, communist and other totalitarian regimes. We call on the Agency or the Council to continue to consistently monitor the implementation of Article 12 so that all totalitarianisms are marked unacceptable in audio and audio visual media services and we suggest that the following reports include this article in more detail. We welcome the Agency's work in imposing sanctions on incorrect advertising and not identifying sponsorships, sponsoring information programmes and overcoming the allowed duration of advertising as well as giving and monitoring concession obligations. The report shows that individual providers of medical services have difficulties in their own production of services and lack of local information. We believe that legislative changes should go towards supporting such media in smaller local communities with objective difficulties in meeting existing legal obligations. We welcome the Agency's work in protecting minors, and we suggest special monitoring of all media when it comes to the rights and interests of the child. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The e-media law says that no information is allowed to reveal the identity of a child until the 18th year of life involved in any form of violence, regardless of whether a witness, victim or perpetrator has tried or committed suicide, or to present details of the child’s family relationships and private life. We are witnessing almost daily delivery of data on children in the media, often in a sensational way, and sanctions imposed by agencies or councils do not clearly reach out to media service providers. We draw attention to the fact that the work of the agency and the council should also be directed at curbing false news and online misinformation, as well as on the reporting of media service providers about the dangers of such content for the democratic development of Croatia. Part of their work agencies and councils devote to media descriptors which we particularly welcome because this is the best way and prevention of all forms of socially unacceptable behavior, such as the speech of hatred in the media and the spread of non-democratic, often violent methods of action. We also point out the problem of disseminating advertising from editorially designed content and the impact of advertising in children's programmes, which the agency tried to influence by adopting specific rules for radio advertising, the rules on the separation of radio advertising from the editorial content that took effect on 1 March 2013 and by monitoring ads in children's shows. HRT has thrown the promotional content out of the children's programme, and we believe that such an example should be followed by other national television houses. We ask that the following report also analyse the achievements of the Regulation on the protection of minors in electronic media from 2015 and recommendations for the protection of minors and the safe use of electronic media by the Council in 2016. The Agency and the Council have made a certain effort to improve HRT's work and have sought the evidence of the supervisory board both in financial operations and in monitoring the programme's commitments. For the first and second Croatian Radio programme in 20916, based on one weekly analysis, derogations were established for each of the two channels, with one deviation of 17% on the Croatian Radio and two 49% on the programme. On both channels, there was a lack of content in the category of other information content. In some years, we see a lack of programme for children and young people, and I remind you that we do not have a plan to restructure HRT for 2018. Article 33 The law on electronic media of the state administration body as well as legal persons in the bulk of the Republic of Croatia owes 15% of the annual amount intended for the promotion of their services or activities to spend on advertising in audio visual or radio programmes of regional and local broadcasters of television or radio. We see from the report that he is just fulfilling his obligations to the publishers, and a stable law guaranteeing income is their independence from local policy. The amendments to the Electronic Media Act should be more detailed in order to ensure stable financing of local media. The report also included a review of spending from the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of electronic media, which we welcome, but we propose a more detailed and separate report on the spending of funds with results achieved during the funded period. Finally, the report notes that during 2015 co-operation with the Ministry of Culture focused primarily on participation in the work of working groups related to media policy making, on making remarks and proposals on working materials for discussion in the media policy of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. What exactly is going on with the media policy in Croatia? Why is that taboo theme? Why are we still waiting for the culture ministry's competition for the non-profit media? How it is possible to announce a number of new media laws without the national strategic document coming into public consultation yet. At the same time, media content providers have financial difficulties as visible from the Council's report, and we have the means to promote media pluralism and we need to use both national and European funds for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75527	We have two replicas. He's a colleague of Glavasevic's again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75528	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Sagar, I will look back again just a little bit and give you support for what you said about the obligation of other televisions to also control the amount of advertisements in programs intended for children. This is especially important on those televisions that are intended exclusively for children. For example, there are several such RTL cubes, and so there are, where there are actually very, very long advertising blocks, although this rule that we mentioned several times says very clearly that these programs should not contain targeted, or commercial content aimed at children or their parents encourage them to buy some products. It really is a case here, there's a lot of it and it's taking a long time. And I honestly think there's a really big need to pay attention to that. So, and also if he could do it HRT can make others. I think it's important to talk to all the actors in that case. So, I don't think it's good to just do it by cutting off, but we need to talk to all the people involved in this story, so also with those who are advertised and with the agencies. It's not a simple thing. But here, I think there really is a need in the interest of some general good, so here I think that part of our debate is very well pointed out.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75529	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75530	Thank you, Mr. President. Very short. My fellow Glavasevic, thank you for this observation. What we should emphasize when we talk about advertising, this is now my personal opinion, advertising always distorts reality, and that's the essence of advertising. You know when you have a commercial, when it says a formula thicker than liquid. Well, that doesn't mean anything, but it sounds good. But if these ads are aimed at children, then it's a big danger, because adults can and should know things. However, children cannot know and then if it's a distorted commercial going towards children it's extremely dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75531	We're going to another replica, a respected colleague of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75532	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleague Sagar, you've opened several boxing issues but I'm just going to reflect on something that might be more controversial. This is therefore punishment, i.e. sanctioning the sponsorship of covert advertising, etc. As I said very limited under the Law on Electronic Media, and rarely when a television that has a national concession is found in concerns because they got a sentence because the first time there's a punishment there's this Infringement Court that I said it looks like. And secondly, for one television, it means several tens of thousands of kunas, which means a reminder, a reminder, and so on. But what my colleague Glavasevic has pollomised hate speech, what are the sanctions for some television if it proves itself, the Council proves that he uses hate speech. By 2009, there was one situation under the Law on Electronic Media, when there was a double possibility of punishment, so fines from 100,000 to million kuna as I recall and there was the possibility of permanent or temporary confiscation of concession. After 2009 or those amendments to the Law of 2013 only exist, the possibility of fines being abolished and there remains only one article of the law that says temporary or permanent confiscation of concessions, although it is different in the EU, remains the only possibility of monetary penalties for radio and television in case, for example, the constitutional order, national security or something like that is violated. So by amending the 2013 law, we cut our own options and brought ourselves into this situation where we are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75533	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75534	So very briefly. Dear colleagues, you also mentioned in your discussion in replicas later, so I agree with you that the legal frameworks should be changed so that we have more tools. And what I think is much more dangerous when we talk about electronic media is you and mentioned it are various networks, social networks, the Internet, there we have a terrible, terrible amount of hate speech where people are offended especially by those comments. In fact, people don't even have measures anymore. I don't know if, I didn't follow it if there's any obligation for every portal to have its own administrator that removes but it's not done at all. It's just such a level of hate. What amazes you when young people ask, they actually say they don't see that level of hate. That's what's most dangerous when tolerance to that hate speech gets too big.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75535	Thank you. We're going to the next debate. A SDP representative club, two MPs. The first is the respected colleague Glavasevic, followed by fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75536	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, colleagues Stazic and I will share the time we have to discuss on behalf of the club. Somehow on the trail and what she said and colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, this can be discussed in two ways. On the one hand, we can discuss these sort of formal things that are such as financial reports, etc. and we can discuss and it seems to me that most of the debate is actually going in this direction, on something, on the issues that the reading of this report encourages. I will briefly deal with this first aspect, and then my colleague Stazic, on behalf of our club, will talk about something that we think is actually a matter of real content that we want to focus on. On some other issues, I will certainly speak in my individual debate, I believe that fellow Stazic will also touch other aspects in his. And that's how I think we're actually going to have an adequate conversation about this subject today. Our Club of Representatives of the SDP of Croatia, therefore, will support these reports, along with the fences that we have and which we have carried out and in the case of the HINA report. So, we feel that it is not, and I put it on the Media Committee, we do not feel that there is a need for fundamentally to take note of these older reports if we do not find any objections in them. We've already talked about these things here, and I won't be stuck on them for long and the same argument as last time. So, the fact and as a colleague from the HDZ Club said, we also have objective circumstances, which we can blame for the fact that these reports have not already been discussed and adopted, but we still don't need to share a pack with the council and the agency, but we need to share ourselves, which we haven't done so yet. We believe that all reports should be supported, not just knowledge. Here, with what I said, so business was neat, we think there are some substantive things, but related to the future of work and the future of regulation, this matter that needs to be talked about, but, for starters, fellow Stazic are now allowed to open that topic, and then we will continue with individual discussions.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75537	Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75538	The Honorable President of the Council and the Agency, State Secretary, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So, since it was founded, it has been established with one very clear intention, to act without political pressure, to be an independent body that controls electronic media. And in this respect, it grants concessions, makes contracts, gives permission to broadcast on the Internet, shares funds from the fund at regional level and imposes sanctions. In that sense, this council for electronic media should actually be the Constitutional Court for all publishers of electronic media, they are the Constitution. And what the council makes, what decision it makes, it's for the publishers of the Constitution. The Constitution does not understand it as our president of the Academy of Science and Arts, who claims that the Ustasha greeting for home is ready, unconstitutional, unless it celebrates and glorifys the uprising. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. So in the reporting period, the council brought in one sanction, which on 3 days took away the concession from one television publisher from Zagreb because of the obvious hate speech. It was the mildest sanction the council could come up with, took away the concession for three days. But then perhaps the most embarrassing thing happened in Croatian history, the march that took place in front of the famous tent, the Council for Electronic Media and then the President of the Council, Mrs Mirjana Rakić, who, as a highly educated woman with his biography, actually personified the top of professional ethics. And that 5,000-year procession for home-ready combatants was the drowning of abusive policies against women who the primitive group wants to implement with all means. So that there would be no confusion about what kind of a group of defenders were involved, they introduced themselves. On that road they sang Ustasha songs and cried out for a home ready, to know exactly who they were. There were two intellectual and moral gnomes, which were handed to Mrs. Rakic by the Chetnik forest. Now I don't know if they took it from the Adriatic, which they robbed and destroyed or got it, they borrowed it from their Chetnic colleagues, who were selling gasoline and oil in the war. That group was actually a typical one... group. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And even though they left at noon, they spent their crystal night there, they broke all the windows of common sense, intelligence, morality, and honesty. That was too scary to watch. It was actually a collective rape. I'm saying all this why? Not to remind all of us of this painful event, a terrible event, a humiliating event for this country, but to actually address the president and members of the council. Dear Mr. Hajduk, don't be afraid, it was terrible, so go from 5,000 people to an apart lady, who will remain remembered as the highlight of journalism in Croatia, when all of them are forgotten when none of them will know their names or last names anymore, she will remain as a lighthouse. Do not be afraid to set an example for you to act as former President, Mrs. Rakic. Stop that flood of primitives, stop that flood of hate, stop that flood... as it spreads in the media today. We're talking about drug abuse here today, about stopping dog abuse, so just watch the fact that a proven cocaine dealer is running some kind of television show. How does this affect our youth, our children? What kind of message is that it's even possible that someone who's a cocaine dealer might appear in public space. If you want to take this as a formal application, consider it. This would be absolutely unacceptable in a civilized country, I doubt anything like that could happen in Germany, I doubt it. So show courage, show dignity as Mrs Mirjana Rakic has shown, regardless of all the provocations, regardless of all the threats, no matter how many thousands of warriors are coming after you. I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75539	We have two replicas, I can see that a colleague named Glavasevic has appeared, but so far we have not had a situation where you are exhibiting on behalf of and proposing, and then you are still replicating. I don't think he can. We haven't had that yet. Let's go now, dear colleague Irena Petyevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75540	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Stazic. If we access the media professionally without ideological connotations, and I approach them, then we condemn that goal. But otherwise it's not good to abuse an event for political purposes in any way. Such manipulations often occur from all sides of the political spectrum. And when a tear gas was thrown at a gay club, then they're pointing fingers at all those who don't exactly belong to the left-wing political spectrum, so they're potential suspects. And in this case, you know very well that I have reacted greatly, and I would react that today because I believe that this is absolutely coming out of the context of what we as a democratic society, pluralist society should allow. At that time, I too was troubled by the participation of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Tepeš, as Vice-President of the Parliament, who is protesting against the legitimate decision of the Agency for Electronic Media, as when the Court makes a decision and someone goes to the judge and threatens him, etc. So if you represent the institution of the Croatian Parliament and do not respect other institutions then it is at least discriminatory because you can go there as a natural person, but if you go on behalf of the institution then it is not allowed. On the other hand, these protesters, I don't take anything for evil because these people are simply being manipulated because they don't have to know the Law on Electronic Media, they don't know it, and they don't know it's an article in 86, and it had to be the way it was because the other agency couldn't even make a decision like it did, I remember in my first session when I was sitting on the Electronic Media Agency, TV TV was also taken from them for that pornographic movie, and nobody ever protested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75541	Thank you. Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75542	First, I am infinitely glad to hear that someone in HDZ is speaking as you say and condemning that protest as it happened. It wasn't a protest against the agency, it was just some occasion, it was one march across the streets of Zagreb to show what kind of people they were, to be publicly declared. And Mrs. Rakic and the agency were easy targets. Someone a little tighter, they probably wouldn't dare move. I agree that there is no need to abuse an event for political purposes completely with you, and that is exactly what they have done, so an event of a legitimate council decision they have abused for political purposes. It was a political march, it was not a protest, a justified protest against something that would be understood, a civil protest, no, it was a political fascist march.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75543	Let's go to another replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75544	Thank you, President of the Parliament. I'm a fellow intern. I can no longer be surprised by your speeches in the House and the assembly on the matter of Ustashas, warriors and such words as you say here for our defenders who have defended this country who have their own opinions on everything. I don't see anywhere in Croatia Ustasha only see when you call it and similar to you. I am now asking you a question from here, where is the find of the cowardly cross from Split under your authority, under your minister of police, done, filmed, placed on the people to embarrass the Croatian state? You never mentioned that, and your minister attacked why he didn't find out. This is what the Croatian people want to discover, to see who did it and who the Ustashas are that you keep mentioning in your speeches. This country will not be as you wish, as you intend to make this state. For you, all the defenders of the Croatian state are the Ustasha who have stopped to defend this country. Of course, there are some mistakes among these people. Mirjana Rakic, I respect her as a journalist, I personally respect her, and that woman certainly deserves a good attitude from the Croatian public towards her. We're not asking where Dujmovic is, who got him off the TV? You never mentioned that, which you should mention too. Why? But someone mentioned him. You and your speeches that speak in this House, I don't think they're fit for today's time, and I think it's time you once said that the Ustasha in Croatia is gone. And "For Home Ready" can be talked about, it's a greeting before it was the first, second world war. So that and that is, our historians need to come in... Not what he did, I don't think that's right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75545	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75546	First of all, I never thought at all, and let's face it, if all the defenders were Ustasha, that would be notorious nonsense. And I hate to talk nonsense. You don't see Ustasha. Now, look, if someone wears a Ustasha hat, if they sing Ustasha songs, if they shout Ustasha greetings, if they speak like Ustasha, then I guess it's Ustasha, what I can do to him. I don't like it there, and one of the characteristics of a group like that, let's say they don't let other people talk, so it throws like you do. You probably belong to that group, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75547	Okay. Come on, please, let's calm our passions down, let's get back to the subject, let's go now. It's the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75548	Mr. President, respected representatives of the Ministry of Culture, respected colleagues and colleagues. There aren't many of us, but as if there are, there's enough of us for this topic that's important. It doesn't matter as important as the first hour, two o'clock in the morning for breaks, it's not important for the first three hours to spend on replicas, but it's important, as well as most of the points that go through this Assembly. And now that someone asks me what to do, because I'm talking about the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to say what I'm saying on the board and what I'm saying, I need to change it until we change. As for the question whose government, regardless of whose government it was, left or right or centrist, is ours. There is no Stazic's government, there is no Pupović government, and there is no government from a colleague of Petrijevcans. It's our government, the government of this country, whether I agree with it or disagree. After all these years and decades, I guess it's been a while since we started talking about it, and as far as the question is whether or not there's nothing, you have as much as you want in our capital and nobody bothers, because if they do, then whoever has the power would take them away. The people who greet that greeting were there and were on that march that was a disgrace to this city and a disgrace to our country for not finding an adequate response to that. I'm still not gonna talk. And from that and things have to start calling themselves their own name, in everything, and then in that. As regards the 2014 report, 2015 and 2016 reports, it is a shame that it is only coming now. But given the state of the agency, how long it took to change, how long it took to normalise, the dream was in the Parliament and society, so we could have a serious, as serious a discussion as it was, then I'm not surprised it wasn't. It is similar with a report by the state's attorney's office, similar to reports from a number of other key state institutions, which are several years late. And our mission to do this is to catch up and receive reports regularly and discuss them regularly. What I would like to say is that the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media are probably one of the tolerance institutions that exist in our country when media phenomena and media phenomena were transmitted. Given the situation in our media, especially electronic media, the number of sanctions of different species should be much higher than it is. The number of measures should be much higher than it is. And if I could blame those who ran the council and the agency over the past few years, then I could say they were too mild. As harsh as they were to them, they were too mild for the appearances of rudeness, the greatest possible roughness in the media space, which I will talk about later. But such an assessment, like any other, needs to be reasoned to some extent and I will try to argue it in two directions. The first direction is, there is the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Information. And there is no doubt that it is necessary to see whether media practices and media houses are fully in line with the law. Most often in a series of places and a series of cases aren't. A series of hatreds coming from individual media sites, not from the forum, but from key shows, which serve nothing but satanization and the spread of hatred towards individuals, groups and ideas. We're still making enemies in this country, where they're not there. Ethics, religious, and other groups are still being stigmatized, and individuals are still trying to make targets, the most different groups, who are eager to be shown by someone who should be a verbal or non-verbal target. Should the council work more on that? You should. Should this Parliament talk more about it? You should. Should we look at what TV shows or individual radios look like? Well, you should. Someone will say, there are people here who are obsessed with communism and then every little bit, every day they see some communists and communism. And why don't you see what it looks like, what the Big Brother shows look like and what humiliation our citizens and people who should be watching are experiencing. What kind of money laundering has nothing to do with freedom of public information. For that, of course, it's easy to get a concession, of course it's easy to get a positive assessment, and for some kind of critical opinion, we can't do that anymore. That's already problematic. That's where you put yourself in the category of national or national enemies. But, producing shows like Big Brother, love is in the country or I don't know what else, no matter how much, let the people enjoy it. When it comes to the Pluralism Fund, a good deal of these funds goes to radio and television stations that have the most god-awful minority parts of the programme. And many of them actually make it work. So I can have such an economic component. And do they really contribute to the development of minority tolerance and political culture and improving the position of minorities? I'm not sure. There are those who do, but there are those who don't. It would not surprise me at all that those who, those television houses that have the production of the Bujica hate also have funds from the Pluralism Fund media and also help, for example. to improve the perception of Serbs in Croatia or the Czech Republic or Hungarians or Italians. Why don't the Council and the Agency do that? Why doesn't the Ministry take it more seriously? Why wouldn't the Media Committee, the Media and Information Committee take it more seriously? It's my question. Why spend money on something he shouldn't be meant for? Why in the end line, that's my question, why in the extreme line in Croatia we have fewer minority programs than we had until '91. For years and harder to maintain minority media than it was then. With the exception of Rijeka and Istria, if you look, you'll see things aren't going well. Spending the money of the Pluralism Media Fund, in such a way, that it is given to the media houses that have minority issues only have that they will release and justify that means, while not allowing minority media to form and not give space to form minority electronic media, I do not understand and I cannot accept it. A few attempts were to get concessions for radio, minority or at least mixed and failed, but we will not stop in this regard and we will devote ourselves to much more analytical things than we have done so far. Finally, fellow Stazic spoke of hate speech. This is our problem, a serious problem, a serious problem in different kinds, whether it's about the content of the emissions, whether it's about discussions that take place under texts or below the content of the emissions. There's no adequate control over that. We welcome the fact from the Council 2016 launched the web portal "Medijskaprestnost.hr" that is good. It is very good that she has made recommendations for the protection of minors and the safe use of electronic media, I also welcome. And in co-operation with UNICEF, the media campaign "Let's Choose What We're Viewing" has continued, but isn't there a law under which the council and the agency should act? If the contents are inappropriate, should the Council and the Agency not act in this regard? And don't take it all down... children and parents. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one question. The second question is, why don't we deal with what the situation is when it comes to the production of hate speech in the media space? Why don't we dedicate a special thematic session of the Media Committee? Why not pass a special law if necessary? Or have we improved the existing law? What am I saying that for? Because many people are the object of hate speech in this country. That many groups are the object of hate speech in this country. Which many ideas and movements are the object of hate speech. I say hate speech, I'm not talking about ridicule. I'm not talking about criticism, I'm not talking about satanizing, I'm talking about satanizing, and that's something else. But that doesn't concern us, it's important that we have our five minutes in the first two hours of the Parliament meeting. It's important that we spend the first four hours on replicas with one club and the promoter, and the rest of the day we're going to discuss it about the way we're discussing today. There were different periods, but we didn't have this kind of culture of debate. Looks like something from the media has been transferred to this Parliament. And if it is transferred to the Parliament, and from Parliament to the general public and to the general culture of communication, then let us not be surprised at what both parties and the Parliament become superfluous.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75549	Thank you, fellow Pupovac. We've got three replicas. Here's my colleague, Irene Petrievcan.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75550	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm going to have to share with you a frustration that is completely justified. On the one hand, it concerns the big brotherization of society and the raising of new generations of people without their attitudes, as Musil would say, and we've been stuck in that dried-up mud to say Janko Polić Kamov. We're not doing well because the DORH has to be a hate speech instead of the Media Committee and instead of us working here more often, we're all responsible for producing hate speech in one way or another. I don't think you're responsible or yourself, but we know who's responsible and how it's produced it, but today we've really gone deep into that hate speech and we should really deal with it at a few levels, which we'd say level, because it's soaring discord and hate and it's generalizing and calling without proof that it's so much more out of the truth than lying. And so the goal is just some hysteria, the goal is to create a new hatred, the goal is ultimately to create new violence, but this agenda doesn't correspond to a politician or to a person or a scientist, it generally doesn't suit a normal person because it's the most cunning agenda, it actually corresponds to those who are perfidious, who don't even want to work, who don't want to be responsible, who don't want to give society responsibility and meaning, who want sense, want chaos, and then in this chaos, they work best. I think neither you nor I, but most of the MPs don't belong to that society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75551	Answer, here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not say as my esteemed colleague Stazic that I am glad to hear that someone on the right is speaking as you say because I know from my experience, from my political work that you are not the only one in the HDZ benches, that you are not the only one in the benches of the right cent that you have an opinion that is civilized and at the same time concerned about the processes that we have in our country. That we have different worlds, so be it, it's always been and always will be. With one or another who will come in future. What I'd like to say is that we represent the legislator and we're discussing the regulator's report. There's no closer connection and the regulator's report the way we got it, unfortunately it's still not complete. I'll support this report, both of you and the other and the third, but he doesn't show the right picture and the right state of things. It's not analytical enough and it's not critical enough. Because if he were analytical enough and critical enough, then you'd see what we're talking about here. But you can't see that. And for that reason, we have a responsibility to invite regulatory agencies to do their job in accordance with the law. Not because they're as well paid as we are, but because it's a moral imperative that imposes the needs of today's and every future generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75553	Thank you. Next up is colleague Bojan Glavasevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament and welcome to the debate. Dear colleague Pupovac, I would refer to that part of your debate in which you were actually talking about how many opportunities were missed to act. I think that this aspect is one of the key to understanding what's been going on for the last few years. First you need to understand that this escalation of hate speech is actually a thought, although the stage has been set long ago, but relatively recent phenomenon. So it happened with the expansion of social networks and it starts in 2008. Facebook came in 2008. So from then to today in a period of less than 10 years, we have an incredible escalation of hate speech passed on to social networks. There have been failures absolutely, the first failure lies on the academic community which was not in Croatia, which we both know well as linguists, failed to understand nor understand the phenomena that occur nor follow them, nor adequately get to know them and process them so that that other instance, which is politics, could do something about it. So politics also missed the opportunity when we met with these phenomena in the term of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we also missed the understanding of what was happening and we failed to respond to it. And finally, of course, that then the regulator failed to act adequately because we also can't expect from the regulator, from the bodies that should be regulated that if they were all earlier, all of those earlier instances, if they failed, if they failed to act that last, although they should, even though it should be that democratic fuse, succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75555	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75556	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Glavasevic, the Internet is a modern technological communication medium that is neutral to evil as some of the other technologies we have acquired have developed neutral to evil until we take them into our own hands. So evil is not in them, but in us. What happened was, of course, the fact that the public and private spheres began to be mixed thanks to this media and that media culture, and then you can do from the toilets what only the authorized number of people who had been licensed, educated, paid and who had access to the written text or to the electronic media as it had worked and as it was television. In the meantime, that changed. So we need to create a new culture. New culture can be created by us from here. New culture is created by people who care for the common good and these are people in politics, people in education, people in science. And regulators, there's no doubt that they're part of our country's general institutionalization obligation. It is not a consequence of the internet, it is a consequence of our country's institutional weakness, all regulators or most regulators and those who need to take care of the preservation of legality and sanctioning illegality, unfortunately do not recognise what they need to recognize and that is the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75557	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75558	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Pupovac, perhaps it should be pointed out that if there is a current Hemingway saying "Whose bell rings", then it is when it comes to hate. All those who resort to that weapon will be returned to them eventually. That's how it is with hate, whether it's on a religious, national, political basis. Often, it is directed towards the weaker, the minorities, which is kind of natural. Today, however, we see that it is no longer a rule to strike those who direct it. What bothers me most in this society is hypocrisy. I'll say it on one particular example. One of our colleagues who stands up for ratification of the Istanbul Convention has been attacked greatly on social networks by people who represent themselves to Christians, Catholics, who, from that position, attack and insult her and do so on the worst possible terms. Croatians by profession, Catholics by profession, so in your case it may also be Orthodox by profession or Serbs by profession, it is not good and I think there is the whole problem. Society develops, must cultivate its own with respect for others and different ones and hate occurs when it is not understood differently. And one more thing, you mentioned in two shows, Big Brothers and another show, I don't know, but we have on HRT. I'll mention it. It's a Potter quiz. That's... In evening terms, it's what families see. One of the hunters, so I'm always ashamed when he starts commenting on something because a decent man is ashamed of himself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This can't happen on HRT. He's paid for it there and has to behave according to some codes. Who should react to that, I don't know, but you're right when you mention these shows that are really on the verge of culture, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75559	Thank you. Answer, here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75560	Dearest colleague, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I happen to know which colleague we're talking about. And all those who send her this kind of message to an exceptional doctor, who did it at the time of the war, as she says to us "on the front line" as part of the defence population, surely conscientious Christian women and certainly responsible and moral citizens, send those who, as you say, have no other business but to spread hate speech across social networks. Unfortunately, we have one of those. Most of the decent world doesn't have time for that. Most decent worlds have no time to look at classical media, let alone spend hours on social networks because they must fight for themselves, for their family, for their children. There are some who can do it. I have some caste hatemaker who then can't wait for someone to show up to stick the label to, like in this case, that dear colleague of ours, who I want all the best, especially because she's going through her own life experience that's not pleasant. But what do they care? They don't think about other people's lives. They don't think about who's behind that name or who's behind those words. Rather, they use the words they use irresponsiblely and cruelly, as they would have used something else if they could.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75561	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. Next up, counterpart Goran Beus is in front of the GLAS and HUS Representatives Club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75562	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear proposing representatives, as regards the GLAS and HSU clubs, we will support these reports. They are not disputed to us in technical and content terms. These reports cover one three-year period behind us, which is formally correct in terms of consolidation, agencies, financial operations, setting up different procedures, but that is not enough for us. We have a whole series of objections to the work of the Council and to the behaviour of the Agency. In this report, among other things, complains that there is no adequate legal framework in which the Council or the Agency can act in a way that does part of their work.../The speaker speaks Latin./... morally, by vision, by mission, institution. I wonder what the Ministry of Culture is doing? The Ministry of Culture this report in '14, '15. He's had two years on the table. Why has the Minister of Culture not already proposed that the Law be amended in a way that enables the Council to step up more functionally since the beginning of its term of office. But to be clear, it could have been different if there was a good will. I'll give you an example. It cost a lot, though. It cost a lot of the Council’s head, or body. It is about the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests and Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic came here every year complaining that the existing legal framework is not enough to allow the Committee to function functionally because, therefore, that the diapazone is therefore a measure which is on its disposition in some way inadequate in the real state of things, that sanctions are imposed on those who violate the rules, that they are actually in some symbolic frameworks. But what did the Committee do? The Commission built a new system by building good practice, issuing opinions, attitudes. When was the last time you heard the Council of Electronic Media say anything about anything? Do we have any examples of any statement? Here, colleague Pupovac, about some of the documents they made. But is that enough? Why are there no public record of situations that are questionable? An equivalent example in January 2016 when 5000 people came and broke into the building of the Council is a defining point after which you should have twisted the skin upside down. And what did you do? The members of the Council got stuck, stuck, hid in their offices and weren't there for the president. Where were you the moment the Bujanec lectured the Council president? Why weren't you there for her? Why were these people allowed into the building in the first place? Why wasn't the police alarmed at the same time that someone was trying to break into the building? It's a Council action and it's based on the law. It does not have to be a law that regulates the functioning of electronic media, there is a Constitution and the laws of this country that are important and valid for all, and then for the Council. That was the moment you were supposed to preserve your institution's autonomy, and you missed it. You left Mrs. Rakic in the wind, retired, after that event the Council practically no longer gave us any public authority. But no matter what, you will celebrate your grand anniversary, the famous 10-year anniversary at the Emerald Hall of the Hotel Esplanade. I resent that, I find that extremely inappropriate. The guests from Europe will come. You told us on the Committee that representatives of all EU regulatory authorities are coming, that the Council and the work of the Agency are being taken as an example of what other countries want to follow. In a formal sense, yes, I believe it. But you haven't actually done anything about the efficiency. So you didn't stop a single commentary of hate speech. You didn't sanction anyone for anything. The television that was formally punished for 3 days is even stronger today than it has ever been. It's where they broadcast whatever they want. And not just that. What did you do when the Ministry of Culture put a foot in the door and said: no more money for non-profit media? Three years in a row, 972 thousand kunas are distributed to 14 and 15 users, respectively, and you watch as the independent media, the non-profit media in the Republic of Croatia, is being strengthened. How come it didn't occur to you to change the rule that you're making, which is currently decided that 4% of the pluralism fund is going to be allocated to, say, 15% so that you can save independent media, save media dealing with those topics that the mainstream media aren't dealing with? Isn't that one of the topics you need to focus on? Do you not consider the future of the development of electronic media in the Republic of Croatia in this context? I know, the media strategy is missing, it is in the power of the Ministry of Culture, the Government or Parliament, but I hope that you will be active stakeholders in the construction or development of that media strategy. Have you received any analysis so far, have you delivered your opinions to the Ministry of Culture which should be included? That's what I'm curious about. What are council members doing? To be clear, these are high-paying places in the state administration. The Council must first and foremost guard its cheek, and then fulfill its mission, point to all possible negativity. If he is already unable to punish, he has the right to make special statements and to oppose negative phenomena, negative cases, and to promote positive and cases so-called. positive practices, but you obviously don't want to blame anyone. You are currently the only focus of having great communication with other regulators in Europe, traveling, you are very, very great that Montenegrins are thrilled that it works in the Republic, that you are mentoring someone, that you are now hosting them 28th or 27th as long as they will already be guests, which will be held here by an important gathering which we will not know anything about, nor is it important for the functioning of electronic media in Croatia. I'm sorry, but someone had to tell you that. I call on the Ministry of Culture to deal with a little bit of that fact that there is a space that is not defined well, that there are standards to be perfected, that it should step into that space and courageously define penalties that can be given to those who spread hate speech, to give up that alibi, that hate speech is defined only when an attack can be identified without doubt as part of a minority, as if a political rival is not part of a minority, if not in power. Avoid situations that embarrass you, which is when the former president of the Republic comes to you and reports that he's being called public to his murder, you smile in his face and you say that's not a hate speech. You have thus offended the institution of the president of the state, I hope you are aware of that. No one should be defended in the sense of sacred cows, no one should be built monuments, but this is about something called an institution. If you stand by those who go against the institutions, who tear them down from the street by keeping quiet, which you will shut up in your rooms while your president is torn apart and while publicly disgraced, you will do nothing but contribute to the general misery of morality and the failure of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75563	I thank my colleague Goran Beus. We have one replica, a colleague giving up the replica. Thank you. We're moving on. The colleagues of Kresha Beljak do not have on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS Zero, which means that we are now continuing the individual debate. The first is in an individual debate by counterpart Bojan Glavasevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75564	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I decided to dedicate my individual discussion to this phenomenon that has been mentioned many times today, which is hate speech. I talk about this phenomenon in this context mainly from the perspective of the legal profession, but I want to talk about it from the perspective of linguistics and sociology because I think it is a prerequisite that the legal profession with this phenomenon can be adequately dealt with. First of all, I think it's important, although it's not that the audience is very big, but it doesn't matter, I think it's important to say and explain why hate speech is powerful. Because speech and language are generally the super power of human beings in the same way, for example, a cat can jump nine times its height from a place, in the same way that dolphins have an echo location so human beings have this incredible ability to use electromagnetic waves that produce something that is an abstract idea created in their minds, transfer to the mind of another human being, so that and the ability of metaphorical thinking is what enabled human beings to master the planet. And when we talk about hate speech, we have to be aware that speech itself is an incredibly powerful tool. I would like to quote here a late Croatian linguist and Semitist Dubravko Škiljan who was undoubtedly one of the linguistics and in many other professions in which his opus could be classified as a genius, and he's been adept at many of the phenomena we're dealing with today. I'll read you a part of one of his interviews from around 2006, he died in 2007, and we mentioned that Facebook in one of the earlier replicas I mentioned that Facebook phenomenon from 2008 is further. Regarding hate speech Dubravko Škiljan says: “As the context changes, hate speech modes change. He is now less direct, less obvious, and thus more effective, perhaps more dangerous. My thesis is that hate speech is not at all dangerous when it is an expression of sincere hatred, for it is a normal feeling that a person in certain situations must show whether he wants to be a complete human being. There is danger when the primary group initiates hate speech without any emotion or secondary speakers, so those to whom they address are directed towards hating someone. These secondary speakers then feel induced hatred, speak words of others, and thus reproduce hatred. There are a whole series of strategic procedures that make it seem, from defining others as sources of evil and enemies, to their complete exclusion and these ways in literature are quite well processed. Today we no doubt meet with a hate speech. It seems that one part of the hate speech objects remained unchanged, and part of it changed, partly and in line with the general direction of American global policy. The hate speech is generally in the interest of those who have power, power, or at least claim to own it. To use the example: at a time when hate speech was as clearly present as Nazi Germany, every real German, not only claimed to have a friend of the Jews, while they still existed in the neighborhood, but also communicated with him, his hatred was therefore placed on another collective level, we meet the same today. So what Skiljan is telling us and what we need to get out of this, so that hate speech is now a means of intervening, although Skiljan has kind of been anticipating what we call new media today, but he was right when he says that hate speech is less direct, less obvious, that it is both more effective and more dangerous, and I think that this operational definition of hate speech is very useful as primary and secondary. And I think that we should deal with it as politicians and politicians, that we can deal with these primary speakers, because they, as Skiljan says, are those who have power or power or predicate to it. In that sense, it is also important to mention, or to elaborate a little on this thesis that Squilan later speaks of. So who are the targets of hate speech? In something called the ritual model of communication, so we have on one side the hate speech is directed at, so the target, we have other recipients of hate speech, these are the ones that are being radicalized. We had a chance to hear about it. In our national security reports, we've done a lot of radicalizing Islamist online, and we've talked about no Ustashas here. About the hate speech targets, that's something a fellow Pupovac talked about, we can say they're marked, they're attributed to negative attributes, they're used to putting a target on their backs with it. One model that was referred to as a possible kind of regulation of that is the famous of this NetzDG. who mentioned counterpart Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic and in which the government announced among other things that it might model social network regulation. However, this NnetzDG. He's met with a lot of criticism right now, right now. There is still no case law that can give us some kind of feedback, so that legitimate cycle itself is not over. However, criticism comes to the law in Germany from almost all circles, universally. It's not just about lefts and rights or some kind of value division, because it has problems, regulators, or regulators, but social networks often take down the contents that are satires, there are unclear criteria to which it seems. One of the comments that I found very convenient about this Law in the Croatian media space is about this: Orwell's 1984 was not written as a recipe, was it? So when we are, and this has been announced, and that is why I refer to it, when we do this law of some kind of Croatian that should help remove hate speech from social networks, we must really be very careful not to preserve freedom of speech on the one hand and on the other hand to clearly detect and operate on the definition of hate speech so as not to violate freedom of speech. And now we come to what often appears as an argument when, especially from those who use hate speech in a situation where it actually starts to act against hate speech. You're disrupting our freedom of speech. But freedom of speech is not freedom of hate speech, and everyone's freedom reaches that extent, to those limits when it starts to violate other people's freedom. In that sense, I think that's what I said to the board in my own time. I think it's of the utmost importance that we define what hate speech is. There are many Croatian authors who have done this, I was glad to hear about Benedek as well. But it's not just a legal profession that can give an input, I mean, I would repeat what I said at the beginning: it's actually much more important to hear from other professions that deal primarily with language or sociologists who deal with society, or language in the use of society, which is what we should pay attention to, how we can define things, how we can operate them and how we can actually do it today – tomorrow regulate and fight hate speech. Because in the last ten years, the phenomenon has been cut down, not only by Croatia, but also by Europe, and by bogs and beyond. So he made incredible radicalization possible, he incredibly made it possible to connect radicals and thus enabled them to be louder than what would actually be proportionate to their relationship in society. This disproportionality in representation is what causes the problem. Because we're saying these are some loud little groups in society all the time, so if they are, then we need to ensure that they're proportionally represented, no one's saying they shouldn't be heard from everyone, but at the time when such groups that are very harmful, which are actually, I'm going to say again Popper's paradox of tolerance, that they're actually working on destroying democracy, that they're taking advantage of the freedom that was elected in history, that they would destroy that same freedom for others, and that's where we have to act, and that's where your role is. This debate was very brief, but I urge you not to stay on it. We're all here, we're all open to dialogue, and when the time comes for the laws to change, I believe you'll have good associates in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75565	Thank you. One replica of my colleague Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75566	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Glavasevic. Your debate is professional and you used those professional terms, but let me, since this is the political body of the Croatian Parliament, allow me to try to spread it a little laity myself, and also speak in favor of what you said. It's no problem that I guess when a man has a feeling of hate, is it's natural for people when out of fear, out of self-defense, you get a feeling from something, but it goes quickly because you're not strong enough to react differently. However, why it is important to talk about hate speech in the context of this report because precisely electronic media and media of all kinds can encourage hate, it is dangerous. It's not hate itself. It's hate. It's hate. I once had, I'm sorry there's no Pupovac colleagues here, I've replicated to him once, he said the next monument of Nikola Tesla was destroyed just because he was a Serb. I was replicating him then, I said, no monument of Nikola Tesla was destroyed because at a certain point the fool had explosives and put it there, but that fool was instigated by someone to hate. Like the one he wrote in the post office, this is Serbia, and someone down there wrote to him, no fool, this is the post office. Someone encourages hate and what the council and the agency should do to suppress those who encourage hatred, especially young people, and it is very, very dangerous. Academic Dusan Bilandic once said, "A person is very hard to freak out, a people for an hour" and exactly what happened during fascism is a reminder for us and that is a lesson for us. There's a whole nation being stegmatized, it's said because the Jews are successful, so you're bad in the economic sense, and you can see what caused it. These things are not simple, and they need serious access. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75567	Thank you. Answer me, mate, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75568	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, colleague Sagar, for the replica. So as you've noticed, I was kind of at the beginning and I said, given the audience, I let myself have my own dictionary and my debate be in one academic tone, but what you said and it was the point of my debate. At first, I was talking about this one classification of primary and secondary hate speech, and that is exactly what it is to encourage hatred of what you're talking about. My second observation would only be that in general any kind of social violence is very important to understand that it does not happen as often as it can sometimes act, exclusively frantically both for a moment and spontaneously. It's not there. Violence happens in society when a few things come together, one of them is a particular organization, so you must have an organisational structure that will not organise some action and coordinate. You have a certain ideology that sort of defines the objective of action and you have to have a network of relationships that allow that group that will eventually commit violence to project some kind of micro solidarity to some larger level, and then terrible things happen. No violence from the ordinary street gang to Srebrenica occurs spontaneously and without how I would say the very strong factors I listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75569	Next up is colleague Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75570	Thank you, dear Vice President. In November 2017, I was on the Days of Electronic Media, there as Vice-President of the Media Committee. Ha and the writing of those who reported from those Days of Electronic Media caused a scandal. I caused a scandal there, why? Because I dared defend my colleague, Alexander Stankovic, who had been brutally attacked by one of the hundreds of thousands of defense organizations a few days before. I defended the right of journalists to ask a question, namely Stankovic on the show asked his counterpart a question, and he was attacked by these defence associations because he dared to ask the question. He asked if it was possible that in the Homeland War there were elements of civil war. The question prompted these to brutally attack him to ask him to be fired, to lose his job, to be punished anyway. That attack on a journalist actually went on without the right reaction of your council, without the right reaction and the Ministry of Culture. Namely, he did not experience protection, he did not experience protection in his journalistic work. Before that attack that is, which is the hate speech that we're talking about so much here. I know that not only the Council for Electronic Media can be responsible for preventing hate speech, because we have become one society, a sick society, which it tolerates, which allows hate speech not only in the media, not only on the networks, not only on the portals, but, said Pupovac on the graphite, on the facades that no one removes, no one. They've become something normal, we don't even notice them anymore. At the soccer games, it's interesting that there's nothing at the sword tournaments, at water polo games only the gruesome hate speech, and that the commentator doesn't even notice it, that at least it doesn't fence or interrupt the transmission. Because if television were to stop transmissions, and then watch, football clubs would think about how to sanction their viewers that spread that hate speech. I regularly follow the history of Chanel, it's a very good station television, there's no day, but there's literally no one day, that they don't show at least one documentary about Nazism. Why are they doing this? It's their programming policy. Why? To act edifyingly, to warn young generations, what evil it was. And how far? How did it come to be? How did the evil of Nazism come to be? Out of hate speech, out of hate speech, as one lunatic began to interpret the Germans, that Jews, who were less than 1% in Germany, threatened the entire German people. And that the Jews in Ukraine are threatening the Germans in Germany. And what he's saying, what Bilandzic said, is that, one man is having a hard time going crazy, but the people, very, very easy. We don't have television, which would make them, they don't have to produce them. Why, maybe it's better not to make them, because then one of those 100,000 defense organizations would attack them if they were biased, let them import it from Europe, but I guess they're not biased. They perform their shows very high-quality, really very high-quality. Why, to start fighting, because we all have to, it's the social evil that's become, that we're slowly getting used to. A colleague, Sagar, says, did not bring down Tesla's monument because he was a Serb, but because the fool had dynamite. Okay, but just because that monument hasn't been returned all these years, that means accepting that dynamite. That means okay, you did a good job setting up the dynamite. And now they didn't take that monument down because Tesla invented electricity, no. And because the monument was of poor quality, that's not why. It was brought down by dynamite, because Tesla was a Serb, as many monuments of Vojna Bakic were torn down, invaluable values, a sculptor, but a world voice, which we won't have for a long time. But he was also a Serb to his misfortune and to the misfortune of us who had lost those sculptures of his. And which the Ministry of Culture does not perform, it does not perform. But that means that the Ministry of Culture is sending a message to the public, forgive the secretary of state, but that's right, it's good that they're down and it's better that they're down and we'll never rebuild them. Why? Well, because they were made by a Serb. Look, it's encouraging hate speech. And if we're thinking about fighting it, we need to all fight together, you in the government, us in the Parliament, the Council for Electronic Media as much as it can, no one can do everything by themselves. But if the hate speech comes upon a public conviction and if it starts to exceed the daily public conviction, then maybe we have a chance, we might have a chance to contain it. Without these joint efforts it will be hard to go and this little time I have left, fellow Richembergh said something about it, he made profit media. Mr. Hasanbegovic, our colleague who was rarely here with us, when he was minister, has abolished the funding of non-profit media. The minister who inherited it hasn't changed anything. The government is a different composition, but the non-profit media have run out of money, 32 million kuna, which is about the amount available to the Council for Electronic Media. Well, when we had such a minister, who abolished it. When we already have a minister who won't change it, who obviously agrees with his predecessor, that non-profit media should not exist, they shouldn't exist, so we won't even finance them. So why doesn't the Council of Electronic Media recognize the necessity of their funding, because they're the ones who are actually expanding the plurality of information. Well, you don't have to be afraid of everything, you don't have to be afraid, that out of these 32 million kunas, you recognize these non-profit media, you recognize a different new situation that we've found ourselves in, so these are the same media, now they're out of support. Well, then let's go as the Council of Electronic Media, to change that, when they don't want the Ministry. Don't be afraid, as I told you, while I spoke for the party. Some good things in this society we can only do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75571	Thank you, two replicas first is a colleague of Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75572	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stazić in the first part of your debate, you said that in time you caused a scandal by defending Alexander Stankovic, although I cannot say that it surprises me, you are known as an unfortunate man, especially yours, those who resent your political engagement and attitudes. Let's seriously joke aside, actually, you know what the real problem is, you touched it earlier in your debate. The real problem is that your defense of Alexander Stankovic has caused a scandal, and the other person you mentioned, also in your debate earlier, does not cause it. You mentioned one person that was a drug dealer, however, I wanted to correct you at the time, but President of the Parliament did not give you, so you should be precise in guidance. You were talking about the person who was a convicted drug dealer who paid prostitute services with cocaine. But you have to be very specific when you're talking about people like that, otherwise you're saying the facts. So, such a person, as you said in your discussion, is not only a scandal that this person is running TV shows, but is still considered a moral authority. So I think it's a scandal and I think it's the job of regulators, so that's things like that, not just because of the nature of such people's actions. They're part of the splinter, but rehab shows. Anyway, just for the content. Because the content of what such a person is saying is entirely on the trail of that person's past actions and it's not scandalous to anyone but it seems to be unfortunate people.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75573	Answer. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75574	Now, who attacked me there for defending Stankovic? There were publishers, among other things, publishers of those media owned by units of local self-government, which means that in every local self-government, someone has authority, some political group. And that means they're directly owned by a political group. They disagreed with my views and with Stankovic, they also thought as these defenders that Stankovic should be shot and then attacked me. Which brings us back, when we get back to the beginning, to the question of whether we should even allow units of local self-government, which means political groups to be media owners. Because these media are necessarily politically colored, on one side or the other, I don't care. I don't care which one. I was attacked there by political opponents who were publishers there, so the attack was logical and expected because we disagreed. When you talk about a convicted drug dealer, then, I agree with you here, he may be on the inauguration of the president, there and belongs to that society that gathered there, but should not appear in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75575	Thank you. Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75576	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Stazic, I have answered the line to explain. Of course the motive was that Nikola Tesla was a Serb. I just wanted to, maybe at that point I didn't explain it well enough, it's always a problem in encouraging hate, and it comes upon fertile soil when it reaches knowledge. When there are crazy people who don't know enough and who are prone to manipulation. Well, one man, I don't know if you can believe it, one of them went to my place to get a fuse during the war because he heard Tesla was a Serb, so he doesn't want Serbian electricity. The man did it because she's uneducated enough to accept it on another. And that is why it is important to talk about it today and through the Council because the Council, agencies, all institutions, the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the education system must educate the system to know more about it. One time, my daughter came from the church and cried. I asked her: what happened? The priest who was no longer there in my parish was looking at her when he said that and said that MPs were killing unborn children, that I don't know, the miracles of God work. I was already a representative at the Croatian Parliament at the time. That was after the law on assisted insemination was passed. The priest’s end was a man who at that time was on a church committee who exclusively assisted insemination came to children, having children. And these are things that are unacceptable to society. All those acting, especially those acting responsible, must be prevented, not encouraged by hate speech themselves. And that then leads to these awkward situations and situations that are a little short for people to go to the lynch. You mentioned Mrs Mirjana Rakic. You know how little was missing? These things are serious. It was a little short for people to go to the lynch. Just somebody grabs a rope and yells, "Let's go."
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75577	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75578	When it comes to the destruction of monuments, I can understand that one moment like this. There's a war, there's a fool, so they're not all educated in war. And I can understand that in frustration someone makes such a culture to bring down some kind of monument. I can understand that. What I can't understand is the inaction of politics to make it right. I can't understand that because that's what I've been explaining to you, because that's the fact that there's no going back to the old one, that there's no erasure of that crime, that's a confirmation of the crime. That's, that means saying I agree with that. Otherwise, I expect that if they don't return that monument, that this association of those who were looking for an attack on Stankovic, that they suggest we stop paying for electricity because Tesla invented it. What are we gonna pay for this?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75579	I would like to thank my colleague Stazić for his reply to the replica, and we will conclude the debate on the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media of the Electronic Media Agency for 2014, 2015 and 2016, and we will vote when the conditions are met. That's what we end up with today's points. The session continues tomorrow at 9.30 minutes with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. number 306. Thank you very much. Session adjourned at 1626 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-03-13-0.u75580	The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2014, the applicant is the Director of the Agency for Electronic Media and the Council for Electronic Media, the debate is concluded. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2014. Please vote. I find that most of the votes, 89 for, one abstention and 4 votes against, have come to the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency working body. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue our work and I propose to conduct a united discussion on the following two points, these are the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance Companies. Are we okay with that? If we are, thank you. Now we'll see about the breaks first. A fellow Glasnović.
