ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u78388	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. In this one overall environment, I'm going to say ideological politicization, doctoring, and so on and political, I want to highlight one extremely important topic that is rooted, I'm going to say to a whole series of social problems that we face every day. So I'm going to try and talk about the law-making process in this high house. When something's wrong, I like to really get away from myself and explain why it's wrong. Well, it would be logical to start by telling ourselves that it would simply be good, it would be expected, ultimately, to follow the acts that we have brought ourselves, when it comes to the adoption of regulations and what our obligation is in some way as a commitment from our EU membership. At this point I do not want to talk about the standard bone model at all, I do not want to talk about the application of the NSP test when certain regulations are passed, but I will point out, just to see how alarming this problem is, some conclusions of the government from 2016. Only 17.3% of the legal proposals refer to planned legislative proposals. So we're only 17.3% singing according to plan. 67.9 regulations, laws, etc. is out of line, ad hoc method, haste procedure, the consequence is clear. So regulatory instability, lack of quality of legislation, but what is most fascinating, only 5.7% of the legal acts, only 5.7% of the previous impact assessment and final. So we're laying down regulations, we don't even know how these regulations, or laws, are going to affect our lives. In those conclusions, even the Constitutional Court, as it is, said that the phenomenon concerns, the phenomenon of the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure without any previous impact assessment, and that we are not talking about a final impact assessment. Watch this sentence, which was spoken by the Constitutional Court, violates the very essence of parliamentaryism, that procedure. So, we ourselves go around the institutions that we created, which we attributed to work, believe it's extremely worrying, and we just can't move on. I will skip because this government has actually adopted all the documents to be adopted on this issue, from the strategy, to the necessary laws, the law on the assessment of the impact of the regulations, the regulation on the implementation of the impact assessment process, the impact assessment strategy itself, the action plan itself should have been adopted by the end of March of this year, but the real life has been denied and those regulations, i.e. something else. 28 laws were only passed in full procedure, after the second reading, and watch out for 21 legal regulations, here we talk about some data, back 50 days, and our regulation, by which we stick here, was passed by emergency procedure, 21 only this year. They all have an implicit impact on our budget, and we don't have any impact assessment, I say this to the colleagues of the opposition, who also dare to give legislative proposals, by emergency procedure, without explanation, why, by emergency procedure, let's give the people an opportunity, so we open public debates, by the documents we propose, we make concrete conclusions, we include an interested professional public, if we want quality regulations, which will define our life. In this case, I want to draw attention, to get serious about this problem, it's in the whole series, that is, I'll dare say about all the problems we're facing, we've turned this High House into a place where it washes, verifys outside institutional policy. Let's not let that happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u78389	And the last one will be an independent representative, the respected representative of Vlaho Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u78390	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In recent weeks, I have been intensively speaking to farmers of southern Croatia, the Neretva valley, then Slavonia and northern Croatia. I have no intention of really accusing anyone or pointing fingers, but I simply want to convey the voice and bitterness of those who do and who want to continue. I would like to stress that the situation is literally alarming but I would also like to point out that agriculture is exactly where we can get to the added value quickly. Status is next. 99% of our homeland is a rural area, 80.9% of our population lives in that rural area right now. Check this out, the ratio of imports and exports in 2017 is 975m euros in favour of imports. We import more than 30% of the total need for fresh beef. We lose 5% of our cows on a continuous basis. Imports of all meat types compared to 2012 have doubled. All areas are really affected but Slavonia is in an alarming situation because people only rely on agricultural production and do not have other sources of income, mostly. So far, we've literally devastated the entire food industry, killing meat and milk production. There is no base of seed and fruit material, we try as hard as possible to tax all segments of agricultural production. In other words, it's us with our laws that we pass without any perspective in the future that we create a problem for these people who really want to work and who have a place to work. Let me remind you, we have recently voted in favour of several laws that define relations in agriculture, so let's say the OPG Act. The effects of this law are nothing, why? So there are rules waiting, regulations that will define the implementation of that law. I don't even want to mention it at all. The law prohibiting unfair commercial practices in the food supply chain is whether or not. The conclusion is also that manufacturers do not feel any more protected under this law, that the withdrawal and return of goods on the load of the producer is continued, 10% of the write-offs are taken off at the beginning, the bianko contracts stating the quantity of the product at the price of 0.1 kuna without any guarantee of sales are signed. And finally, this law on famous agricultural land, here I'm just going to say that in the area of the Neretva Valley the law doesn't apply at all. In the same area, there are still many cases of racketeering of literal racketeering, the country is rented to third parties who own their own country and then the same country they have rented to others at significantly higher prices. In Slavonia, some leaders refuse to conduct land distribution at all, announce the place watch out for this, pension to rest in order to keep those properties they have and agriculture would suddenly become the primary activity of those who are currently in possession and would also benefit from pensions. So the cattlemen will never be able to meet the tender conditions set for them. The possibility of renting land for 25 years with an extension of another 25 years is announced, which means if we make a mistake renting land, we're going to do a lot of damage to those people who really want to work. That's why I don't complain, but I want to make a concrete suggestion, and what I'm about to say isn't mine, I didn't make it up, that's what people from the field say who really want to do, keep fighting with life. So unfortunately, we only have 143, 241 cows in milk production, cows that are on the masculine every day, which are in the control and reproduction system. We need to distribute the country from millions of hectares available to each cow has one hectare of land, and in this way we will enable the survival of that production, we will preserve the existing production of milk and we will be able to renovate the production of young calves that we are now importing over 100,000 from Romania, for example. It is necessary to implement this land allocation in this way and to appeal to and to the Minister of Resort, I appeal to all of us to make our contribution that, in this particular segment of life example, it will enable such distribution of the country because it will enable the survival of these people who are working at this time and what is possible to preserve, and then we can figure out which direction to go with further agricultural production. Please, it's high time we joined here with some new life-real policy in everything and in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u78391	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85813	The first point is: - Proposal for a Hunting Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 339 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, based on Article 339 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would now like to ask the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation. Dear Zeljko Kraljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85814	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. The proposal of the Hunting Law regulates hunting and game management. The game represents well of interest for the Republic of Croatia, has its own personal protection, and the establishment of a hunting ground of interest is for the Republic of Croatia. The proposal of the Hunting Act aims to ensure sustainable management of hunting and game, on the other hand to remove the difficulties and administrative barriers observed in the application of the applicable Hunting Act. In particular, in the part relating to the precision of the legal provisions which recognise private ownership when establishing private hunting grounds, the removal of the difficulty of sustainability of agricultural production in aquaculture, the precise regulatory arrangement related to the problems of game damage and the full harmonisation of the normative provisions relating to concession rights with the provisions of the roof law governing concessions. The aim of this Act is to ensure the sustainable management of the population of game and habitats in a manner and in a range that permanently promotes the vitality of the population itself, the production capacity of habitats and biodiversity, and fills economic, tourist, recreational functions, and functions to protect and preserve biodiversity and ecological balances of natural habitats, game and wild fauna and flora. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU in 2013 gave rise to the need for correction and coordination, thereby taking over the provisions of EU secondary rights of the Republic of Croatia: Council Directive 9243 of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of wild fauna and flora habitats, Directive 2009/14-147 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009 on the conservation of wild birds. In order to reconcile difficulties in the sustainability of agricultural production in aquaculture. This Proposal for a Law on the list of species considered savages in the Republic of Croatia introduces a species of large crow. The subject species in the Republic of Croatia does not have protected status because it is not a species that is at risk, and the declaration of their protection is not prescribed by EU regulations or an international agreement by the Republic of Croatia. The primary reason for the inclusion of species in the list of game animals is the extremely large damage that a large crow does to the economic ponds and fish stocks on open water, which is due to the question of sustainability of agricultural production in freshwater aquaculture. The inclusion of a large crow on the list of savages, the treatment of species would be exclusively within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture, thus shortening the time limit necessary for the necessary treatment of the prevention of significant economic damages. The proposed legal solution creates assumptions for the introduction of more order into hunting, starting with the very management of hunting sites in the construction, protection, hunting and traffic of game and its parts and the use of hunting weapons themselves. Until the arrangement of the relationship between... And a real money donor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This proposal for a Law all newly concluded lease agreements and concessions of hunting rights were for better legal protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia by an administrative contract of regulated legal relations, and in the normative part of the proposal for a law governing the area in question was in line with the provisions of the laws governing the general administrative procedure as well as compliance with the provisions of the roof law governing concessions. In today's management of hunting and game animals, wildlife damage has been highlighted as one of the biggest obstacles to the sustainability of hunting in the Republic of Croatia. This Proposal for a Law for facilitates and fully implements the Law in the part of the prevention of game damage and the damage from gamers in agricultural cultures of local, regional, regional self-government units extends part of the current competences, i.e. enables the implementation of part of hunting operations which are subject to the applicable Law in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thus, the proposal for a Hunting Law is established on their territorial areas, regardless of whether it is a state, joint or private hunting ground, a unit of regional or regional self-government, ensures the possibility. A solution to ban hunting for certain species of game, in order to protect its numerous conditions, for the protection of agricultural crops, the occurrence of chemical, biological and radiological pollution. Allow the comparison of sanitary and reduction projectiles and the extermination of game animals other than birds from areas where the safety of persons or property is at risk or on which, under other regulations, no islands, airports or the like may dwell. To make a solution to reduce the number of species of game species other than birds that threaten health, livestock, other game, other animal species or do other damage if the measures to prevent game damage are not sufficiently successful or would not be economically justified. To make a solution to reduce the number of birds in art. 8 of this law, to prevent serious damage to ponds and waters. The proposed legal solution would speed up the way in which measures necessary to prevent damage would be implemented, as the units of the area, i.e. regional self-government, depending on the situations in place, would have the opportunity to see faster and to take the measures necessary to address the damage done both by game and game. As is one of the new measures, which extends part of jurisdiction in units of regional, regional self-government, a new way of approving hunting for economic grounds, for state, private and common fisheries. That's the way it is. In its 45th proposal, the law stipulates that an authority in state and private hunting grounds, in hunting for an economic basis, brings the ministry to approval, while hunting by a master in the common hunting grounds, is subject to the approval by the competent authority of the county, i.e. Mayor, or City of Zagreb, in whose area the hunting ground is established. The legislator faced the past with an increased interest in the private owner of the forest, the return of the seized property and larger agricultural areas, as well as the need for a more effective way to prevent the damages that have occurred... Article 14 of the Law provides for the establishment of private hunting grounds on land owned by private and natural persons, if the area of one owner is not less than 500 hectares of continuous land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also prescribed to establish private hunting grounds, by combining land with multiple owners, if each of the owners owns an area of less than 500 hectares, and if they together form an uninterrupted whole. The proposed legal solution, which provides for the establishment of a private hunting ground on the surfaces of at least 500 hectares, and which has fallen less than the least prescribed area of the established state, i.e., common hunting grounds, has been allowed for the owner of the agricultural areas, where private hunting grounds have been stopped, to protect the protection and exorcise the protection and exorcise and hunt themselves, directly thereby affecting the reduction of damage to their own agricultural areas. That solution would reduce judicial disputes, relate to the compensation of the damages in question, as well as the objections to the insufficient involvement of hunters in the prevention of the damages themselves. It has already been pointed out that the damages from game, on agricultural cultures, as well as damages caused by the impact of a vehicle on game, over the past few years, have been a major problem of sustainability for hunting in the Republic of Croatia. The current legal arrangements, the issue in question did not address the problem satisfactorily, led to the inequality of court practices, which in most cases resulted in long-term court proceedings, uncertain outcomes, but, as a rule, with a final outcome, mostly to the damages of hunting rights holders. The bill, in particular, sets out the issue, with the aim of clearer regulation of the rights and obligations of all entities, in order to avoid so far unequal case-law as far as possible. Thus, the draft law, the measures and actions required to take damages are required, the obligation of timely notification by the authorising officer to cause damage, the obligation, to enable the authorising officer to implement measures to prevent damages, as well as the obligations of the liens, to carry out appropriate measures and to ensure safeguards at the request of the damages, and the corresponding deadlines, which are the damages, i.e. the poachers, shall be reserved in mutual communication, and shall be linked to the prevention of the damage suffered and the right to compensate for damages themselves, and that is the period of 7 days from the date of the damage, the response of the poachers within 7 days, as well as the deadlines in which they propose to agree on the same amount of damage and the way of compensation. With regard to the damages suffered by the attack on game vehicles, the bill defines 2 possible situations, related to the direct responsibility of the driver and the right to hunt, for the damage incurred on game and on the vehicle, in such a way that the prescribed liability of the driver for the damage to the game and for the damage to the vehicle, provided that it managed the vehicle contrary to the rules governing the safety of road traffic, while the liability of the driver is prescribed in the event that the damage is established as a result of the execution of the hunt itself. It is also prescribed by the draft law that in all other situations, which are not governed by this law, the provisions of the law governing mandatory relations will apply. The legislator shall, with the aim of avoiding the conduct of long-term court proceedings, proposed changes in the allocation of funds collected in concession fees and the law of hunting law in accordance with Article 2. The 30th Bill of Law provides for the necessary financial resources for the insurance of hunting grounds and the financing of the same and the possibility which, according to the provisions of the applicable hunting law, has been made possible to the units of regional, regional self-government, which have not generally benefited from the current period of validity of the law. Thus, according to the provisions of the bill, funds were collected from the lease and concession of rights allocated on the principle that 10% of the funding goes to landowners, 30% of the funds in the state budget, 10% of the funds at the expense of the county and the City of Zagreb and 50% in the state budget at the expense of the Ministry of Agriculture to finance the measures provided for in these laws and acts adopted on the basis of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85815	I thank the Secretary of State. We have seven replicas. The first is the esteemed colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85816	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. This law goes in the right direction, it will try to solve between the rest and the eternal problem of the gap between hunters and the hunting of farmers and private forest owners in relation to the damage. However, I am interested in the way in which you imagined it should be fenced, effectively fenced your good and exorcise the savage, so it is the job of the injured because otherwise they will not have the right to compensation for the damage. First of all, I don't think it's his job, and second of all, I don't think they have any knowledge or tools for that job. And the third most important question I ask, where and in which and in whose space if we have all the particles, will the game dwell? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85817	Would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85818	I thank you for asking. Effectively fence the hunting grounds in practice means that all landowners in the area or on areas bordering the forest or from places where the game has more numbers as a habitat are placed on electric shepherds or other mechanical obstacles to prevent the game from entering the agricultural areas from entering that part of the habitat and thereby causing significant damage. So in this part of building the hunting grounds themselves does not mean that each owner fences four sides of his particles but simply places where migration of gamers is increased that enter from their habitats into agricultural areas in some way physical fences. But it's not just physical obstacles or building up of electric shepherds or other obstacles, we're going to try harder to use repellents or chemical biological, ecological means to prevent game from causing significant damage on these surfaces and, in fact,... problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85819	Thank you. Let's move on, dear colleague Curaj, you're second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85820	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, Mr. Queen. Absolutely some things are to greet in your presentation. In fact, I think that hunting is economical, above all, and tourism potential, but what is happening in Slavonia is certainly something that I think this law will avoid, to a greater extent, which is practically the bankruptcy of associations or hunting organisations that manage hunting sites. In fact, because of the long-term interest procedures, due to the compensation of the damage, I think this takes more care of the sustainability of the hunting grounds and associations themselves, so that it is something more or less likely he has had the opportunity to meet the Malta not on the road that the danger is great, and not only for the damage but also for the life of the traffic participants and I think that in that direction it is good to go. It is also good that more powers are given to local self-government units, and the rest will be given in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85821	Thank you. Are you going to answer or not? Okay. We're going to the third line, dear colleague Liposchack.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85822	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. In the beginning, I would like to welcome all the efforts made by this legislative proposal as well as the promotion of hunting, but as a forester, I must refer to Article 81. A law that says no compensation for the damage that savages do in the woods and on forest land. Personally, I believe that this article may be too broadly or generally defined and that it might be useful to distinguish it a little more in detail, in particular I would like to place that emphasis on those areas of forest or forest land that are located in the restoration phase because they actually provide, are the basis for secret forest management. And so far, we have had the signing of agreements on mutual rights and obligations between the Croatian forests and the hunting rights authorities and many such situations could be predetermined or regulated. However, now Article 105, and that possibility is lifted, and that is why I appeal once again that if there is a possibility between the two readings that we can find a way to keep this regime of mutual relations, but that... compensation over those surfaces that are found in the renewal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85823	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85824	Thank you for asking. You noticed that, however, the current law did not regulate the area, but as you yourself pointed out, it was a contractual relationship between the hunting of the authorising officer and the owner himself, the forest manager. We believe that this is the best way for them to agree through a contractual relationship and thus protect the forest itself, without being too much of a burden and hunting authority, without being too much damage that they will suffer... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85825	Let's go to the fourth line, dear colleague of the coat of honor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85826	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State. Article 80(7) and (8) regulates the compensation for damages in the event of an accident of a vehicle on a game. You've said something about it, but it's not true that you've regulated all the situations. Only two situations are regulated by the subject articles or items. The first is the one that occurs in case the driver is guilty of a car accident because he did not comply with the rules, and the second is the situation in which there is no driver's fault, and the damage occurred during hunting in the area of the hunting grounds. However, you did not regulate situations where the damage occurs without the driver's guilt because he complied with traffic regulations, and the damage occurred at a time when no hunting took place. My question to you is who will compensate for the damage in that case? And one more thing, you're calling in the law of mandatory relations, but you've completely ignored the situation that's been going through for years, it's a question of driving on a game and the Law on the Roads of the 50th of that law on something different than what you said. Please respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85827	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85828	Here's a thank you for asking. Yes, it is certain that, in the draft bill that the Commission has drawn up and in the mutual harmonisation of the law itself with the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have really discussed all the necessary opportunities and scenarios when it can be determined that damage has occurred. But we believe that so far the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations and Judicial Practice have generally defined that gamer is a dangerous thing, and that contract law and property have been transferred to hunting by the authorisation officer. As a rule through court practice, the poachers would be responsible and at that time we would have to compensate for the damage itself, we only wanted to make it clearer by this law when the unquestionable responsibility of the poacher or the participant in the traffic itself and that in all other matters, by the Law on Mandatory Relations, courts are making their decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85829	Let's move on, dear colleague Sincic, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85830	Thank you, President of the Parliament. It is clear to me that because of the attack of savages on the vehicle, some hunting societies have major problems, some are even on the verge of bankruptcy, bankruptcy and that a large amount of money goes to such damages. You yourself said this class is the most common responsibility under the law of hunting societies, but your amendments to the law are not good. They now go to another extreme and transfer the burden to farmers. Croatian farmer, the average Croatian farmer is extremely small, poor, and he will not be able to have any knowledge or time or money to exorcise game, build or anything. I'm afraid this will be inconclusive.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85831	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85832	Thank you for asking. What is the meaning and purpose of this law, is to establish the responsibility, responsibility and owners of the agricultural area and the poachers that, in accordance with the regulation as provided for by this law, take measures and thus reduce the risk of the damage suffered on agricultural crops to a minimum and this can also mean sustainability of agricultural production itself and the sustainability of hunting in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85833	Let's go to the sixth line, dear colleague Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85834	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, it is simply not true that the great crow is not a protected species in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, you can't define it as a hunting species because it would be contrary to Article 7. The EU Wildbirds Directives you listed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This species is not listed in Annex 2. So, by doing so, a giant crow can't be a species of prey. It is clear and it is not disputed that a large crow is causing damage to the ponds, so we do not dispute it, but to define it as a species simply is not possible because it would be contrary to this European directive. I'll talk about it a little bit more in my individual discussion, but here's the clean one, this is the first reading, we have time to fix it, but it's just like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85835	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85836	This draft bill itself is in line with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and that way we've carefully checked these allegations, whether a great crow can be a hunting game. Getting an opinion from the Ministry of Environmental Protection is not prohibited from putting it on the game hunt list, we used it to reduce the damage to freshwater aquaculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85837	And the last replica, dear colleague Marco Vedligaj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85838	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Honorable Secretary of State. So from here on, your opening statement could be concluded in this way that it is actually a decentralisation of governance, for example, with hunting at Croatia level, I would disagree here, given that the units of local self-government are true, increased and the scope of jobs have greater responsibility. Unfortunately, they have been reduced significantly, in fact, by a centralized legal solution that favours poor management of natural goods. That this is how it actually shows and this is your solution that from now on insurance will be implemented as a ministry, thinks that it is not good since the intensity of the damage is different from the units of local self-government, in the area of the Republic of Croatia, but I wonder how you will do it and what intensity, do you have a certain cost-effectiveness study about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85839	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85840	We have not reduced income to regional self-government units, they have so far had 10% of the revenues themselves for the purpose of implementing the Hunting Law. We hold that all our counties, because they have so far implemented the law itself will qualityly implement this law in the interest of the poachers but also the users and owners of the areas themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85841	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, colleague Panenic, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85842	Thank you very much. A broad debate has been held on the Committee on Agriculture, ranging from a positive assessment, a levelling of the law to objections about non-constitutionalness. Since it was a large number of observations, part of the remarks, the participation of the Croatian Hunting Union, so here I consider it appropriate and to present the key points that were. It would primarily follow the points at which the observations were made, Article 6(6), in a way that would have prescribed that the fenced hunting grounds of the area were greater than 100 ha and not as proposed by the law were proposed by 1000 ha. In Article 8 suba, in a way that would be added after a brown bear by a grilled jumper, taking into account that it is a species of game that has been present for many years in the habitats of the Republic of Croatia. The same article under b, in a way to add mongoose after the formation, starting with the fact that this species of game was introduced to Croatian islands over 100 years ago and requires effective management of the same in order to prevent further damage. Article 9(1) is proposed to add the wording of "hunting associations and hunters from the provisions of the Law on Associations under which the Croatian Hunting Union is bound to allow membership in the Croatian Hunting Union to all hunters." It is also proposed to maintain the form of a applicable law regarding the provision of Article 3(f) concerning the procedure for establishing and amending the border of private hunting grounds. It is proposed to delete Article 18 of the Law on the grounds that it is not possible to restrict the rights of ownership without the consent of the owner of the forest. Article 21 proposes the need for a more detailed definition of the conditions for the lease of hunting rights. It is proposed to delete paragraph 2 of Article 23 which prescribes that the lease agreement is a hunting contract or a harmonisation of the draft law proposed, a way of adopting a solution relating to the exercise of the rights arising from the provisions of the Law with the administrative procedure. In paragraph 8 of Article 24 concerning the amendment of the lease agreement, hunting rights are proposed to adapt to avoid the possibility of legal uncertainty for the lessee. In Article 27(2), the word ‘sacona’ is proposed to add the text only in the event of non-compliance with the financial obligation and to protect the lessee who has duly implemented his financial obligations to the hunter. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is also proposed to delete paragraph 2, Article 35, which provides that the contract on the concession of the right to hunt is an administrative contract or coordination, a proposal for a law on the proposed way of adopting a solution relating to the exercise of the right arising from the provisions of the law with the administrative procedure. In Article 38(2) beyond the wording ‘sacona’, it is proposed to add text only in the event of non-compliance with financial obligations, also in the protection of concessionaires who meet their financial obligations to the hunter. The proposed amendment and coordination of the entire Chapter 4 of the hunting plan with the emerging situation, taking into account that the proposal for a law provides for a minimum area of 500 hectares and a large percentage of the total areas affected by Natura 2000, and proposed the adoption of hunting plans for the whole of the Republic of Croatia or for regions or for certain counties and the adoption of annual hunting plans, i.e. game hunting by the competent authority in accordance with those plans. It is also proposed to supplement Article 56 to define the right of poachers to remove dogs and cats moving against the provisions of paragraph 2, Article 56a with a view to protecting game and other animal species from direct damage and disease caused by abandoned dogs and cats in the hunting grounds. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The same is proposed for the reason it's a game that's hard to find, and in the event of finding it, it's urgent to move it from the hunting grounds. Article 2 of Article 66 provides for the prohibition of game hunting within a range of 300 metres from the border of the settlement in the valley and Prigorje 200 metres in mountainous and mountainous areas, it is necessary to reduce game migration to violence and better quality prevention of the damage and costs of the local community to implement the programme for the protection of game on non-hunted surfaces to 100 metres. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The same is proposed because in most EU Member States the prescribed age limit is between 14 and 16 years, as well as for hunting and traineeship education. It is also stated in accordance with the draft, proposals for the law on the acquisition and possession of weapons intended to reduce the age limit to 16 years for the purpose of education and education in hunting weapons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is proposed to supplement paragraphs 1, Article 78 in a way that would add to other damages to the property damages in the forest, forest and agricultural land. In paragraph 1, Article 77, which provides for measures to prevent game damage, it is proposed to prescribe and use protection products authorised in organic production with the use of chemical safeguards. Article 79, which provides for the prevention of damages in hunting sites, proposes to delete the obligation for the damage to the asset-building factor, as the same with a large number of small particles will be difficult to implement in the same area of the Republic of Croatia. It is also proposed to delete the paragraph 8 of Article 80 and to explain the same obligation of a legal person who manages roads on the set warning and monitoring of the situation through game statistics and which is the only real indication of the place where the warning signs should be set. Lastly, the proposed 5% of the value of agricultural production should be made clear above Article 81(1) that the proposed value of agricultural production does not apply to the total agricultural production of the harmful material but only to the parcel which has suffered from game damage. Further to this further discussion, the views that the bill must be withdrawn from the procedure because the provisions of the draft law are anti-constitutional and the implementation of the law will result in the illegal takeover of private property and bring into an unfavourable position of private forest owners. In addition, it was warned that the draft law is in conflict with the Law on Property and other real rights in the part in which the rights and obligations of the owner of private land are prescribed. This was manifested by the proposing representative, given that the debate was broad here I will also ask the Secretary of State, the Ministry to consider these remarks and to be apparent until the second reading. That law was proposed by the Committee by majority vote 6 for, 2 abstentions at the debate of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85843	I'm opening a debate now, and it's my first turn at IDS, PGS, and LRI's esteemed colleague, Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85844	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since, from April of this year, the long-standing problem of solving the damages from wildlife in transport should be as announced by the implementation and in a satisfactory way on the subject of the Hunting Act today on behalf of the club, the IDS Club, PGS and LRI, in this debate I will focus mostly on another long-term problem and this is solving the damage from game in agricultural cultures. This serious problem is shared by both businessmen and cattlemen and hunting societies. Given that I come from the 8th electoral unit, I will talk about the problem faced by hunting societies both in Istria and in the Primorje-Gorski County, and these are wild pigs whose numbers are growing uncontrollably, destroying agricultural cultures, attacking cattle, causing huge damages and financial losses to farmers and herdsmen, while the problem of solving the damage to the game of hunting societies is increasingly financial but also exhausting in other ways. I therefore point to this big and serious problem, I repeat, which farmers and cattlemen have, but also hunting societies, and our Club expects the proposer to propose a sustainable model that implies a quality and long-term solution by the second reading. Teachers of the given problem, in particular art. In 66, there is a ban on game hunting within a 300m band from the border of the settlement in the valley and prigorje, and 200m in mountain-mounted areas. In this debate, I must say that this will primarily be a direct attack on municipalities and cities, especially if on these surfaces they have to draw up a programme to protect savages, as well as predicting the payments of damages. What our Club expects from the promoters is that, in cooperation with other resolutions, the problem is once again seen. Our club suggests that it be 100 meters, but I also believe that it is necessary specifically in art. Six, dot. 14. unequivocally and clearly define the concept of the settlement and how to determine the belt from the edge of the settlement. Furthermore, on the identified problem of hunting, for example in Istria County, I must stress as a poor provision. 30th of this proposal, which reduces the assets of the moneyshare that are the income of local self-government regional units from the current 60 to 20%. In particular, this means reducing income from cca 760 thousand kuna to cca 240 thousand kuna per year, with all obligations still remaining, but according to this proposal, new ones are prescribed. The reduction of funds from hunting to counties will also mean a reduction of opportunities to finance development projects and hunting programmes, among which are the most significant ones related to reducing and preventing the damage to game in agriculture. Our Club proposes and asks that the counties be left with a total of 60% of the assets of the bounty, all for the reasons mentioned above. In view of all the above, it is our Club's view that hunting, as I said, is faced with a lot of problems which unfortunately, such a bill does not solve. I hope that the proposer will first and foremost look at the weight of these problems, accept our suggestions, and all to find a model and solution that will in a satisfactory way address the biggest problems that hunting in the Republic of Croatia is facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85845	We're going to another debate. On behalf of the Representatives of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA, dear colleague Ivan Vilibor Sinčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85846	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, as we know, today we have on the agenda a brand-new proposal for the Hunting Act. So here, comparing the old Law with the new Law, one of the main intensities that can be read is the transfer of responsibility primarily for damage to agricultural land from hunting societies to farmers or agricultural producers. I've heard of several examples that there's even been a bankruptcy of a hunting society due to the frequent damage that on agricultural land, which on vehicles. It simply could not be paid and, of course, the law follows bankruptcy. It should be said that this solution, which is offered here, is also offered to enable more favourable insurance to hunting societies and in this section, is simply that part of the burden is transferred to farmers. It's not a good model, it's not a sustainable model. I'm afraid there will be an increased decline of farmers who are already burdened enough already. But let's get back to the beginning. When you go through Croatian rural areas, it's not just the villages of Slavonia or Kordun, Banovina or Baranja, it's also Croatian islands, or the interior of the island, it's Lika, Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, and when you talk to older people they'll tell you clearly, here to where the forest is now, it used to be all lunch. And then you see the next 100 meters of young trees maybe this kind of pedal thick or less and some kind of scissors or scissors. So, once upon a time, a few decades ago, a lot more people lived in rural areas. While people lived there, they kept that space and made it impossible for the game to do what it wanted and how it wanted, which because of the process of moving from the village to the city, which because of the war, which because of these last waves of emigration, the rural spaces of the Republic of Croatia are empty. It's a very sad fact. However, this is the fact that as much as we try to ignore it and there is no simple development of life only in the area of the fauna, that there is a great abundance of animals, that there is a great increase in game, and then there is pressure on populated areas, that is, pressure on agricultural cultures, but as I said and the forests are spreading, which, in itself, further increases the area where game can be inhabited, and then by itself there are more savages, etc. As for wild boars that are farthest the most common problem, they say that during the war the feral pig was cut out with domestic pigs because there was a lot of cattle during the war that was left without owners, or abandoned, and today the problem has escalated. Namely, the domestic pig has a significantly higher number of young people than the wild pig has, and for now, the problem is not being monitored by the end. And that's the pressure coming out of the woods that's not being dealt with properly, it's not being dealt with properly. With these legal decisions, here is a clean comparison of this brand-new bill of yours with the old bill, in the old bill of law it is prescribed in Chapter 8 to prevent damages and damages, Article 76 is prescribed what must be done by a hunting authority, so that I do not read. Article 79 provides that the user has to do what is necessary, which is his right and his duty to prevent or prevent damage and Article 85 states that for the damage caused by the gamer, a regular local court is responsible in the area where the hunting site is established. So if there's no deal, the deal goes to court. Now in what position do you put those who have done damage, or not directly, but indirectly, in this bill, because savages still come from forests that are generally in concessions of hunting societies and let's say one farmer who suffers this damage. With your bill of law, you put an unfavourable position on farmers, I repeat again, you increase the pressure on them. They are now expected, beware of what is set out in Article 79(2). ‘A failure to take measures of authorised action and procedures shall not permit a hunting authorisation to carry out measures preventing any damage caused by savages or by foreign means to prevent damage intentionally or to remove objects which the damage prevention service does not have the right to compensate for the damage caused by the gamer’. And now that it's looked at in the overall context it's simply expected from farmers to drive out the game, and already here everything that's prescribed, to build fences is only a fence and it's once a solid fence, a high fence, not an electric shepherd, or whatever kind of chemical means are used to protect them from the rush of savages on agricultural land, you expect farmers to finance it all themselves, to spend their money, to spend their time. And besides loading farmers to be bookkeepers, that they must be financial experts consultants, that they must be lawyers, computer experts to enroll everything in Arkod, and I don't know where, now they'll have to be hunters. This bill does not make it easier for farmers to do business, on the contrary it makes it easier for hunters to do things in a way that is in the hands of insurance companies, or it will simply remove a large part of the risk, and it will also reduce the amount of money needed to compensate for the damage. I'm afraid this will further stimulate the negatives or losses in agricultural producers. From 2013 to today, we have lost 23,000 OPGs, many more are closed, some are open, but the balance gap is 23,000 OPGs in the last five years since EU entry. All this time we've known that agricultural policy is being implemented at the expense of small ones, and for the benefit of large ones. Todoric, Pipunic, Hrvatić, around them was a agricultural policy, the laws were written for them. The other day, on the kiosks of the ironies of the press, thousands of OPGs were not paid by Ivica Todorovic brought them to the edge of bankruptcy, they failed, and he has forced the model for years and years. No one has responded from the ministries, not the finances, not agriculture for years or years. So he could not pay, it compensated with exchanges, payment delays, bonuses, anything but money and not money in time, and it further devastated Croatian agriculture. But this government instead of learning something from it, Minister Tolusic, the Agricultural Land Act, which I was talking about here, the Law on the OPGs I was preparing for, but I couldn't speak for one trip and for various other measures that are not within the House's domain, but are still in the government's domain implementing such a policy continues to go hand in hand large, and to the harm of small ones. And this law will spill the damage from savages, all the pressure that is growing because more space is empty and there are more forests and these young forests, it will spill over on the Croatian agricultural producer. Will anyone be able to suffer these damages? Some will not, some will fail, some will have to close their OPG or their craft or their cooperative, but what legal form they have taken according to the law. So it's not a sustainable model, it's not a sustainable model for us to simply move that pressure to the other side, so what happens? It will simply lead to further decommissioning and eviction of Croatian rural space, if Croatian rural space continues to become a hunting ground for the rich, there will be no Croatian people, it is likely that rich foreigners or domestic tycoons will pop a little there in empty rural areas, agriculture will not be, but is now well maimed. In the last few weeks, I've visited several farmers, all in turn against this law and these changes to the law. Instead of the government having no intention of making the only right solution, which is to encourage settlement again in rural areas and to implement some serious measures of agricultural policy, why at least this law or related measures does not allow people, if they must already be responsible for this damage, to allow them to put that fence more favourable. However, this does not happen in Croatian agriculture. We have diabetes in Croatian agriculture, on the one hand we have, how many 27 billion kunas in banks they do not want to place and on the other hand we have a hunger I would say for investments in Croatian agriculture especially for microcredits in small Croatian farmers. And I remind you that the Croatian average farmer is a small OPG, 98% of them, the value of assets of maybe several hundred thousand kunas, it is not Ivica Todorovic, it is only a couple. I'm also afraid that this will be inconclusive because simply many farmers will not have the means and not the time to, therefore, implement these prescribed measures here to protect them from savages, to reduce that damage. I would also refer to article 81 of your bill, so it stands in paragraph 3 in the protection belt 300 meters from the border of the settlement in the valley and the prigorje and 200 meters in the mountainous areas do not compensate for the damage the game does, meaning eaten by the donkey wolf. There's no damage compensation in that space. It's clear who's going to be in harm's way. Finally, I would just like to say that the Living Wall will not support this bill because it will encourage further closure, or the escape of people from the village, the Croatian farmer is already feeling abandoned and by transferring the burden of this growing biological pressure coming from the forest to them will be in an even worse position. At the same time, there are no concrete measures that could help them to settle these areas in the long term, to change agricultural policy and not those in the short term. Here, help me build that fence or give me more favourable insurance measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85847	We are going to the 3rd debate of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, a respected colleague, Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85848	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. This law and its adoption are expected by many in Croatia from hunters and hunting companies, to tenants, private hunting grounds, and of course by people who are engaged in agriculture, which has already been discussed today. A few things about some articles about this law. Article 73 provides that the hunting test, the hunting test for the hunters and the assessment test for gamers shall be passed on to legal persons who, for that purpose, require the Ministry and Article 59(4) to pass on training for the hunter exclusively to the Croatian Hunting Union. I don't know if it's a mistake or if there's some reason, I'm not a hunter, so I can't judge it from that point of view. But I think if Article 73 of all exams has been resolved, that any registered legal person who has the power of the ministry can do so, I see no reason not to do so in Article 59 as regards the brig. Of course, the most debate and the most time when spoken here is carried out in these articles from 78 to 82, these are the damages caused by savages. I'm already on several occasions talking about it and many other colleagues and colleagues but I don't think this law is really going to solve this problem. And on behalf of our club, an appeal to the Ministry to find a solution to how to really protect people, primarily from wild pigs. We've passed the Animal Protection Act where we assume dogs to be human, and we basically single out more for dogs than for socially endangered citizens. Now, according to this law, we might find that savages will be assumed by humans and that savages will also have greater rights than humans. With all due respect to everyone and everyone but I think we still have to pass laws that primarily benefit people and then everything else. Thus, Article 79, which has already been mentioned, speaks of the fact that the damage has in fact very little chance of collecting the damage. Protection measures are so prescribed that they can't be made and can't be implemented and in no better position is not even a poacher, we're talking about common hunting grounds, we're talking about hunting societies, in no better position are neither hunting societies than that peasant. In principle, we have two hips that will have both damages. I would like a little clarification from the promoter related to Article 82. The damage report, the damage victim appears directly to the laureate. In a conversation with the secretary of state, I heard that the poacher was forming a commission to assess the damage on private land. If the defector is not happy and satisfied with the damage then he can take the witch he will, of course, pay. And eventually probably end up in court. I think that here it could be very simple to make improvements in the law and that local self-government units that already have formed committees to assess damages from natural disasters, from experts on crops, and I think that it would be much simpler for farmers to report their damage from savages to the local self-government unit, and that local self-government units would then make damage assessment and then report to the poachers after which further proceedings will take place. People think it's a lot simpler, and it's a lot more honest. Much more neutral. So here, to consider this proposal, to introduce that possibility in this article, therefore, the units of local self-government are the place where damage is reported and that local self-government units mean, assess and report to the poacher. I'd like the law to make it very clear to the private hunters and hunting associations. In that sense, he rents especially common hunting grounds. The county will now make decisions on the limits of the hunting grounds, if they fail, then the ministry will. It's okay, even though it's very hard to do it, there are always problems on the ground. But I'm actually interested in art. The 30th seems to me to be the renting fees and the distribution of those fees. 10% to the owner, of course, the proportional surface of the land he has in the hunting grounds, 30% to the state budget, and 50% to the state budget, and 10% to the county. I'm asking a question, why do you have such a distribution, and why do you even have a fee? Based on what? What happens from that fee after that? Is there any damage to the peasants? They don't smell. Not from that fee. Hunting societies are forced to pay a lot of compensation, and people whose country is concerned, whose country is in the border area of the hunting grounds, in principle, have nothing. Then let's cancel the fee. So let the hunting societies keep the balance in nature, which they do excellently, and let in some way solve the damage that occurs, which will be there. So there'll be money for damages. This way, the fee is paid, it does not come to those who should pay it, and those who also look reactively should not pay it because hunting associations, I repeat, should look completely different than the private tenants of state hunting grounds because they are doing it commercially or out of their hobby, if they have money that they can afford it for their lizard, and hunting societies definitely gather people, organize citizens and keep their balance in nature. A little bit around predators, especially foxes. So in many parts of the Republic of Croatia, foxes have become domestic animals, they know exactly those 300 meters from the settlement to the center where they are not to be shot, where they must not be removed. And they breed neatly and threaten people's lives. This law won't solve it either. Under the current law, there was the possibility of creating a game protection programme in the area of the local self-government unit. Since I met with this problem as head of local self-government in the town of Križevci often, we ordered the program. It's not a lot of money, we paid 12,000 kuna and we got the program. I thought, once we get that program, we'll be able to make a deal with the hunting company, with the police escorted, they'll go handcuffing, shooting handcuffs, and we'll clean it up. It's not like that. Because you can't shoot again. We can catch them with stunning arrows, bullets or so, and then we can take them somewhere. Of course they'll come back again. And at whose expense? Who's gonna do that? How much is that gonna cost? Who's gonna pay for that? Local self-government unit. So the law simply has to solve the game problem that threatens people. And if he won't give those solutions, then it won't be a good law. And these are our big, big problems right now. Wherever I'm walking around the Republic of Croatia, now we've heard from Istria, I've been some in Podravina, some places around the Republic of Croatia, people are pointing out, warning, they say, bring some law to get rid of now and the attack that has appeared. This bill of law does not solve these two problems that we are talking about. And I really ask and appeal to the ministry to look deeply at these issues until the second reading and to have them deeply consider the issues and to have the legal solutions dealt with because this is how we're going to pass the law and what, again, the same story of transferring responsibility to each other and no benefit from everything, people suffer, of course, and the problems just pile up instead of shrinking. In particular, I also stress this problem with handcuffs in populated areas, find a solution that can really remove these animals. They're predators, they're doing damage, and just because we're going to put them to sleep, transfer a few hundred meters or a few miles won't mean anything is going to settle elsewhere, but they're going to come back to that same place, and we're going to do expenses. It's not enough that we now have full dog asylums that will live there for 10, 15 years with good food and care, I guess now we'll be doing asylums for foxes as well. But for feral pigs, it wouldn't be a bad thing to do asylum, they have quality meat, so it might be good if it doesn't remember, and it also forbids that it can't be done out of the need to eat, too, so to speak, to die, to kill. Dear Secretary of State, we will support this law in our first reading, and until the second reading, please really well consider these problems that are present and offer us solutions as people in the profession, people who can do it quality way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85849	Thank you. For the next part of the debate, the HSS Representatives' Club will be registered on their behalf by representative Zeljko Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85850	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. The law on hunting, the law we have long been waiting for here, we have talked about it before, but unfortunately here is the Minister of Agriculture who proposes this law is not present to hear from representatives in the Croatian Parliament who should be the national representatives who are the problems and what we think is not good in this law. This law in certain parts is really embarrassing, even more embarrassing to be proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, I would understand that there is a hunting ministry so that it proposes such a law in certain parts, but the Ministry of Agriculture proposes this law. Article 1 management shall include breeding, protection, hunting and use of game. Why not worry about habitats and why not damage done by savages in Article 1? Article 3 says game is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. I suggest you put it there that the state is then the owner of the game, so when certain problems arise to know who owns it. This is how we don't know the owner. Article 4 of the law sets out the objectives of this law, and I wonder why there is no objective among these objectives of the law of preventing damage to the population and agriculture. I think it should be the aim of this law, but in the further part, you will see that this is by no means the goal and that must not be the goal. Article 30(2) says the owner of the land without hunting rights shall have until 30 September until 1 March at the latest to apply for an application for a fee for the current hunting year for the areas where the catch has been established. Why does the owner have to look for it? So if anyone uses his land he has to pay himself what he owes him. As the State gives agricultural land or someone else in a concession, one who has received a concession must and pays that concession, and does not have to be asked by the State to pay that concession for a certain period of time. According to the concession, the hunt cannot be granted, so among other things, it states why the condition is not laid down means that these conditions are which cause the concession to be abolished or that more... Why is there no damage to agricultural products or to the population? There are long court proceedings, people have terrible losses on their productions, and this is not a condition for someone to lose their concession or for that concession to be taken away from him in some way in the future. Article 56, this is one of the really funniest articles and we have talked about it before and said, says dogs and cats and their owners, and shepherd dogs must not let them move around the hunting grounds without supervision at a distance greater than 200m from the settlement or herd. My people, so who's from a rural village that had a cat, and I believe a lot of them did, so I'm asking you how are you gonna stop a cat from going 200 meters away, let's have someone tell me? So I think who writes these laws? So didn't these people go out of the asphalt anywhere without having anything, or a puppy, or a machete to not see it? Second tragedy, I have 20 acres of land behind my house, my dog can't run on my land, I own it because it's more than 200 meters from home. We take care of animal welfare, we say that the dog must not be on the chain, he must be here, he must be there, and now he must not be free, and he is not a hunting dog. What if it was hunting? Article 66, however, is not resolved by this law, whether a fox near the settlement or in the settlement. We were aware of the TV situation, the fox appeared as if it had landed a UFO, people were surprised by it, and we see the fox every day. And then no one can kill a fox, hunters can't shoot within 300 meters, police save God to shoot a fox because they're not hunters. What? Strangle her with your hands? I ask you that those officers who write it there, so bring them to me; behold, I will spend them, and they shall be with me seven days at my expense, and he shall see how they live in the country. Did the fox come in the next day to steal the chicken? She's hungry. On the other hand, and the nail that went after her and no one can kill that fox so I don't know how sick she is. This law also states that consultations have also been carried out regarding the writing of this law and that only one party has been invited, which is the Croatian Hunting Union. I'm also arguing here as a farmer, but as a hunter, I'm probably not going to get this hunting stamp after this anymore so I can go hunting because no one's going to call me. Why are no agricultural associations invited along with the Croatian Hunting Union? None of them were invited to consult. So what's he saying? That the Croatian Hunting Union has special protection of HDZ and that they can do whatever they want and you will see it further in the other parts that I will list here. I think it's a shame that those who do harm and who contribute to the economy of this country are not invited to point out the problems that are happening here. I'm asking you, what good is hunting? Maintaining balance, I agree, regulate the number of savages, I agree, but I'm asking you how much we've benefited from hunting tourism? I was also a State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism and Director of the County Tourist Board, so I know very well how to benefit from tourism, usually on black in the pocket of hunting tourism. Someone shoots themselves when they arrive and where they arrive at night, takes everyone away. Strangers, how much did we make from them? And how much do we make from farming in the rural area? The distribution of money, of course, should go to units of local self-government, so in their areas hunting sites have been established, in their areas they have suffered both hunters and the damages and all and most of the bounty should certainly go to them. Now let's go to those interesting articles, that's 76, and I'll tell you again who's crazy, it looks like a lot of them. A poacher, a natural and legal person to whom a savage can cause... the property damage in the further text, the injured party is obliged to take all necessary measures to prevent the damage that the gamer can do to people and property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then the most interesting article, article 79, which discusses preventing damage in hunting sites, says the prevention of damage in hunting sites is ensured to take the following actions. The damage is due in an appropriate manner in your cost as good, take everything to protect yourself. So I'm asking you how you're not ashamed to put this in there, yet write as a good master. Isn't that farmer a good master? Does he have to invest his money to protect his crops? I'm gonna go back to my example again, 30 acres, 15 parcels, so I'm gonna ask you who's gonna fence them. When you fence, you need to set up the shepherd, the pillars, you need to mow and sprawl underneath it, make sure there's no short circuit, 15 batteries, and I don't tell you who all those batteries are at the end of the robbery. Who can do that from a farmer? I'm asking you in HDZ if you're proposing this law. And your voters will get hurt by this. Posavina, Banovina, tops. There were wartime acts of pigs crossed with a pie pig, not raising one or two yearly alive already 10 or 15 pieces a year. My people, it's a ride, people can't defend themselves with any more of that. This is a problematic article because gentlemen want to be fenced from all the damages that they don't have to ensure, that they don't have to give money for damage in this way that there's this farmer who's a good master to make and produce, now and he has to be a good master to protect himself. I don't know when and when, with all his production and all the trouble he's having in agriculture today, he can even stack all these wonders to protect himself from a wild pig. For the damage caused by the game in the hunting grounds, the poacher shall answer if the damage has taken all measures. So all these measures you're supposed to deliver, all these wonders that are usually not delivered by the poachers, but they bring you in a fruit bottle something that smells like oil and they tell you that's... for pigs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you stick your stakes, you put on sponges, you can do it, and then the pigs go to it like you put it on them, I don't know what kind of bait. Usually you can't get to the electric shepherds. The damage to the vehicles. The damage caused by the impact on game vehicles shall be as follows. The driver shall, if it is established that he has managed the vehicle against the provisions and the poacher whose hunting grounds have suffered damage if the damage has been found to have been caused by the carrying out of the hunt. So it's only during the hunt if you hit a deer then you'll get damages. And where are the migrations of savages? We all know very well that game has migration, that it knows not the road, but it goes its own way. And if some savage ran into the side of the car, not just in front of the car, who's gonna pay for the damage? I hope whoever suggested this and who signed it has an expensive Mercedes so they can steal 200 kilos of boar, that's what I want him to do. And... So let's see what he thinks about all this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I come up with a problem addressed to the Committee on Agriculture. It is the company Korina production from Novska, which owns 1800 hectares, employs 45 people, a solid company that has suffered total damage this year at 200 hectares. I ask you, who can get over it? And you know what's sadder? That hunting grounds with which they border is called Grede Kamara and with it are the masters of the Croatian Hunting Union. The Croatian Hunting Union, which should be an example of compensation for damages and how the law should operate, do not provide and pay no damage. They've been tried for many years, tried to negotiate and talk to them, tried to talk to the state's attorney's office, but they're no one. They're always stalled and trying to play them so they can make up for their damage. Today when the young have gone, not to go, 350 thousand have gone away, today when we're running out of OPGs in such a large number, when agriculture becomes the worst interest, we propose this law to destroy these OPGs, these are family economies that will not be able to defend themselves from wild pigs in this way. What are people thinking here? Well, I agree when the president criticises the work of this government. Well, that's all treasure. So watch what we're doing. Is this another Borg group in the form of the Croatian Hunting Union? What's the money going on around here, people? So what now? In order for some fat ass to sit still on a check and not have to pay compensation, we write the law for them. So what kind of hunters don't take care of those who feed them game, and farmers feed the game to the Republic of Croatia. Whether what the savage takes, knocks down, or what remains after harvest. You must be aware of that, they must be aware of that in the hunting alliance, but they obviously don't care. But it should be the Minister of Agriculture's concern, because he's the Minister of Agriculture first and foremost. The primary minister of agriculture, and agriculture feeds the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, although insufficiently because we have ruined it, but now we are still ruining it, and unless you respect the remarks, unless you sit down with the agricultural associations and agree this way, after that, if you do not respect it, HSS will certainly not support this hunting law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85851	The HDZ Representatives' Club has applied for participation in the debate. On their behalf, MP Tomislav Klaric will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85852	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let us finally return to the Law, to these amendments, that is, to the new Law, and specifically what it adopts in this case. Here, in any case, you don't have to interfere with the mind of who and what and most about why a law like this is passed. In the Republic of Croatia we have over 60 thousand registered hunters, over 1050 hunting associations, 20 hunting alliances along the city of Zagreb. When we look at the family members of our 60,000 hunters, when we look at everyone who, in any way, encounters this problem, from farmers, from road drivers, we talked about it today, then we realize that this is a very important law that needs to be considered, well discussed, and in any case I commend all the efforts made so far on this part by the Minister of Agriculture himself, the Secretary of State, but also the whole working group that participated in the preparation of this Law. So, one of the basic issues that are covered by these Bills is concessions in the field of hunting. In particular, 30 years of contract, in those 30 years everything has happened, change is, you can't plan a literal life in this part of the bill is worked out and this problem, I think, is very positive. The second major newspaper of this Law is in some way decentralisation of powers so that so far the powers of the Ministry have been lowered to the level of counties, and primarily in the part relating to hunting-economic grounds related to common hunting grounds, to the approval of basic taxis and everything else, I will say a little more about it in the free part of the debate before the end. The proof that the tradition that is already well rooted in the Croatian Hunting Union, which is a hundred years of practicality, is that it should not be easy to deal with any changes where this eye-benign change or reintroduction into the law concept hunter. Although the previous Law abolished that name, an expert was put in place to implement the hunting-economic base, in normal terminology, in the normal functioning of all hunting societies regardless of such a legal provision, the hunter was still detained. And what is most important and where they really and definitely insisted not only on hunting societies, I would also say traffic participants who were, in some ways, damaged not only in that part of the material costs on their vehicles during the attack of savages on vehicles, but also in the long-term litigation that regularly ended in practice and related to the case law on mandatory relations, on the burden of hunting associations, so that some of them were practically in front of bankruptcy. If someone here thinks that this is about some huge profit or some income from hunting associations with the basis of hunting, it is not necessary to forget what is in the basic name of this law but in the Croatian Hunting Union and every association of ours, that it is, or the Croatian Hunting Union, which is primarily intended for breeding, protection and game hunting, it should not be disturbed by the mind because that hunting in the classical sense of the word referring to a shooting is just a consequence, or a minimum part of what hunters do in that part of the business. In large part, I think this provision of the law is a huge discharge of not only hunting associations, but also of the drivers themselves, since the responsibility of the policy is in some way transferred and taken over by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport and the Croatian Hunting Union, and through it, the hunting association. And I think it's one of the many significant shifts in terms of the insurance that started there in the early 2000s was very minimal in the amount of several thousand kunas, so for some common hunting grounds over 30, 40,000 insurances per year from game damage after insurance companies saw the circumstances and heights of damage. And I think this is a huge financial discharge, but it's also certain security, even though in one of the debates when we were having a hearty conversation about this, I finally think that this part of the burden should, in some way, be solved through other laws through insurance additionally in terms of insurance and when registering a vehicle. And now we're coming up with something that was agreed with the task force, if someone here was saying that the very preparation of this law wasn't transparent enough, let them take over the entire material and read what ministry had delivered, so they'll see how wide the public debate was held, how many participants participated in the debate itself with their written remarks and suggestions. We are coming back to the Croatian Hunting Union and what was in some way agreed in the preparation of the law and ultimately during the consultation probably between the ministry in some way amended in this bill that came before us. There is also a written indication of the Croatian Hunting Union itself, one of them refers to internships or what we once called it, a traineeship before the hunting exam itself, and here I think that such a thing is really justified if we see that the article 73 speaks of what it should have, which is kind of recognised by the exam and which is the scope of these people's programme. I am speaking from personal experience because I myself became a member of a hunting society many, many years ago when I was 16 years old and in the meantime I was also in a number of mandates and I am president of a hunting society so I know well what I'm talking about and I think this is the kind of remark of the Croatian Hunting Union, and it will be in front of our club, in some ways and proposed through the amendment to be respected as well. There is one legitimate observation relating to the funds, so every hunting association in the conclusion of a hunting contract under the law must provide that amount of the lease as a certain guarantee for the execution of obligations to the concessionr, and that is where we come to that famous Article 27, which provides for the termination of the right to lease the rights of the hunt. This article therefore states, among other things, that it expires on the expiry date for which it is given unless otherwise specified by law and an example of a unilateral termination of the contract on the lease of the right of the beneficiary. This article also provides that in all cases referred to in this paragraph, the lessee loses the right to the funds for the orderly execution of the obligations entered into by the contract. I don't see why if the hunting association that has taken over the hunting grounds, which has provided financial resources, has given an adequate guarantee for those funds, why would it lose that right if the concessionr unilaterally abolishs or the contract itself expires so that something like this is completely inappropriate in that part of me, in a way it goes to the expense of the hunter. We speak here and, among other things, when he mentions those 16 and 18 years in connection with a hunting card alone, if we say that the possibility of getting a weapon will be at 16 years of age for shooting societies, for hunting societies, I see no reason why the Croatian Hunting Union or member of society could not get a 16-year-old card. In the Benign amendments to Article 9, which states that the Croatian Hunting Union is a voluntary national association made up of hunting alliances and countys and the city of Zagreb and that the Croatian Hunting Union represents its members by promoting hunting in the Republic and abroad, it is proposed and I think it is very easy to accept it without any broader debate, because behind the words of the City of Zagreb, and that the word of the hunting association should be added, and I have initially said that the Croatian Hunting Association has almost 1060 of these hunting associations in the area of the Republic. So that part also mentions hunters who are not members of the hunting association, why not allow them to be members of the Croatian Hunting Union. In any case, related to game and thinking, and the proposal and the Croatian Hunting Union to include in the list of mongoose savages, there are reflections of twins. Namely, it is where, although it has already been present for 100 years in our hunting grounds, in my opinion, unlike the position of the Croatian Hunting Union, the same opinion that it does not belong in our territory and that it should complete the elimination of all this. Another thing that matters here, what if there weren't any hunting associations, what if there weren't any hunting societies? In what way would farmers and crops be protected or something else? About the work itself, the work model, the activities of the Croatian Hunting Union, the hunting society, there should be taken into account that every hunting society is committed to making a hunting economic judgment, strictly adhere to everything that is stated there. The current situation, the situation, is a number of conditions of game on the Republic of Croatia, health and other conditions, and game is a very good reason for the action of hunting associations in the Republic of Croatia, not to say that in the obligation of all hunters to give samples to analysis, from the brain, to the rabies of the blades, to the blood and all that is done, therefore, from all the obligations that arise. And finally, finally, something that needs to be mentioned, I think it should be returned to the law, it's the removal of dogs and strays and cats from the hunting grounds. No matter who you think, the fact is, and I've personally witnessed it, if anyone's interested, I have photos on my cell phones, that dogs are neither strays nor cats, nor even guilty, they blame their owners who do such a thing, drop game in the hunting grounds, and what's worst at the time, right now, when you're running the cubs, the damage can be huge. And in any case, I think it should be put into the law and that possibility of hunting societies, with hunting societies, neither hunters, nor hunters, to end up thinking about being some kind of dog and shooting off such animals and thus eliminating them from the hunting grounds. But, irresponsible owners, dogs, cats and those who drop it in the hunting grounds without any control, in any case and legally any way, obviously so unfortunately to be, to show, that such a thing must not be done. The more hunters themselves are, among other things, a huge number of them, very active in the kinological alliance to own several kinds of different dogs, breeds, and that they themselves in the time themselves are just hunting, the more they would never think of, the more they would not, for example, go out into the hunting grounds with their dog, without being released and that in any way against it, or on game. In any case, this bill is very good, it should be supported, with all the understanding of the difficulties and farmers and all those who are fighting for their existence in the way they act in this way, but in any case, I think that the Ministry of Agriculture, through these practically, has shown in a very good way now 2 years in the preparation of its legal solutions sensitivity not only on this part of the hunting issue, but also on all the other problems they are dealing with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85853	Thank you. HNS representatives' club has applied for participation in the debate. In their name will speak the representative of the Goddess Macar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85854	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. Here, today we are discussing the Hunting Law that should regulate breeding, protection, hunting and use of game, but of course everything else that is related to it. Today, there has been a lot of talk about the damage that savages do in our fields, in our forests, in our citizens, in traffic or in some other situations, when it enters places and other things. In a public debate with the interested public, there have indeed been many objections, this only proves that it is an important law, but also a bill, where it is often opposed. And we understand in HNS, that there are really different opinions and that everyone is looking from their point of view and that this law is trying in some way to regulate that area, is standing and it is necessary to do so. So, there are objections to the Associations for the Protection of Animals and Nature, we understand them, but we also understand the problems of our agricultural producers, our forest owners, our citizens, who are facing great damage on the ground, caused by sharp savages. There are hunters with their problems, who are really not small, because they care about animals and nature, and often they are perceived in public as an armed group of people walking in the woods and killing animals. This law should regulate relations in hunting management with which recommendations and difficulties that make it difficult to develop and improve hunting at national level should be removed. Thus, he should introduce more order in hunting than in hunting, breeding, protecting, hunting, and trafficing savages, as well as in the use of hunting weapons. The bill also creates assumptions for the rapid development of hunting tourism, reviving hunting customs and traditions, strengthening hunting ethics and more effective involvement of hunters and their associations in the development and promotion of hunters as significant economic branches. Being a hunter is an honorable hobby, and so in our midst, the vast majority still experience this hobby. We have more than 60,000 hunters who have already been there today words and more than a thousand associations, and we must strive not to reduce that number because they really care about our nature and balance of that nature, but that all of this needs to be further regulated, it is necessary. And that's why we have this law in front of us right now. I will not look back on all the good that we think this law is making, but I will list these few articles and remarks on behalf of the HNS Club which we believe might further improve this law. So on behalf of the club, I will look back on Article 66, where it is forbidden to hunt game in a 300m band from the border of the settlement or 200m in specially protected parts of nature. There's already been a lot of talk about why. Well, we're witnessing large migrations of savages, especially in settlements where there's a lot of abandoned houses, abandoned estates. There are not only rural areas but there are such situations in cities where we have abandoned houses, ruins that are empty or nearby there are no inhabitants. And we therefore propose that regardless of the position of the other ministries and opinions given the use of weapons in the vicinity of the settlement, that this 100m limit be considered or that it is precisely defined how these animals can be eliminated from that area because they pose a real threat to that population in that area. There was also talk about the article 77, that is, responsibility for the prevention of wildlife damage, this is a good reduction in the number of savages from a number of conditions that can be cultivated, insurance, crop protection, and plantation, the exorcism of savages. However, we really need to see what is disputed and where we have in Article 79(2) to get right ahead, prevent damage in hunting grounds is ensured by taking the following actions, allowable actions and procedures are effectively building goods, target protection of goods, exorcision of game, implementation of agrotechnical measures, communication without delay in the initial damage to circumstances which may affect the taking of measures. I really suggest that if it stays, that it is precisely defined regardless of the practice and everything else, that there is no uncertainty about what it is building because I still don't know who is obliged if we have 15 neighbors who have plots to each other that border the forest, who is now obliged to take action to fence this land. Simply if it remains so, it should be clarified that this particular problem is defined, that is, the way in which it is solved. We further have an observation in Article 78 where the damage to property is, that is, paragraph 1 is the damage that a gamer causes by its action in a way that reduces the value of movement or property owned by natural or legal persons, which is a damage to agricultural cultures, domestic animals, economic or other objects and is now continuing down here, but I suggest that damage to property and to agricultural cultures be placed both in forest and forest land. Because I don't know what the reason is, and I hope there's no legal reason not to compensate for the damage done by the savage in the woods and the forest land. Forest and forest land is exclusively a natural habitat of large game, it simply does not stand because this same large game of agricultural land uses depending on the species of game and up to 80% of its life activities. This percentage is even higher in the use of meadows and pastures, the use of agricultural areas for the life activities of tiny gamers should not be specifically elaborated. No compensation for the damage caused by game damage in the forest and forest land could have the effect that it is in fact discrimination in terms of compensation for damage done according to the method of use of the cadastrian particle and its parts, or of which of the species of use of the cadastral particle. Then there is the possibility of losing the interest of a hunting authorisation to carry out any protection actions to prevent damage caused by game in the forest and forest land. It would be good to actually equalise the forest and forest land with agricultural land because the damage exists. We have state forests managed by Croatian forests, but we also have a lot of private forest owners who suffer significant damage and we believe that they should not be in a different position than they are owners of agricultural land. I'm here on the article. And we have a further observation in Article 80 where we suggest that in paragraph 2 where the poacher is standing is not responsible for the damage caused by the goods which have not been removed no later than a month from the course of the agrotechnical harvest or harvest crop to delete it because it is the same agrotechnical time period different from climate to climate, from year to year, some time the parcel itself, because even though it is in the same area, it is different whether because of later sowing and everything. So we think it might get out of that law. And also in Article 81, where it stands, the damage that savages do is irreparable, so that I don’t list it all, but it also says that it doesn’t settle in forest and forest land. I used to say that when we had this article in 78, we feel that this should be moved to the forest and forest land because it should have the same attitude towards forest and forest land as to agricultural land. Here's the HNS club to support this law in the first reading. We think that a lot of good things have been proposed, we think that it is a shift relative to the current situation, but we think that we need to analyse all these remarks that have already been made there, which will still be, everything that's been said on the board, everything that we've received in writing from various associations, and that we're going to get even more quality law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85855	Thank you. The SDP representative club also reported for participation in the debate. Representative Bojan Glavasevic will speak for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85856	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club, unfortunately, cannot support this bill in its first reading. There's a lot of reasons for that. One part of the reason concerns the comments concerning the fact that this law actually goes to the harm of the county because they are actually given a larger range of jobs, they are given more responsibility without the right to control, they are deprived of significant funds and are prevented from monitoring the quality of management, but I will speak more about it in my individual debate. What I would like to dedicate to the central part of the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives are the remarks that have actually come to the SDP of Croatia and I believe that all of you have come from different associations for environmental protection. The SDP representative club has fully accepted the comments sent by the Association BIOM, the WF Adria Association and the Croatian Society for the Protection of Birds and Nature. And actually today we want to make a central point in our debate about these remarks. Before I go into detail, I only have two more remarks, one is that the damage compensation will be spoken more by fellow Peja Grbin, which we consider to be the same important part. And just like, since I mentioned environmental protection associations, we're, by the way, working very well together and we're very pleased to read all the remarks that the Animal Friends Association is sending us. However, so it was in this case around this law, that association sent us numerous remarks. However, I would like to ask here a question without any bad intentions, I think the president of the association is Mr Tolusic's special adviser, Minister, Deputy Prime Minister. Well, I don't know why then, or Mr. Tolusic doesn't listen to advice, I think, but for some reason the association that Mr. Oman is president obviously doesn't feel adequately represented at the ministry, so here's what you might pay attention to. What I want to talk about here today, but I'm saying this note was really devoid of any bad intentions that would not be misunderstood just for political reasons it's simply necessary to mention. So our remarks, which we got from the association that I mentioned, are actually 4. The first refers to what I have already mentioned in the replica and concerns the definition of a large vernacular as a species, although it is contrary to Article 7. A directive on the conservation of wild birds of the EU. Namely, a large crow is not included in the list of species in the Annex to the two Directives and only those species can be defined as hunters. I'll say more about that later. Second, our comments refer to a lead shotgun fired on marsh habitats which is not defined as a violation by this law, although the use of lead ash on marsh habitats is generally prohibited, there is no sanction for it and the existence of sanctions is a prerequisite for that ban to be implemented in reality. The last two, or 3rd and 4th, we believe that they are actually much more serious than these previous two and that they really need to be given more weight. The first is to hunt the ponds that are allowed by this law under the pretext that the ponds are savages. It's not known if the game is grown on ponds at all. And namely, members and members of these associations who are really very much on the ground, they have not recorded barriers that could clearly separate the farmed feathered game from the wild birds that come to the ponds. And in the ponds, numerous, strictly protected species suffer during the shooting. I'll say more about that later. 4. The last remark concerns the proposal in this law that data from the central hunting records, i.e. the catch register and hunting plans to be declared a business secret, is set out in Article 49(2). This is about important information concerning a common resource belonging to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And the right to access this information to the entire public is protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and many international agreements. The transparency of hunting registers and hunting plans is in fact a prerequisite to determine, on an independent basis, whether hunting takes place in accordance with the law and the assessment of the acceptability of hunting in the environmental network of nature 2000. So, since I was already talking about it in the replica, I'd just like to repeat, as far as the great crow is concerned, the most basic thing. So, this bill of law, the great crow is added to the list of species, that move is contrary to the bird directive. In the directive in which it is said, in Annex 2, a large crow is not mentioned and thus cannot be included in the list of species. Although, here, it is said that the Ministry of Environment has sent consent to this, however, there should be note that, because of the fact that, I mean, it's easy to check, you can and now check on the phone, in Appendix 2 you will not find that kind. In addition, it is possible that the Commission is taking legal action against Croatia because of a breach of law. It should be noted that two proceedings have already been conducted against Croatia due to incomplete transposition of the provisions of the European Nature Protection Directives. One case was in March 2015 and it should be said that there is no need for this, it is very easy to correct. So we here clearly that the great crow is a problem of damage in the ponds and need to find a solution, however, this solution would indeed have to be in line with the current legal order in Croatia and the rules of the profession. And that's not the case here for an hour, because a big crow can't be a species, and that's the kind that's in charge of the Ministry of Hunting Affairs, or the Ministry of Agriculture. This issue needs to be addressed by regulations in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy and through damages, as they are in accordance with the Nature Protection Act, non-wild birds, and thus a large crow in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Nature Protection. So, here's a recommendation to talk to the partner ministry, I'm sure it's possible a solution that won't potentially expose us to the European Commission. Second, it refers to the use of lead ash in swamp habitats. In Croatia, there is a principle ban on hunting oval shotgun in swamp habitats, it is prescribed. The 10th paragraph of the 3rd Regulation on the use of hunting weapons and ammunition and shows, in marsh habitats, that fire is permitted exclusively by the use of a steel-sacred fold. With this proposal for a law on hunting, the use of a stack of lead shotguns in swamp habitats is still not prescribed as a violation. It is therefore necessary to implement such a provision at all, it is also necessary to prescribe as a violation and punishment for the use of lead ash in marsh habitats. This would also facilitate the conduct of hunting inspectors, who, since programming the ban on lead shotgun in 2010, do not, to date, actually have any treatment for the use of lead shotgun charges. And also, we'll see if by the second reading of this law, this provision is not included, then of course we'll elaborate it more in detail with the amendments. We come to our third objection to this law, which actually allows hunting on ponds. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Article 10(2) of this proposal states that the establishment of a water catch site and ponds with coastal land used for the use of ponds is prohibited. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Point 2 of point 2 of this Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. So our proposal would be to get this article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council with regard to the application of this Regulation. The aim of this exception is to actually carry out the hunt, and primarily to think of hunting for swamp birds. Although other species of animals that are game can dwell on ponds, which can primarily be wild pigs or deer, they are cornered. They don't systematically hunt. In fact, there is only one game farm that has listed a wild boar as a breeding game. When fishing, it is impossible to distinguish game from non-ferrous species, resulting in blasts of strictly protected and other non-ferrous bird species. I have data from a survey organised by the Ministry of Agriculture, since 2008-2011, the causes of blasted swamps were taken during regular hunting, and samples were taken by authorised ornithologists, who determined the shot species, fired birds to species. The study was conducted on 3 Slavonian carpal ponds, Grudnja, Nasice and Donji Miholjac, which led to tax data, the proportion of strictly protected bird species in regular catches was on average 16.29% after each hunting season from 6.32 to almost 19%. Catching strictly protected bird species on one hunting day was rarely greater than 10% during 1/5 hunting days and greater than 20% during the 1/10 total hunting days. The worst part of strictly protected species in catch during one day was almost 61%. You could now specify the species of animals here, i.e. the species that were most protected by it, but I say I would rather leave it then if this provision were not adopted, but the fact is that there is a dispersion of strictly protected bird species to kill strictly protected bird species and what may be the worst of all that we have talked about earlier is a burden on the environment with lead shotgun, even though it is, as it was said, forbidden by the rule, there is no provision that prescribes sanctions and thus is used. Lastly and perhaps of some widest interest to the general public in Croatia, we propose to delete Article 49 and every 2nd of this law because it prohibits access to data from the central hunting record. First and foremost, it simply does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Law in the right to access information. So if we are talking about the goods that are in of interest to Croatia, they have its special protection, which they certainly are, was the divergence of the Republic of Croatia and the different species that it protects. We must have access to this data, so the right to access data is the right protected in the Republic of Croatia at the level of the Constitution and thus something like this is simply not constitutional, it cannot be interested, namely some logic of this was to protect itself, in order to declare it secret or not publicly available for the protection of commercial interests of a natural or legal person including intellectual property. So these data cannot be a secret, rightful owner, therefore commercial interests, commercial interests of anyone whose interests cannot be in front of the general interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So it can't be declared a secret, I'm really asking you not to go into it. Here it is, that's what we think is really the provision of this law that goes to the detriment of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are ready, I say, we hope that you will listen well to what we have brought to you in this debate, ready to send you all these remarks and in the format of amendments in the second reading if you do not now adopt them, but here, I really hope, I think it's important to understand that what we've said here doesn't come from some way let me say, political perspectives than this comes from people who are dealing with environmental protection, all the remarks I think are brought here by son of an ira et studio, and there's really no reason not to implement them. Yeah, speaking of hunting, we're talking about something else that's economic activity, but it's important that when we do laws, we don't do laws to damage our environment. This planet is the only thing we have, we have no other, and here, I really hope you'll implement the things you've heard here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85857	Representative Josip Djakic reported on the individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85858	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So here's today's debate in the first reading of the Hunting Law is certainly welcome because hunting with its 65,000 members and hunting alliances has reached a high consensus with the Ministry as well as with the Assembly Committee on Agriculture on this law, so that their interests and needs are covered by this legislative proposal on hunting management, reviving, improving hunting customs, traditions, hunting ethics and only hunting have a new dimension because it is recognised as a significant economic branch that contributes to the sureness of the development of all our lands, although some others have been mined and prevented hunting, I hope that it will be removed in the further part. So minima is one of the obstacles to hunting development and I must stress that the hunters who were the only armed formations at the very beginnings of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia were the only armed formations that were put in defense of sovereignty and defence of those areas where arson and other non-communities took place in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore wish that today those who are united in 1000 and some associations and 200 of them are almost bankrupt due to legal assumptions and court practices that are unequal and the damages that have been made are actually one of the essential items in this law. The damages to game and game as well as to traffic are the thing facing today's organizations that are ahead, as I said, are clearly speaking about the need to take certain measures to enable insurance through in the common things of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance as well as the Hunting Alliance so that these insurance policies can be made available as well as insurance companies, seeing the damage they are, have raised their premiums that hunting associations can't actually pay. A series of things that are facing problems in hunting today are, as I said, minimality, depopulations of entire areas as well as agricultural areas, devastation, large complexes of areas are under monoculture, fires in coastal, coastal areas of the state, a large number of wild and unregulated garbage dumps, the construction of infrastructure facilities especially highways with fences that prevent game migration and the presence of economic problems and the poor economic situation of the majority of the population is a insufficient number of inspectors in some counties. So this new law and its solutions actually create assumptions for introducing more order in hunting, as well as for helping hunting associations and hunters themselves to secure both hunting sites and damages that occur from savages. Because game is a national value that is also defined by the Constitution, but in all judgments they are guilty of most hunting associations and they are charged with enormous damages that they cannot withstand by their memberships or incomes. So, this Law is one of the basic issues that is being settled is the question of concessions in the field of hunting. They are in line with the concession law, but a lot of things happen during the concession period and so it is necessary and must be taken into account that the circumstances change over time and that programmes can be revised as well as the corrections of certain programmes offered during the concession period itself, given the circumstances that can be assumed. This proposal proposes that over a future period of concessions, hunting rights are given for 30 years, and depending on the proposed area for a higher economic cost and hunting and tourism perspective of areas greater than 10 thousand hectares, in which the management of all types of large game or game breeding grounds is greater than 1000 hectares. As one of the new measures, a new way of approving hunting-economic grounds for state, private and common hunting grounds is prescribed, and is prescribed that the poacher in the state, private hunting grounds, the new economic basis for approval, shall be carried out by the Ministry, to the authority in the common hunting grounds, a new economic basis on the basis of approval, shall be adopted by the competent authority of the county or the city of Zagreb. These are the novelties that have been passed in this law. The possibility of establishing a private hunting ground is also proposed. ... dispute over compensation damage on the areas concerned since the establishment of private hunting grounds on the surface of land held as owner, owner of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] the hunting grounds have taken over obligations related to the prevention of game damage on those surfaces and have been responsible for the damage caused on their surface, thereby avoiding the difficulties that occur in the practice of the owners of large areas so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, given that the Croatian Hunting Union is in line with the Ministry of Agriculture and also with the Ministry of Agriculture, there are certain amendments that should be included until the second reading and considered, which are about the size of private agricultural land where private hunting grounds would be established, and then distance from the settlement, whether it should be 200-300 or should finally be 100 meters where hunting or observation can be done. Then there are some items that concern the very species of animals that may have to be included or should not be included, we'll see about that. We hope that these proposals that have come as amendments to the Croatian Hunting Union are not so important, do not violate or remove, that they can be clearly explained by the Ministry, which may be good and which is not, as well as what is called when a man can become a hunter. I think two years of internship from 16-18 is a time when he actually has to be in a hunting union as a member, when he has to gain knowledge etc. and prepare to pass the hunting exam. Then they turn 18 and carry a weapon. I think it's quite a logical performance. We hope that in the future we may also have the vote of those at the age of 16, so that other things will be legally adapted to those very moments. I welcome the adoption of this law. This Law certainly is welcome in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and significantly improves the status of hunting associations as well as the hunters themselves associated through these associations. I hope that he will help in many ways to resolve these damages as defined. As well as the establishment of hunting grounds as well as concessions or leases, and we hope that what some counties are opposed to, must understand that there should be money for insurance policies that are necessary and necessary, and that this schedule is certainly in line with the community of counties, municipalities and cities, and so that there should be no significant obstacles in the adoption of this Second Reading Act, we hope that from these amendments that have been delivered from the hunting alliance something else will be used because there is something good in that, several of these items can be included in the Law as it can be, at 16 years of age, a hunter, that it can be hunted 100 meters from a populated place, as well as this game that should enter into that economic base or not. We hope that the Ministry will bring together a new law with us, which will benefit this population, as well as further development of this economic branch. hunting tourism which in rural areas achieves the highest number of nights and thus fills the contents in our rural areas. Thank you very much for this legislative proposal and I hope that we will come up with the best solution together.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85859	The replica was first reported by Agent Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85860	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Col. Djakic, you have touched this 300-metre protected belt in your debate from the settlement. Whether to leave that belt to 300 or to reduce it to 200 or perhaps in some other way to ensure that the hunting is done in that part because we are witnessing that in that part 200, 300m is exactly the most pests or foxes that, especially when we talk about agricultural breeders, do great damage. So I certainly appeal that the legislator takes care of it and think about whether or not to provide or enable hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85861	Replica response, MP Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85862	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow uncle that you're right, practice shows that a hunter in his backyard can't shoot a fox, and that a neighbor will report him without a weapon and that's the paradox of all paradoxes. How many hunters and how many could these vermin that sneak around the yard and around the houses be solved without being allowed to. And he's trained to use weapons in exactly the right way not to do anything with weapons that would be to the harm of neighbors, people, etc. but it is used for the purpose. Equally when a car accident occurs and the animal is still alive. I ran into a wild pig who got hit by a car, split him up, still moving so angry all the way to the driver who went out and watched what happened. What and how to kill him when he's in a populated place? Who? When will the security company or someone authorized or a veterinarian be raised or I don't know who's going to come and fix it? These are questions that we need to discuss, and you're right to see what it is and what moments hunters can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85863	Thank you. Representative Klaric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85864	Dear colleague Djakic. You mentioned hunting traineeships and a provision related to the age limit. In most European countries, this age limit is as stated and we have already talked about it between 14 and 16 years of age, we had practice of those 16 years practically during Yugoslavia. I said in my debate that I started interning at the age of 16. So if we're talking about training for a hunter because hunting isn't just what most of our citizens think it's some kind of rifle and some kind of hunting ground to catch something but a whole series of programs and activities that hunters have to do. I personally believe that this age limit of 16 years is higher, and hence the prescribed period of traineeship, once for a year or two years, is very important in the education of this hunter himself and the association and the other members of the association, but also in the very knowledge of what it is to do with hunting activity. I note, by hunting activity, because hunting is not only a rifle and a shot, but a huge, huge job and a financial investment by a member of the hunter's association in that part of the activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85865	Thank you. Replica response, MP Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Klaric, right, you're right. So somewhere even in European countries and 14 and 16 years are age limits when a citizen can become a hunter and get a hunting card. Internship is the transfer of knowledge from older fellow hunters, getting acquainted with hunting, hunting, customs, values and most of the work of hunting, feeding gamers are the most present among interns with old hunters, hunters and others who have to work with them. So I believe that this remark will be included and accepted until the second reading so that our youngsters can be interns and hunters.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85867	Representative STazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85868	You told a respected colleague that the requirements of hunting associations should be respected until the second reading, but there is a request for hunters to be included in the list of species referred to as gamers, both wolf and lynx. That's what I think we should stand up to, the wolf should remain a protected species. I know that farmers often experience wolves as vermin because they do harm among their cattle, but this should be dealt with in a different way than they do, in damages, that state has to intervene. Well, we can't just shoot off everything that makes up some kind of damage to a peasant because then the species will disappear. This can't be a policy, so these requirements of hunters must simply not be respected. ... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85869	Replica response, MP Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85870	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Stazic, I don't see in the proposal of the Hunting Union no wolves, there's a mushroom jumper and there's another species they added, and that's Mungos, that's the species that are imported and that don't concern our habitats, etc. And that's what they suggested to enter the hunting economic base. The wolf is a protected species and remains that way in the law, I haven't seen these proposals of any association, this is the Hunting Union that has drawn up most of the law together with the Ministry of Agriculture harmonised it and here's what these two others suggest, but I don't think it's necessary because they need to be eliminated from the hunting grounds anyway because they're not the indigenous species.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85871	Representative Josip Krizanic also appeared for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85872	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. We are facing a long - awaited Hunting Law that should resolve a rather broad problem observed in hunting over the past ten years. It should also improve relations in breeding and protecting gamers with the aim of preserving game, protecting nature and improving hunting as economic activities as its connection with the activities of agriculture, forestry and tourism. In view of the first reading, this law will be seen in a public debate, but also in a parliamentary debate, much improvement in order to ultimately be as high-quality a law as possible and to bring the position of hunters and poachers on the one hand and farmers and private forest owners on the other. We have to say that hunting associations don't stand very well but they do care about the protection of game breeding, and in that part we have to have hearing when we're discussing, there's no colleagues from the HSS who have fallen under this law, so I'm sorry they won't be replicating them now, so there's a problem with hunters and an ever older population. So I'm going to say a few of my observations about the new law. Therefore, it is necessary to avoid the practice of the easy termination of the lease agreement of state and part of common hunting grounds because the practice is taking place that the hunting grounds are being leased and after two, three, they are being demoted and after 2, 3 years return to the owner or the State. Furthermore, hunting for common hunting grounds mainly in the one where the small game dwells would have to be minimal or none because care about breeding and keeping gamers and thus other species in nature have exactly hunters, and for this activity they should be rewarded in a way or have small tenants or that their hunts are abolished, which is on the verge of thinking in order to facilitate the business of companies in the lease of common hunting grounds which are still extremely difficult. The damages paid by poachers or hunting companies are increasing on a daily basis and exceeding millions. As a result, many poachers are facing bankruptcy because of road accidents, driving on a game or a game on vehicles. Since the case law is such that decisions are mainly made, decisions on the damages of the poachers. The damages are enormously high and are multiplely exceeding the level of the moneyshare, so many poachers can't even afford insurance after the analysis of the damage claims at the level of the Republic of Croatia we also proposed in the parliamentary procedure when it was the past law we talked about that it would be a good extra insurance from some 30 kuna per vehicle shelf, which would include damage to the game. This law is now trying to resolve part of the funding for the right to hunt where some 25 million state secretaries are spoken of, I ask you later to comment on it because that part is coming in and whether these allocations in the state budget will be sufficient, it is good if we do so, whether these funds will be sufficient to compensate for the damage to the roads. As far as the damage to agriculture is concerned, there are no gentlemen from the HSS, and I would like to comment with them, it is certain that this article is not best served, we secretary of state discussed it, I now appeal to you once again from this place, so he states that the damage has to effectively install his good and exorcise the savage, etc., because if he does not do so then he has no right to compensate for the damage. That is, such a provision is pointless. This should be changed because this article is inconclusive, nor will the damageor be able to build all these plots in Zagorje, regardless of what you said that it is only those who are located next to the forest,... There are 50 or 100 plots along the woods, so it is inconclusive to build in such a way, nor is it his business, nor is he in charge of exorcising savages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By that logic, the owner of the farm would have to watch out, he'd have to watch out for someone else's cattle if he didn't enter his farm, not the owner of the cattle, so that his cattle wouldn't enter another man's field. So that's kind of a logic. I ask again that question to you and to myself in which and whose fenced space and property would then dwell a savage if those parcels were fenced. So that's why we have to redefine that fence somehow differently. The free movement of pets, dogs and cats that cannot be closer, 200 meters from home is proposed. The law does not prescribe treatment in such cases. It's important to put it into the law because you don't know who's responsible for the dog in the hunting grounds, whether it's the poacher, whether it's the local self-government unit, or whether it's the owner. Especially if the dog isn't chipped, in which case, if it's found in the hunting grounds, we haven't defined who's responsible. Furthermore, if the dog finds himself in the hunting grounds longer then he becomes half wild because he has to take care of his own diet, so he hunts for food and that's what we have to define who's responsible for it. They are perfectly defined as the powers of hunters but we believe that they should be registered in the MUP system or otherwise ensure that they exercise their powers on the ground, given that hunters are not recognised as official persons or enjoy special protection of the law in their work. The law prohibits hunting for all game in a 300-metre zone belt which we consider inappropriate, uncontrollable breeding of foxes, kunas and plants, but the expansion of wild boars in that belt threatens to enter the same settlements and carry infectious diseases to domestic animals through which it is better spread to the population and populated areas within its catastrian borders do not rarely have a healed agricultural land, gardens, orchards with which that belt makes an additional natural environment in which the game breeds uninterrupted and moves without the possibility of carrying out and extermination of such areas become a hotspot of disease but also damage in settlements. Traffic in the vicinity of such areas is becoming high-risk, putting traffic users' lives at risk. So we suggest that this belt be reduced to 100 meters. The hunting activities are carried out outside the protection zone, and the 100m belt is defined as not a hunting area in the edges of the settlement at a distance of less than 100m to the nearest building inhabiting humans and animals. Special control and supervision of movements, migration and the numerous status of feral pigs should be carried out for the reasons that they are vectors and transporters of African swine fever but also the main verifier of damage to agricultural crops. Therefore, I welcome the fact that they are largely cut off from hunting except during pregnancy and youth leadership. Furthermore, I think it is good to allow hunting education, what my predecessors have said, and doing traineeship already at the age of 16 so that the Croatian Hunting Union can issue a hunting card to the person who passed the hunting exam at 18 years of age. The law also states that the minister can make a decision to reduce the state of certain species of game except birds, but especially for them if they do damage to ponds and waters. There is no mention of the enormous problem of crows that fall under this Law into savages, which have become regular residents in our cities and settlements that are extremely unpleasant and loud, and which do damage in agriculture, but also prey on small animals and birds. Their numbers have taken hold and it is certain that in the future this will be an ever-increasing problem that no relevant institution offers an answer. The intention of the Law is in principle good and in these adjustments that I propose until the second reading, it will be even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85873	Representative Prelec reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85874	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Križanić, here I have to admit to you I'm not a hunter, so then I can't speak exactly as you say. You're probably the hunter and colleagues who talked about it. But I'm talking to hunters in our area, and they say this law is good. That this law is good, that it went in the right direction, but clearly they also have some grudges. Some objections are primarily in what you said about the damage that hunters must pay to farmers, but also to those involved in traffic, means on vehicles. It's something that bothers them. We're always talking about most of them are hunters and hunters who have modest budgets, who don't have enough money, and then when such damage happens, they just get in trouble. Here, therefore, I ask there to find a solution from you who are more in this hunt than I am, to find the right solution so that hunters and hunting societies don't get in trouble by paying for the damage, and there is damage and there is a need to settle them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85875	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85876	Thank you, colleague Prelec. I was talking about this article that's now talking about solving road damage. I hope the secretary of state can explain that to us even more. We have already and then suggested that these damages be dealt with in some other way with about 20-30 kunas from vehicle insurance. The bigger problem remains for all of us to deal with the problems of agriculture. I don't think we've found a quality solution to this and this item that's talking about solving damage in a way that limit the surfaces de facto, is not a solution and we can't do that. It's clear we can't do that. We need to see if these are repellents, the enhanced division of these Republics, they gave it some kind of fence that doesn't cost too much. Now there are gentlemen... That they cost those fences a lot, that there's batteries, that it's loaded, that it's a pretty demanding job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That part about solving the damage we're going to have to do in some way, I don't think that's the happiest solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85877	Representative Klaric reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85878	Dear colleague, when you were talking about road damage, I think this proposal in the law is the most optimal solution at this time that it can be. In my opinion, the final solution will be when every one of us who manages the vehicle when we register the vehicle will be able to secure our own vehicle that way. And as for court practice, savages should be some sort of... So someone who doesn't have a owner as long as she lives. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I personally have a verdict in my city where the court ruled that a savage under the law, or a dog was under the Law on Mandatory Relations, a dangerous thing owned by a unit of local self-government, and by that judgment we had to pay a million and 500 thousand kuna to traffickers. So, court practice is one thing, life is another thing, and this is the most optimal solution I could see and support such a provision where the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport finally...... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85879	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85880	Comrade Klaric, I agree with you. I was just asking the secretary of state to explain the mechanism to us precisely if the 25 million we're talking about right now would be enough to settle the damage on the roads. I have no calculations on how much damage they've been to the Republic of Croatia so far. I'll be the luckiest guy in the world if we can solve that problem. The second option remains the one we've discussed so far. If that's not enough, to fence 5, 10 or 20 kuna in registration, it wouldn't be too much of a problem for anyone, and we'd all be more satisfied because if we have a problem that we can't solve in court disputes, then we're trying, we're not satisfied with either the hunting association, nor the local self-government units, and neither are we who have any damage to vehicles. I'm still saying that part will be relatively well resolved. However, I think there is still a problem with resolving agricultural damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85881	Representative Strick called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85882	Thank you. Col. Križanić, in your debate, you cited the problem with the fences. In northern Croatia, for example, when we talk about the Varazdin County, the size of agricultural parcels is only 0.16 hectares, and the law states that the owner of the agricultural plot is obliged to properly fence his plot to have the right to compensation means that it is due to savages. And now, if we literally interpret and if every farmer goes to fence their plot, we literally come into the situation that everything is fenced, so the question is where this savage will dwell, feed, move, walk, grow, etc. Therefore, I think that provision should be made more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85883	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85884	Thank you, I've talked about it before. The legislator, Mr. Secretary of State, has explained what this is about, is not the happiest described in the law, it will certainly be an explanation by the second reading because every particle that points to the forest with its narrow work should be practically built by the individual owner, no one here now clearly thinks that each particle should be fenced separately,... Because normally in that fenced area, then they would practically live wild animals and be owned by that property, not hunting associations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the mechanism of this article is not best done and I am sure that the Secretary of State will take it into account, that for the second reading, we will be given a better understanding of this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85885	Thank you. The next representative who applied for individual participation in the debate is Representative Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85886	I'd like to thank the Vice President, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. So today, we have before us the first reading of the Hunting Law that has more than one aspect of it than in compliance with Council directives. We are really dealing with one key problem here because we know that the aim of this law is of course to ensure sustainable management of hunting and game and, of course, taken into account all the administrative barriers that we face both those who reflect hunting sites, hunters, and agricultural producers who have direct damages, as well as ordinary citizens who only drive on the roads near the hunting grounds themselves and are at risk. When we talk about hunting grounds, as far as I've been able to see about road hunting, there are 28 in Croatia, of which 14 in Slavonia and Baranja, so half. So that's some topic that maybe I'm not a hunter, I don't know on that side, but I know what like every other citizen faces problems, or potential dangers. We're here talking all the time about compensation for damages and I think it's well settled here by increasing the fees that are just providing hunting grounds, that there's nowhere to charge the damage, of course it's just one part. We are not talking about road safety itself because I think it is primarily about the safety of passengers themselves. What if, by taking out the wild game on the road, avoiding it hides a car accident? It's not a direct blow to the game, it has to prove it, don't give God any consequences. We need to think more when we talk about these fences, not only about the damage to agricultural cultures but also about transport, because prevention is actually the best way to measure. We should have insurance because, most often, thank God, they're not accidents with severe physical consequences, don't give God and life dangerous, and that material damage is always present, but I'm sure there were others in our history. And that's why we have the prevention that's crucial, and then we're talking about the consequences. When we talk about the consequence, this is a good solution because we didn't have a number, we heard here today, I also said in the opening statement on the replica, at the opening presentation of the Secretary of State that many associations that master the hunting grounds unfortunately go after long-term proceedings and bankruptcys and then we stay in one air-free space. What's also good here is that it reduces the minimum number of hectares or surfaces from 1,000 to 500 ha when we talk about private hunting grounds, and it also enters all these legal provisions, insurance opportunities and everything else because when we talk about hunting grounds, we need to know that it's an extremely large potential in economic terms, primarily tourism, it's tourism with high added value, meaning it's not someone who's met with this branch of tourism, when we talk about very high prices, we're not just talking about equipment that these hunters are 1000 and 1000 euros, but also about what they're paying for driving both abroad and here, for professional and guided hunting tourism so there's a really wide spectrum that we're doing here. Of course, what we can say is that it's good to transfer a kind of decentralisation, that the powers that used to be, give more to local self-government units so that they can react just faster, better, than three state apparatus, because of course who'll know better than the ones in the county, you want the municipalities where the hunting site, where the space is happening or the damage to agricultural crops, cultures or road traffic. So even though I've heard some remarks here about these fences, I believe that there's space since we're in the first reading, that this is more appropriate, let's say more specifically it might be determined or put a general definition because this is exactly what's leading us to prevention. This law solves the damage well but we need to think about prevention, so it is not enough just to say it is secured so there will be compensation for those who have suffered damage if all assumptions are fulfilled, of course, here a little bit is arranged and it is necessary to report it in a timely manner, etc., etc., which, of course, I welcome that you lead to a more transparent way of addressing the problem or damage when it occurs, but again I repeat the preventance. So because sometimes really damage isn't even material anymore, just to get a man's head out alive and then talk about safety, and then it's a little bit more serious. Here is the conclusion, I think, that these few things that I mentioned, drawn from the bill are crucial and that in this direction we should think both economically and touristically as a great potential, to develop here, to lean on and that the Ministry of Tourism and HTZ, together with agencies and together with offices in the county, are certainly better organised, not that there is, but surely it is one great potential, hunting tourism and, of course, that this law will make even better assumptions for its better use, especially when we talk about damages and all, the consequences that can come out of it. I think it's well addressed here, but I only appeal to one more if there's something else that can be done at the level of prevention, that absolutely is done, because I think it's the key, both in everything and in traffic, and in this prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85887	Thank you. Slaven Dobrović answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85888	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Curaj, in your performance you mentioned prevention, when you referred to major damages, especially in traffic and you mentioned embezzlement, so now I don't know if I understood correctly, and you think that the solution would be to build roads from free space to move animals, yes, and you really meant it. And if that's the case, then you probably know there's a problem with the migration of savages, or animals, so there's probably a very big new problem. So please, if you can explain that.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85889	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85890	My colleague Doberevic, I thank you for asking. Prevention one is mentioned here in the same thing we can pull parallel with what's mentioned to protect agricultural crops that people limit their parcels, it's in the sense of that prevention. As far as I'm concerned, I'm aware of the roads themselves, that we can't process all the roads in Croatia, I think it's absolutely clear, but there are other ways of exorcising animals, not that their regular migrations are being prevented, to actually prevent, of course, when we talk about road traffic, you always have that triangular warning triangle on the road. Few people take it seriously until one day it happens. So a lot more things can go to education and to self-sustaining hunting grounds. Of course, somewhere it is necessary, where are express roads, then also building, but not all, I think it's very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85891	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Damir Felak reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85892	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. I had the need to report for a debate under this point of adoption of the new Hunting Law, first of all, offered by, in my county of Koprivnica Cruise, but knowing the situation throughout Croatia, the big problem is the damage, which is done by game on agricultural crops. And I can tell you that we hardly have a single session of the county assembly that we're not finishing without talking about it. First of all, he thinks of the damages that make the wild boars but also the other game, and there's such damage that people are already completely desperate and they don't know what they'd do. In part, this law tries to solve this problem, and in its articles of 76-82 it is said of it. There's already a lot of talk here about these famous fences, I think it would. In 79, it should be specified what damage should be done, how effective it should be, how it could effectively build up good, and that, if damage occurs, it could report this damage, because this is how it turns out that the burden of protection of the agricultural area is now being transferred to the owner of the agricultural area, that is, the potential damage, even if I don't think it's the law's intensity, but in this article, if it's literally interpreted, it's kind of coming out. Also, I think what's already been said, but in art. 81st, if there were no compensation for the damage the savage has done, I think the first point would be... should be a little precise, if the damage is less than 5% of the total value of agricultural production, on which surface? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if it's out of 5% of what I don't know, some big surface, and in the smaller part, damage is done, then clearly they won't have the right to compensation for the damage. I also agree with those who have said that forest and forest land cannot be excluded, that there is no compensation for the damage done in the forest and forest land, I think it should somehow formulate it, because it can be huge damage and simply forest owners, whether it is a private forestowner, cannot be removed from those who could report such damage. It mentions unencumbered multi-year plantations. I also think that this should be better explained, because the building of several-year crops, especially on larger surfaces, requires large additional costs for those who own such plantations and the general concept of these fences should be explained, whether these shepherds are enough, whether that is enough just some sort of tape, as we are told on the Committee on Agriculture or whether these must be solid fences. Because we know that a wild pig doesn't recognize these little fences, that only very strong fences can possibly prevent wild pigs from entering some kind of agricultural area. And that's where you'd pick up that one again, refer to that problem. I don't think we take it seriously enough and that an action plan should be made, though, it seems to me that 54th of this law tells me that it is. In 67, it is also possible to give the minister's order, to carry out an increased shooting of certain species of savages, and I think that should be done as soon as possible, especially in those areas where these damages are very pronounced, because simply people don't have time to wait for something to be regulated. And some, we have to say, certain hunting associations, simple or hunting tenants, are simply not equipped enough or do not have enough will to reduce the numerous state of game. When it comes to prevention here, much has been said, but I think the best prevention is to reduce the number of savage states to a reasonable measure. On that same point, but I think that should really approach it seriously and strengthen the shooting of those savages that protects the great damage and bring to some normal state, then there would be a lot less damage and a lot less of these, we are essentially, by this law more solving some consequences, and we are not going into this preventive part that I should necessarily do. We're talking 65, 70,000 hunters, 1,100 hunting associations. The question is also how many of them are able to do some things, but I think with a good organization, a major shift could be made in this particular area. I'll also say two words about this hunting ban zone, which means 300 meters for settlements in the plains and the prigorje terrains and 200 meters in the hills. I agree entirely with those who would reduce that line to 100 metres because right now, what is happening is that in these areas there is a part of the game where no hunting can be done. The gamer felt it and remains in these areas and is doing great damage to the crops. From what I've heard, I haven't checked that information, but in Slovenia, that line is reduced to 70 meters. I think that by putting a limit of 100 meters, and what should be agreed with the MUP, but how many people have discussed and made such proposals here, I think they should be more flexible in their view that this is not allowed. Perhaps to prescribe some special measures and ways to hunt within 100 metres of the conditioned populated area, the border of the settlement to prevent much of the damage caused by the game. And one more thing, just so I don't repeat myself to someone who spoke before. So I'm saying one more time, the fences should define exactly what kind of fences they are, who's bound to set them up. I will commend, unlike some of the measures provided for in this Act, that the cormorant should be placed in a hunting game because the cormorant is doing huge damage to our waters, not only to the ponds but also to the rivers, streams and lakes. Some species of fish disappeared because the cormorant ate them. And various associations, fishing associations, hunting associations have asked for something to be done and I think this is a good measure. Whether it is in line with an EU directive, I hope that we will reduce the number of cormorants to a satisfactory measure before a ban comes from Europe, so we will help restore both the fish fund and everything else. Because we can't look at just one kind of game that makes damage to other living beings and say, we protect her, and then what about all kinds of fish and everything the cormorant destroys. And what I was going to say, one question or maybe a remark. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In 96, which speaks of punishments for a hunter, if he doesn't do his job properly, you've put a range of fines between 3,000 and 70 thousand I think it's a mistake, or at least I guess because there's no such large range of penalties in any of the other articles where you have, where the ranges are usually 5-15 thousand etc. This range of fines of 370,000 kuna is by me, where and where too large and too high in this section. I guess that's where it was supposed to be from 37,000 kuna. Here, as one remark. That would be all of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85893	The replica was reported by MP Lipošchak.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85894	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Felak, you mentioned the article several times in your discussion. 81st and his provision not to compensate for the damage done on forests and on forest land. You said yourself that it should be defined differently. I personally think, not that we should perhaps define this differently, but that perhaps we should even devote an entire article of the Law to the particular damages of game in forests and forest land in which we would more precisely define both the types of damage itself and the area on which they occur. I will again underline what I said before, these are areas that are situated in the reconstruction, areas in which Croatia's forests, but also private forest owners are investing a lot of effort, time, but also financial resources to restore these areas naturally, and they are, in fact, the basis of what we need today, or sustainable management, and I fear that if we abolish this provision in the Law, we will open the door to many other situations that we would not like to have.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85895	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85896	Well, dear colleague, here's just a short answer. I agree completely with you, and you said this well. So, the damage done by game in the woods, forest land, is primarily on the rejuvenation, or surfaces that have been restored. Let's say, here's a particular meaning planted in young seedlings, there's a biting off of top buds, swallowing these seedlings, etc. And now there's a lot of damage. In any event, it should be made clear, first of all, on the areas where the company in state-owned or private-owned areas manages, that these preventive measures should be tried to protect that area, but if this fails, then somehow to the one who owns such an area of damage should be compensated in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85897	Representative Križanić reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Felak, you were talking about your debate at the county assembly about the damages of feral pigs. We talked about prevention here and there. So I'm wondering if you think given this provision of this law where it has now put down its powers to the mayor, that he can make decisions about so-called. an enhanced reduction of certain species of animals, where I think most of course of the wild boars, do you think that with such an enhanced shot you could take a step away because each mayor certainly knows his area best and knows best at which point to approve what quantities or quotas for the shooting and whether to use such a so-called so-called. By preventing the problem we could solve this part of prevention, which probably, I speak to the damage to agriculture, which we will probably not be able to solve with any fences or other bans.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85899	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85900	I thank my colleague Križanić, I think it is a good measure and a newspaper in the law, because I think the mayor can react much faster than just the ministry. It takes a lot less time to take such a measure. But it's not essentially prevention, it's curative, so that's where we solve something that we should have done before and through hunting economic bases and through an increased fire, not to multiply the amount of savages that do such great damage. But in any case, I think it's good and now you just need to see if these hunting societies, associations are able to execute such a shot in their area in the short term, if not, then you need to see the organization and if they need help and neighbouring hunting associations, but I think, in any case, that's good news in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85901	Representative Ivica Misic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85902	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Felak, you mentioned a lot of damage to agriculture and forestry in your presentation. We know that in agriculture, the greatest damage to real wild boars, we don't know that number. There are probably more of them, than perhaps should be and should be approved by fire, certainly excess, because in Slavonia the most damage is caused by wild boars, then in young orchards, too, it should be at County level to solve something, if there are less damage. If it's major damage, then go to the ministry. But it should somehow be arranged to be quick, efficient and that our farmers don't wait that long and don't have that kind of problem. Of course, there are accidents in traffic, and the colleague mentioned it well, that when registering part of the small money, for such damages, it would probably not be so expensive, but it would be effective and we would have a solution if we... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85903	Thank you. Time's up. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85904	Dear fellow Misic, and part of the answer, I think I gave it in the previous replica, so I welcome this paper in the law, that the mayor can make a decision on an increased shot, so it will be much faster than when it was requested to the ministry, and yet that trip lasted much longer. I hope so, I'm saying that hunting associations will be able to do it as soon as possible. And as for the damages that occur on the roads, that means that Article 30, which reroutes part of the funds and from which one fund should be created for this part of the payment of insurance policies, where hunting societies that are in big trouble, because the damages are quite large and have little resources, I think that will partially solve this problem. And this might be in the future, if the code, when each of us pays for the registration of the vehicle, paid 10, 15 kn more and covered the damage from the savages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85905	Thank you. Representative Klaric, reporting for the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85906	My dear colleague, Felak, you mentioned putting into some normal, numerous state of game in the hunting grounds. The normal number of wild game conditions is already prescribed in advance by the hunting base itself, where the number of species of game that can reside in a particular area is defined precisely, thus, and 50% of the total value and estimated after 10 years of lease, determines the initial price of the hunting lease in society. Here is the problem of each other, the problem is unfortunately due to, and fortunately because of the actions of people, which we have in the coast is the most obvious case, that we have more concentration of these same savages within the populated settlements, so that we have wild pigs, practically in the center of Crikvenica, bears in the Adriatic, and the greatest damage from car savages is right on the Adriatic magistrates between the Queen and Senj. Thus, this intensity and demand of the hunting alliance is that 100 m from the settlements, because there should be little respect for the configuration of the terrain or the environmental conditions that are there.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85907	Time, thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85908	Here, my colleague Klaric, I think we fully agree here, that border should be moved, I say, I think we should talk to the MUP there, that he should reconsider his negative opinion once again, because as explained to us, because of the interior ministry's stance, that border is not set at 100 meters. And you said well, now it's more questionable, that border than the settlement. We have animals coming to the settlements. And this is not only the case with you in the Adriatic region, coastal, coastal, but also on land, handcuffs, wild boars, and all that enters the settlement. I'm just afraid that it doesn't happen, God forbid what an accident a man, don't give God a death case, then suddenly we'll all start to wonder, and why we didn't remove those animals in time. I hope it's not going to be a trigger to get better solutions in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85909	Representative Strick called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85910	Vice President, your colleague Felak, you have devoted most of your debate to the very damages, the damage that savages do to agricultural cultures, and the damage that one kind of savages do to others. Here you have touched this 300-metre belt, where right now the largest number of such species of game, i.e., fox and crow pests, is now inhabiting, so if we are already talking about these 300 meters, I absolutely agree that it would be necessary either to reduce that belt or to enable how it would be possible to organize the hunt in those 300-metres and reduce b swarm of pests. Among other things, just as on Kalnik a year ago, other than crows, the foxes also appeared to be bricks that additionally do great damage to the game, such as noble savages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85911	Thank you for the reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85912	My fellow Uncle, I agree with you, here are some new species that appear every day. I know that we would all like to have, especially people who tend to protect nature as many different species in nature as possible, but we must be aware that all of these species or at least most of them do and harm. I was present when a beaver was introduced to Croatia 20 years ago, returned, introducted after I think that 100 years ago he was gone and today we put a beaver in a hunting game. Why? Because he's grown so much, there's no real natural enemy to do certain damage in the nature that goes to the heart of humans. It's the same thing now with the nail you mentioned. I saw a picture of an animal two days ago that even the great hunters can't determine what it is, whether it's a nail, whether it's a dog, whether it's a wolf or some kind of mixture between it. A lot of big animals that were caught the moment she attacked the deer, so the same thing does to other savages, and that's for sure to be prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85913	Representative Stazic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85914	You are a colleague who has taken up the destruction of the cormorant or the restriction of his population, the great crow, and he has indeed entered Article 8 here, which is actually the opposite of Article 7. A directive on the conservation of wild birds of the EU, which you probably don't know, but this is an example when politicians start to interfere in nature and think they're smarter than nature. You'd protect the fish from the cormorants, so nature would handle it on its own. You remind me of... who wanted to protect the grains, so he ordered the killing of the sparrows and then when they killed all the sparrows, the locusts who did 50,000 times more damage than the sparrows did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, I think that politicians should stay away from intervening in nature and be made smarter than nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85915	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85916	Comrade Stazic, I don't think you understand too much about this problem but you can easily share and document to everyone else whether they know something or not. The cormorants are doing great, huge damage and you can ask people who are dealing with any fish farming, any fishing associations, etc. And I'm not about how you said killing someone at least that word is a little bit in your dictionary but to reduce the number of those feathered savages to the extent that it can be the proper co-existence of humans and these savages as well as of all other species. So let's not mix politics into something that's clean, which is a purely practical thing and it's just a life thing. Come amongst the people who do you harm, and you will hear what they will tell you, and then you may change your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85917	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Peja Grbin reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Secretary of State. I am not particularly professional in the field of hunting and nature protection, so I will refrain from discussing these topics but I will talk about something that I have a lot of and personal experience as someone who comes from law enforcement, which is the part that relates to damages, especially the part that relates to damages caused by a car accident. I gave you a replica where I asked you to answer the question of what happened to the remaining damages. So I'll tell you what I told you now because you didn't answer me, I told you next. Therefore, Article 80, paragraphs 7 and 8 of this law regulated only two forms of damage. You've regulated the form of damage that occurs when an attack occurs because the driver did not comply with the provisions of the Road Safety Act and express orders on traffic signs and that's normal and that's fine. If you've been driving 100 an hour where there's a 50-hour limit and you haven't been able to stop when a deer, a wild pig, or something else is on the road, of course it's your responsibility and there's no slow about it. You also regulated the legal situation that arises when an attack occurs on the hunting ground, only on the hunting grounds, so not if the gamer comes out of the hunting grounds and only during the hunt. However, in the law you did not regulate the most common situation, which is the situation that arises when a vehicle is hit by a game at times when a driver adheres to traffic regulations and has not been hunting under way. You did not regulate this situation but referred to the application of the general rules of mandatory law, while neglecting the fact that you are thus coming into conflict with the Roads Act, which in Article 50, seems to me to be paragraph 2, says that it is responsible for the collision of a vehicle on a game on the principle of guilt. So we have a conflict. Because a savage who suddenly runs on the road is considered dangerous in the case of dangerous things again in court practice, according to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, according to the principle of holders of dangerous things, and in the Law on Roads, we have a provision that says it fits the principle of guilt. So we come to a conflict of laws that I think should be regulated to another reading because this is a serious problem. Why is this a serious problem? Because on the one hand, we have the right to drive on the road, which adheres to traffic regulations to be compensated for the damage that occurred to him without his guilt, which he could not prevent. Because if you have a limit of 80 per hour and you drive, for example, 70 km/h, and at that moment you have a big game trip, you won't be able to avoid it. We know if you've had a chance to read the art, etc., there's a time of reaction, after that time of reaction, there's a stop route. The best vehicles have a stop path to 100 meters somewhere 35 to 40 m of braking. So you can't stop before you run into a game that weighs 100, 200, 300 kg, the damage that occurs often leads to bodily injuries, fortunately not so often leads to deaths, I'll say it again, not so often. The other problem we have and why we have to solve this is the problem of the work of hunting associations. I received information from my colleagues in Istria from the Istria County Hunting Union. The Istrian County Hunting Federation has analysed that annually only in the Istrian County 300-thousand cases of vehicle crash on the game. Now watch the next numbers. In Istria we have 38 hunting associations, they have 4,000 members. On average, these members pay an annual fee, or a fee of 1000 kn, that is an income of about 4 million kuna. At the same time, we have a regressive claim of nearly 2 million kuna and is growing for this compensation of damage. So, when we reject the part that goes to the Croatian Hunting Union, hunting associations in the Istrian County are almost unable to cover the damages where they are asked to. In such a situation, and given that we are discussing this law, given that you have made your own proposals so that this issue should be resolved, I urge you to consider this situation by the second reading and to propose its resolution in a manner that is, in my opinion, the only correct one. And this is that the question of driving on a game, the question of compensation for that, is solved through the Roads Act, the Hunting Act and the Road Insurance Act. I believe that it is the right way to protect all citizens of the Republic of Croatia while at the same time enabling hunting associations to function, that through compulsory insurance that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are owners of motor vehicles must pay before vehicles go on the market, they regulate that one part of the premium applies to protection against the attack of a vehicle on game. Given that we have deregulated the insurance market, that car liability insurance in the past few years has been considerably cheap, such a fee that would not be in great amount where it would be only about 10 to 15 kn per annum, would not increase the cost to the citizens and would still guarantee to every driver in the Republic that it would be protected in the event of an attack on a game vehicle. In doing so, the common answer that I had the opportunity to hear in this House when we discussed this topic was let people go on helmet insurance. However, this is not the answer because car helmet insurance covers the damages caused by the vehicle but your helmet does not cover the damage that will, for example, be incurred by the driver. For this it is necessary to pay for another insurance, AO plus insurance and be careful now, in terms of AO plus insurance of some insurance houses say that the insurance is excluded from the damages that have not been caused by the driver's guilt. So, the driver who was completely protected, paid the helmet, paid the compulsory insurance neatly, paid the AO plus, if there was damage without his guilt, and I said that the situation was not covered by this, under the general conditions of several insurance houses in the Republic of Croatia will not have the right to compensation for which it is not guilty. Also, of these damages would be excluded, of course, by those caused by the driver's guilt, because if you are guilty of damage, you have no right to compensation unless you have been further insured, and the insurance companies would, according to my proposal, have the right to regress against hunting associations in the following situations, which is when the damage has occurred by guilt or by the extreme inconsequence of the hunting association because it cannot be excluded by hunting associations and in accordance with what you have proposed in this law and in accordance with the reasoning that you have given for this if the damage occurs at the hunting site during the hunt. I believe that this is possible in this way, I don't think that it would create too much cost for citizens and for all insurance companies, I think that this would make it easier for hunting associations to work, and the security they would guarantee for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be far greater than it is now. I've had a chance to meet people, talk to them and represent them who have suffered this kind of damage. When you listen to those stories, people simply couldn't avoid it. As a rule, these damages occur during the night when suddenly on you in a forested move trips out of the wild pigs, deer or something like that. You don't have time to react, and when you hit, you often have to prove after a problem because the animal has sometimes survived that blow, and the only thing you're proving is the traces of hair, blood, or so on on the vehicle itself. So my proposal is to solve this exactly this way and by then given the above, given the lack and since the proposed solution I hold that it does not correspond to drivers or hunting associations, it will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85919	Anka's representative Mrak-Taritash answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85920	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, you have opened up in your debate or continued the topic that has been opened by this law and this is the problem of the damage that has been done and now there is the essential thing. In any job you do, you can work sectorally and you can work integratedly. Sectorally, he just looks at every sector and doesn't look at the whole situation and the whole thing. You have pointed out here that it could be properly solved or tried to solve a problem that we all know exists that, apart from this law that is currently in the debate in the first reading, changes should be made in other laws. And it seems to me that your debate should look that way, and until the second reading, it's also an appeal to the secretary of state that maybe with other resolutions he sits down a little bit and sees what the best way is because this law is starting to get into trouble, but it hasn't been resolved until the end, and the question of whether this law can be done with all that you've stated and solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85921	Replication response, representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues. Unfortunately, a decade ago, a real drama took place in the event of an accident. In a year or so, we had three changes to the law where the ball was transferred between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Agriculture, so by one law where the road lobby prevailed, everything was transferred to hunting associations, another law pushed the Ministry of Agriculture's hunting lobby to go on the road. Finally, we found this compromise solution that we now have that connects that hunting associations must ask for a sign, respect for a sign... corresponds to a road, road answers if no sign is set etc. It's one balling that didn't lead to a systematic solution to the problem we're obviously having. And that is why I believe that this cannot be solved only by this one law and this cannot be solved by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport, Agriculture and Finance as the ministries in charge of individual resolutions that are all responsible for solving this problem must be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85923	Thank you. Representative Slaven Dobrović has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85924	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, I warmly welcome all distinguished colleagues and colleagues and proposing representatives of the ministry. So we had the opportunity to hear the report of the parent board, the Committee on Agriculture, and I now have to say that I am actually surprised by the fact that it was the only committee that discussed this law or on the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature did not have on the agenda this proposal for a law on hunting, although, of course, certain provisions concern both this committee and he would have a lot to say here. My performance is, here I will openly say motivated by an open letter signed by 29 experts and scientists who were sent to both the Minister and the Authority and I will now express here the main objections that are raised in this letter. So it concerns the fact that this bill extends the list of game hunters to some proven sides and invasive species. An invasive species is placed on the list of game hunters, which is proposed and defined, so hunting game is good of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and enjoys all protection, so this is an unusual welcome to the invasive species for which it is known, so these are species that create major difficulties or generate imbalances or directly endanger certain species in the eco-system and this kind of procedure violates the provisions of the Nature Protection Act and of the same competent regulation, the Regulation on the prevention and management, the introduction, the spread of invasive species by the European Commission and Parliament and the Council respectively. In particular, therefore, mongoose is included in the list of game hunters and we need to know that in 2006, this species is listed as those species that cause concerns in the Union. Another important species that is placed on this list is this law, a scrawny jumper, so it is an illegally introduced species into the eco-system of the Republic of Africa, which is definitely a hunting game, and deserves all the attention and protection of the Republic of Croatia, which is indeed one dangerous precedent. Of course, we have documents that show that you have a report from the European Commission that speaks i.e. document that this type of fungi jumper directly endangers six detached European species. So I think that this legislative proposal really needs to be corrected in this sense and these are not the only species, but my colleagues have mentioned, in particular, birds, so the species that are placed on the list that we know are hybridizing with certain indigenous species and creating a disorder in the eco system. There have been a lot of talk here about damages and damages, and it seems to me that the current form of the proposal is not going in the right direction, and I hope that the Proposer will very much consider the proposals that have been heard here and done this system. I will finish my presentation with something that is often forgotten, namely we need to know what game is, or even what we are talking about here, about a natural resource, that is, a renewable resource of the Republic of Croatia. We know that much of the area of the Republic of Croatia is covered by forests that represent the best habitat for game, and we should certainly strive for one solution that offers a sustainable use of this rich resource and I think that in such a arrangement, the problem that is caused would certainly not be a problem solved. Of course, there are many who enjoy certain advantages in the currently poorly organised system and who could lose a lot of things in the system's arrangement, but I believe that it is in everyone's best interest that the arrangement of the hunting system and the management of this rich resource of the Republic of Croatia is a goal and that, as such, it can be resolved, and I hope that, in the second step, we will have the opportunity to consider a significantly better proposal in other readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85925	Representative Bojan Glavasevic reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85926	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. Thank you for this consideration of my comment. So it's perfectly clear to me that here and most of the people who discussed the hunt today are thinking of some kind of economic activity, mostly not. But we're actually kind of spinning around in circles. In fact, that same big crow I mentioned mostly goes to the ponds because of the drying up of the wetlands of the original exactly for some economic purposes. So this is a real problem, but I don't think it is, that there really are better solutions than to expose Croatia to measures from the Commission. There's really no need for that. Some kind of holistic solution perhaps that, in line with the European acquis, I think we can really find here. Here, I think the whole debate has shown that there is no policy, but that it really is the profession of government. Here, clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85927	Replication response, MP Dobrović.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85928	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavasevic, yes, I agree, this very holistic approach is necessary and, of course, avoid any infringement of the right that makes no sense to go into it. I would draw attention therefore, let's not just look at the capacity of this eco system expressed in some pounds or heads or I don't know, the number of trophies, but there is the possibility of photo safari, or enjoying a rich eco system for those users who complete their experience with photography. So, of course, some good gastronomic offer that doesn't necessarily have to be a game in the local environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85929	Thank you. Representative Bojan Glavasevic has applied for individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, colleagues from the Ministry, as I noted in the introduction of my debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, there are, apart from those remarks that I have made, there are others to be talked about. First of all, they concern the regional self-government unit. There's a series of questions we'd like to ask here. This is the first reading of the law. I said what the club's attitude was about, but here. So, just to be said, you can hear these remarks as well. I'll read some of the things that were discussed. So one of the questions is why state and private hunting sites establish the minister as an executive body, while joint hunting sites are established by a representative body. The draft e-consultation removed the administrative obstacle, which has been warned by regional self-government units over the past 10 years. But the case was returned to the government in this draft. We'd love to hear it when there's an opportunity to explain it. Then, which led to the change in the percentage of the distribution of funds to landowners without hunting rights, which ultimately has a significant impact on the budget of regional self-government units. The current Law and the draft e-consultation stipulates that the regional self-government units, which did not seek the owners of the hunting rights, will spend on the compensation for the insurance of the hunting grounds, while this draft also prescribes it in the section relating to the ministry's income. It is unclear on the basis of which information has led to the fact that hunting insurance management is better through the ministry as a central body than through regional self-government, when it is clearly known that the intensity of the damage is not the same in all counties. One more question. How will the ministry implement insurance and with the intensity of the funds? How much damage has been paid in the past 5 years by savages and in which parts of Croatia are critical points. Unofficially speaking about the amount of an insurance policy of 25 million kuna per year, and then the question is whether any cost-effectiveness study of such access to insurance was made. If this amount is correct, it is an amount of over 2 million kuna per month, and that amount is enough to employ about a hundred young experts with a gross salary of 20 thousand kuna. Therefore, why the same article prescribes the obligation of the regional self-government unit to spend the funds collected under this draft on the compensation of game damage in joint hunting sites not under contract, provided that the preceding paragraph is prescribed that the ministry provides hunting grounds. Does that mean that insurance will only cover a particular group of poachers or just state hunting grounds? In part of the basic issues to be regulated by the Law, it states that part of the counties' competence is increasing, but the overall content of the draft clearly states that the counties were given part of the job that was in the ministry's exclusive jurisdiction, but that the competence in the implementation remained with the Ministry. In this draft, as well as the draft which was on e-consultation, there was a clear lack of part of the supervisory work that would allow the county's administrative and professional supervision of the implementation of the contract, as far as we know, the Croatian Community of County. Next question. Why was the inspection obligation to inform the donor of the rights of the hunt on the surveillance carried out? According to earlier information, the regional self-government units have not been informed as beneficiaries of hunting rights in the past 10 years of any observed irregularities or of the controls carried out in general, which have been notified by the Ministry which in the draft e-consultation has incorporated the provisions on the notification obligation. This draft has put it out again and has allowed the inspectors to evaluate on their own. How do units of regional self-government know who's a good master in their hunting grounds if the law doesn't allow them to exercise supervision of any professional, any administrative and inspectors don't inform them of the observed irregularities? So, I wouldn't be longer, I'm saying this isn't my most basic expertise, but some questions here have been asked, and here it says, I can't say that our impression isn't that the counties are actually committed, but they're more responsible, but there's no right to control, they've been deprived of significant funds, and they've actually been disabled from monitoring the quality of management. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85931	Representative Lenart has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85932	Thank you. Dear fellow Glavasevic, I listened to your esteemed debate, you saw that part about pets, dogs and cats that can't be 200 meters, and now you think I have a pet Vietnamese pig and goes 200 meters into my hunting ground? And we haven't listed her in this law, and that pig could put confusion in that hunting ground and probably not be able to do any damage, so this law should define some things since we keep these pets out in the country so they can walk around, dogs, cats and even some of my neighbors have a real Vietnamese pig walking around. I think this law on this matter needs to be completed and there are a lot of gaps that need to be really well thought out and installed inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85933	Replicate response, Representative Glavasevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This isn't a fellow Lenart, a question of some kind of laugh, but don't mind if I make a little fun of it. Your question about the hypothetical Vietnamese pig has a pretty clear answer. You know how hungry the Croats are, we've been through both war and poverty and hunger, I'm afraid the Vietnamese pig would end up like most other pigs here in sausages, bacon, if that variety is etc. What can I tell you, it's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85935	Representative Vlaovic reported for individual participation in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85936	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate. Yes, hunting in Croatia has a long tradition and here I am using the opportunity to welcome about 65,000 hunters in Croatia and I wish that through the implementation of this law in Croatia and I believe that all of us hunters will be not 65 but more hunters in Croatia, that all these associations that exist will live. It is also the hunters and hunting associations that expected this roof hunting law that has significant importance for the Republic of Croatia, to preserve biodiversity, to preserve nature, to live with nature, which is what our people and hunters have always lived for. Today our situation is that very young people decide to become hunters, the situation is that a large number of associations have been blocked and threatened to stop active activities and become these associations, and that is why this law was expected to address the key problems of hunting, financing, repairing the damage and management of hunting sites, because the fact is that so far the law, which is different from the court to the court, has treated the damages of savages on the roads, has brought many associations into a situation that they are blocked, that they cannot pay their obligations. There are courts that went immediately to the burden of hunting associations and there are judicial decisions that went on that road is not part of the hunting grounds, that the savage as such and the poacher could not manage it, and then it ruled at the expense of car owners. This proposal for a law where words are headed through insurance policies is a dissatisfaction with hunting associations, especially when we see that it has given up the proposals that have been made by the county community, the regional self-government has been referred to in an e-public debate where part of the funds that were income from regional self-government is now being transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Finance or the State Budget with the aim of building a common policy, it is already mentioned somewhere in the assessment of the value of around 25 million kuna, so the question is whether one analysis of cost-effectiveness has been done at all, whether this will be sufficient and also exist in the hunting associations which have managed the common hunting grounds established by the county, the fear that this part of the funds they will not see, that this policy will not cover their hunting and damage in their areas, so here they are looking for clarification, why it gave up that the first proposed model, why it was set out in the change of Article 30. On the other hand, we bring down both the rights and the greater obligations to the counties that must establish common hunting grounds that most counties have done, must evaluate the hunting grounds, give consent to them, control the implementation of hunting grounds and issue additional hunting permits if there are claims due to excessive numbers of game and due to damage to agricultural cultures and damage to traffic. So we bring down rights and more obligations and we take away their funds, so the question is, what are the counties going to cover because most counties are going to have to hire additional people in management departments either for the economy, or for agriculture, depending on whose jurisdiction is hunting in a particular county, so here's the question why did it go this way? And in particular, they are dissatisfied that the hunting inspector is self-initiatively overseeing the implementation of hunting economic bases, the control of the legitimate operations of hunting associations, and that there are certain records and reports to the ministry, and there is no obligation to notify the counties or the competent administrative department in whose jurisdiction is this? Why did it give up and ask for it to be returned that as the county, the competent management department would control whether a hunting association was in accordance with the law implementing the Hunting Act and the hunting economic base if there was no information from the inspector whether what had been done properly was done? So we're asking for that part to change, and I'm sure that's not good. And what is the biggest statement by HSS, which has already been made by my colleague Lenart on behalf of the club, and I will now repeat that neither the Hunting Act should be at the expense of hunting and hunting associations but should be a tool for the development and progress of hunting, but it must also not be at the expense of agriculture or agricultural producers. This proposal shows that agricultural producers are left to themselves, that they must build their own particles, the parcels they have on 100 of their own, and that it is impossible to fence all the particles, that it is impossible for the agricultural producer to be professional enough to assess whether the fence, whether it should be repellent, whether it should be evicted, whether another of the measures that have been taken and who will tell him what measures it has taken, which should be carried out and how it will compensate for the damage if it is not clarified more precisely, and also the Commission for the assessment of the damage. There was the biggest problem in the field, and there are also a lot of court disputes, and I don't think even this bill has resolved it quite clearly, precisely, because often these commissions, which were composed of representatives of the hunting authorities and representatives of the landowners, have not been compromised, but have always been slowed down because the hunting association is trying to reduce the damage and pay less, and the owner of the land, you have to understand him and his emotional approach, that this is not only lost profit and income but has destroyed his own. And according to our Constitution, the property is untouchable and its inalienable right and that corn and that wheat and that barley is its right and its property. Come on, and you're a fellow Secretary of State hunter, Mr. Secretary of State, come see the barley now as well as the tooth where the wild pigs have passed, and the commission estimates the damage is 10%. You in law here say if the damage is more than 5% of total income. What total arrival? This was also an observation from the associations of agricultural producers, more than 5% of the yields and revenues on that parcel must be specified, not on the overall income of the CAP, which could be interpreted from such a bill and should be corrected and specified by second reading. And especially since a large number of associations especially for state hunting grounds have extended the contract with the ministry, and they have not equated damage to agricultural producers and you know it, secretary of state. Why was that done? Who's he protecting? Private tycoons that were probably campaign donors, so they had to. There's a I know I can give you the data, I won't be here in public, but you certainly know what kind of hunting associations they've managed were conditionally speaking to the state's hunting grounds, which allowed millions of damage to agricultural cultures, did not settle the damage to the agricultural producers, and their contract was extended, even though there was even a finding by the inspector in charge that the contract should be terminated. Now that's what's not supposed to happen, that's what creates an ugly picture of hunters and hunting, and it's not the hunters, it's that irresponsible owner who didn't settle the obligations under the contract and the law against the OPGs that border the hunting grounds or are even part of the hunting grounds. There we must be prepared to implement the law until the end or we will destroy this little hunt we have, and the hunting here will indirectly destroy that agricultural production because many agricultural producers give up seed in the edge areas... forests, precisely because they no longer know how to defend themselves against savages, and hunting associations or owners of these founders better say these associations have not reconciled the obligation to damage to agricultural cultures for years and judicial disputes are being conducted and until the court dispute is resolved simply by a simple man. There's nothing to settle the supplier for seed, for fertilisers or for fuel. There must be a more precise rule of law when it comes to the assessment, who goes, how much damage the table is on average compared to the yield and value of production and when payment is made because while he welcomes the court's solution, agricultural production can lock and sell everything he has, if he has anyone to sell, and there's no one left to buy. Half of Slavonia and other underdeveloped areas are written for sale, for sale, for sale of the entire estate because people gave up production. Hunting and agriculture must go together, compromise must be found, and until the second reading should be discussed with all agricultural associations, with the Agricultural Chamber and found a solution. I am a hunter and I like to hunt, and I love farmers and agricultural producers, and Croatia should love agriculture as well as the strategic branch, and food production is a strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia. Take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85937	A representative of the Dark-Taritash responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85938	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague. In one part of your exposure, you touched a topic that I think is extremely important, which is decentralisation. So this is one in a series of laws that we have where we're talking about additional jobs coming down from a state level to a regional level or a local level, but it doesn't adequately monitor financial decentralisations. If one of the laws that makes it possible to achieve this is one of those laws. So it's absolutely about hunting grounds, it's about them being in the territory of certain counties and certain municipalities and cities, and if this is what the government wanted to do in this sense to make an effort and say that we are the government that is responsible, we want to decentralisation whether we all agree on it, but when the bill of any law comes, every law speaks of increasingly centralised and increasingly less about decentralisation. And this could be one law, which could even be seen, which is what it is and how it is possible to accomplish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85939	Thank you, reply to the replica representative Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85940	Thank you, Vice President. counterparts of Anka Mrak Taritash, you are right, this is only an attempt to decentralisation, but again in the wrong way or to the harm of regional self-government, because their rights and obligations are coming down, and they are taking away financial resources, which is certainly not good and the aim of the law will not be achieved to speed up the decision-making process. I welcome the decision and it is a good tool to speed up the decision-making of hunting grounds, the decision-making and the validity of hunting grounds, the need to give consent to the increased fire of certain savages, if it is too numerous, but all these jobs need to be paid and paid for and out of something. Then you can't take their county money if you give them those obligations. It is therefore not good, because we know that the number of inhabitants is shrinking, that the real spread of savages is expanding and that the damage is getting bigger and bigger, and that it will certainly be a lot of demands, the ministry has been elegantly rid of this pressure, because they have had strong objections from the field and a large number of requests for additional shot savages, and then you legally bring it down to the counties, but without money. There's a cat in your bag.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85941	Thank you. Representative Marko Vesligaj answered the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85942	Thank you, Vice President. Here, my colleague, I'm glad you mentioned hunting societies in your debate. I consider them personal real enthusiasts, real people who, who want to protect nature through their work and often talking to them, tell me sometimes people respected us a lot more when we came to the village, but unfortunately today they don't. Why is that? Well, it's exactly what you said in your replica, because of these bad, unspeakable laws. We didn't do anything, actually, through this law, and in the end, it turns out that no one is satisfied with it. Not satisfied counties, as units of regional self-government are not satisfied with hunting societies, are not satisfied with the damages, unfortunately happening, which have damage to their agricultural crops etc. I think that these laws, and often come to the Croatian Parliament, should not be passed at all, not even at first reading, and not that we have to fix them later, at least in some direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85943	Thank you for the reply to the replica, MP Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85944	Thank you. My colleague, I will repeat once again that the law is well written to help hunt and need it, all hunters in the hunting gang expected much of this law. But, of course, now through my debate, I wanted to warn you that there is a series of shortcomings and that if it is not implemented and is not implemented equally, then ineffective and that we will not achieve the goal we want, to raise hunting, because it is a possible and important economic branch, especially if we are talking about hunting tourism. But they must all be equal in front of the law. This agricultural producer must also receive his benefit for game damage, and the hunting association must have the opportunity to function. I'm afraid with this way, that the money to the state, and the damage to the county and family farms, we're achieving a counterproductive effect. Money in Zagreb, and wild pigs in corn near Željko. And who's gonna pay for the damage? You know, peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85945	Thank you. For the final word, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture Zeljko Kraljevicak will address. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85946	I would really use the opportunity in this closing statement to thank all those who participated in the debate and indeed today you have opened one important topic, the Hunting Law, and all the problems we have when we have to implement the law, when we have to live in one space, and when we all have to show largely that part of the responsibility to do that part of the job that the law provided for in both poachers and owners of agricultural land and state and ultimately regional self-government units. I really don't see, in which part of the law, it is stated that the incomes of regional self-government units are reduced, when in the current law they had 10% of the income, and 10% of the revenues now have according to this final bill. If you're talking about landowners, who have the right to compensation, it's something that in this final bill, it's supposed to become the incomes of the Ministry of Agriculture, to solve one very important thing, and that's what you've been saying in the debate today for three hours, and that's the question of how to reduce the damage of savages to vehicles and who's going to pay for the entire risk. Today we have said what the amount of this aggregate result, what the value of these damages would be and I think Mr. Peja Grbin, the parliamentary representative was the closest that it was 10-15 kn per vehicle on 2 million vehicles, is between 20 and 30 million kuna. Today, we can speak in Croatia that no government, no ministry has made an effort to achieve technical results, that at the level of the Republic of Croatia, it can be determined what amount of walk is monitored in several years. This ministry and this government will do it. That's why we've provided financial resources, but we've made it very clear, which is the responsibility of the farmers themselves. Here, because of all of you and perhaps because of the information you don't have, but hunting associations are faced with the processes and the fact that 30.10. reported damage to the corn. A court expert was brought in and filed a lawsuit and charged 100-200 thousand kuna to the hunting gang, who didn't know that at one point there was damage on the property of someone who owned it. The law prescribed that it was 7 days and that the owner had to report damage to the hunting association, if he did so, so he did all the legal actions so that he could ask the poacher for damages. The owner must implement measures that will reduce or reduce the damage to agricultural cultures. We also made it very clear what is the responsibility of all these participants in the process of implementing the Hunting Law. The greatest risk when you talk about decentralisation, that we have allowed jurisdiction to units of regional self-government. Because they can react much faster if one damage occurs on agricultural crops that the stamps, the extra gunshots, are issued within 3-5 days and prevents the continuation and increase of the damage itself that will result in this hunting ground. But you know what the process that ends today is, and that's the question that those hunting grounds that were founded, established the districts of the assembly or the county, if a poacher is lost, and we usually lose him because he can't pay off the financial damage on the basis of a final judgment, he goes into blockade and liquidation, then the county budget pays off all the damages that will be incurred both on the road and on agricultural crops. And that is why it is also in the interests of the Ministry of Agriculture and the counties to arrange this process to speed up and make a quality way of communicating we issue certain approvals and solutions in order to reduce the damage itself. We've asked all hunting associations to realise their plans with hunting grounds shot to death by the 8th month when it comes to wild boars. Not only because of the damage, but also because of the monitoring of the condition and in some way of preparing and protecting our space from the outbreak of African swine fever. We have done everything to give to all those who are in the process and the Ministry of Agriculture and the counties and the poachers and ultimately the owners of the agricultural land certain obligations and responsibilities, but also the chance that if they have done all that the law requires, they will finally receive a fair compensation. And that there is no judgment and compensation that will be granted to the damages does not go according to frequent court practice, that there is always a hunting society responsible for traffic because gamer is a dangerous thing, whose game is state-owned, and by contract of right of hire and concessions has been transferred to the poacher and thus the overall responsibility. I think that through this part of the Law we have very clearly and precisely determined certain exceptions that will protect everyone involved in this process. I thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85947	Mladen Madyer's representative has come forward for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85948	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, in our debates today we have heard a lot about the problem of foxes and wild boars that are getting closer and closer to the settlements. We know there's a fire ban in the inhabited area. And then, on the question of many units of local self-government, the Ministry of Agriculture is actually giving an indication that units of local self-government are building a program for the protection of savages in their area. And then there's the problem. When a unit develops a game protection programme in its area, it does not get consent from the MUP because of this, the MUP does not allow shooting within 300 metres. And we didn't actually do anything, and local self-government units, clearly when they bring in the program, they have to pay for it. They do it, they don't get consent from the M.O.P., and we haven't done anything yet. Just damage to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85949	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85950	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As the promoter, I am talking about the damages of game, of course, that it should be regulated by legislation, damages on agricultural land. However, we have major pests on the farm, these are import lobbies. So everything, all the game on the globe to let her go to the Republic of Croatia wouldn't do any damage to how much import lobbys have done. And the damage is an example to you that only in the last year is 81% of imports of milk more. Therefore, I would like the Ministry to have fun with this game law, to solve hunters and protect agriculture, but no more agriculture, no more farmers. So here, 135 thousand, 135 percent of the cheese we import more. We don't have a pig at all. We import 10 billion kunas because of these vermin, which are per ministry, are suitable for import lobbys. That's the problem. These are more pests than anyone, gentlemen my dear representatives, of all wild animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85951	Thank you. Answer. A representative of the Dark-Taritash responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85952	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, another topic has been opened through the debate, and this is the topic from the aspect of nature protection. Since the Law is in the first reading, it certainly seems to me that it was instructed that for the second reading, regardless of not being a parent working body, but is interested in the Committee on Environmental Protection and Nature. But also, in cooperation with the restrictive ministry, it should also define some things because, of course, in terms of sustainable development of nature, it does not know the limits, does not know the fences and does not know the changes that are, and changes are great. The growing emigration of people with reduced agricultural surfaces is becoming, in fact, areas that are unedited, and behind that are transformed through the process into forest surfaces, and when you compare, from the 1970s to here, which was the agricultural surface, and what is today, you see big changes, and in this sense, you certainly need to do with the rest of the ministry a little bit of strengthening certain things.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85953	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85954	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I've prepared myself for this debate and here, I've checked. It was in public consultation that the county would be able to make 50% of those funds that were not requested by the owners within a year, and now in this Bill's proposal there is 10%. So it went down, and that's the objection of regional self-government, and that's what I asked. Why, who made the decision and we're asking for it to be back by the second reading. Because if we're already putting down our commitments and we're putting down our commitments to the county, I accept that this is a need for faster decision-making, for the establishment of a hunting ground, for the confirmation of... The basics, the answer to the demands of hunting associations to follow the reinforced shot and everything else, then it's their turn to have regional self-government and incomes from which they will be able to finance it, so you can't deny me when it stands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was an e-indication 50%, and now it's 10%, so it's downgraded. And here we have data from Koprivnica-Kryzevci County in 2016 where there were 194 runs, in 2017. 201. So it can only be calculated if we try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85955	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85956	Thank you, Vice President. Two things are a shame, we know very well when the damage occurs, whether some hunting societies have a commission that doesn't want to work adequately. After that, one who wants his or her own damage must provide evidence that costs each one of these farmers, but unfortunately this is the only way to determine some real damage and most of this is followed by a long trial. But what about these damages is that I am angry and it is in no way good for farmers to get the obligation to build up, to place their repellents on many of their surfaces. These people have too much to do and they have to do hunting work. Why don't they try to build these crops and see what that means and materially. I should have two employees keep it in order as required by the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85957	That concludes the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85958	Proposal for a Hunting Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 339 is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion, firstly, the proposal of the Hunting Law, second all objections and proposals will be submitted to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes 76 for, 6 abstentions, 42 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85959	The following point is: - Report by the Advocate General for 2017. Law on the Advocate General, Article 12. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 (OJ L 298, 21.7.2013, p. 1). The Act on a National Prevention Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Demeaning Procedures or Penalty, Article 215. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and Article 39. Attorney General's office. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The government delivered an opinion. Does the applicant want to give an additional explanation? Yeah. The esteemed attorney general, Mrs. Laura Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85960	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected MPs and MPs. I would begin my address with a strong but very simple sentence that is older than all of us present here in the assembly. All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. These words united the world 70 years ago when a number of states were determined to prevent a repeat of the horrors of World War II from achieving a unique civilizational reach, which is that it was human rights that put the focus of thinking about the preservation of peace and the prevention of war. They did this, among other things, by creating a document that I just quoted, it's a UN General Declaration on Human Rights, which for the first time determines human rights as all innate because no one needs to earn them, universally because they're worth everything and inalienable, because no one can take them away from us. Half a century later, respect for human rights became one of the highest constitutional values of the constitutional order of independent Croatia and was an important condition in EU membership negotiations, a community based precisely on the values of freedom, equality, rule of law and respect for human rights. And while most countries of the world today guarantee the protection of human rights, none of them are completely unknown. Somewhere larger, somewhere smaller gaps between guaranteed and achieved, i.e. between the theory of experience remain obstacles and problems for many citizens from day to day and Croatia are no exception. That's exactly what we're talking about today. I hope that today's debate will focus on solutions as a contribution to the positive changes that citizens will feel in everyday life, in the workplace, in hospitals, in universities, in social care centres, in retirement homes, in classrooms where young people and girls and girls and girls will sit in your seats tomorrow, in other key places to create better living conditions in Croatia. I hope that we will just show them that we should remain in Croatia, however, which is a message that is often not heard during unstructured discussions that reach them through the media and on social networks. So every time before we stand in front of a microphone or keyboard, we need to think carefully about the consequences of what words can have on the individual and on the society of which public speech is greatly influenced. The report by the Ombudsman for 2017 contains more than 200 recommendations. According to the government, about a quarter will be considered, implemented or already implemented. Here are a few examples. The recommendation to review the legal regulation of the work contract for a certain period of time aims to prevent the abuse of these contracts, the government announced its implementation. More intense awareness of the procedures of calming is yet another recommended recommendation and could also affect the discharging of courts and the reduction of the long-term duration of the proceedings. Extending the criteria for the status of a threatened energy buyer could contribute to curbing energy poverty. The good news for many elderly people who cannot or no longer want to live in their home is certainly the announcement of a uniform, the introduction of uniform and transparent criteria for admission to older and powerless homes, which has been something we have advocated for years and certainly encourages the announcement that this recommendation will be fulfilled as well as for education of state officials on the prevention of discrimination, which should become a permanent test literature for passing a state expert examination. This was just a few examples that should affect stronger protection of human rights in Croatia and we should also look at these recommendations in the context of very negative demographic movements in Croatia because their implementation can help and positively affect the quality of life of citizens and create conditions in which each individual can provide himself and his family with decent conditions for life in which the quality of public service is available and who ultimately wants to stay here because he feels as valuable to the law as any other citizen without regard to the situation he has in his current account and regardless of family or political ties. At the level of protection of human rights in Croatia are, of course, responsible authorities of the state administration but are not alone. The report provides a full analysis and assessment of the situation, and part of the recommendations is addressed to other stakeholders, primarily the units of the district and local self-government, universities, professional associations, etc., and we will certainly continue dialogue with them regarding the implementation of these recommendations. In addition to the recommendations, the report contains other elements prescribed by the Law on the Ombudsman, the Law on the National Prevention Mechanism and the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, gives an analysis and assessment of the status of the protection of rights and freedoms and the assessment of the extent to which the competent authorities have complied with the recommendations of previous years. As for the 2016 report we talked about here last year, about 40% of the recommendations have been implemented so far. For the year before, for the 2015 report, this data is about 28% for a report that was not accepted, which only confirms the importance of supporting the Croatian Parliament in meeting the recommendations and thus in changes that can then be achieved in the lives of citizens. The report was prepared by methodology as well as earlier primarily based on complaints from citizens, then by means of data from hundreds of stakeholders including all competent authorities, judicial authorities, civil society organisations, trade unions, professional associations, academic community, religious organisations and many others. Then, on the basis of information gathered by field work in more than 50 cities, villages, municipalities, places throughout Croatia, with special emphasis on rural areas and small municipalities and cities, we also used a series of relevant international, European and domestic research, including research that we ourselves conducted on the occurrences of discrimination in Croatia. In the last year, there have been some shifts forward but not significant systemic changes. Citizens continued to face almost identical obstacles between guaranteed rights and their achievements as before. This shows several key problems that arise to a greater or lesser extent in the really good part of the complaints we are taking and in almost all areas, either as a result of human rights violations. It is primarily the great poverty in which many citizens live. The fact that they often do not have equal access to rights, are not about rights enough, then there is an extremely large mistrust that continues to show for institutions and a sense of intolerance towards different groups or opinions as well as a lack of dialogue in public space. I would call these, the neural points of human rights are visible in the good part of the complaints that citizens are giving us. When it comes to areas and the reasons why citizens are talking to us, for the first time these are the problems that arise from the field of employment and service relations. They are in an extremely difficult position both unemployed and employed both in the private and public sectors, which is due to the uncertainty of status, inadequate protection or non-payment of the corresponding overtime and even full pay. They do not trust institutions, so often they do not report to anyone as long as they are in a working relationship and when they do, their trust is further deepened because of the long-term nature of their actions, so we believe that the capacity of inspection services needs to be strengthened, but also, for example, to relieve the inspectors of the work they are doing in cases that have been initiated under official duty. It is necessary to clearly define what is taken into account, in addition to the basic criteria, when assessing the requirements for implementing active employment policy measures in order to be truly consistent and transparent, otherwise the unemployed will continue to feel that the decisions are arbitrarily taken. And this is also another recommendation whose implementation has been accepted or confirmed, so we will continue to follow. As regards labour and employment discrimination, the labour market was already indisposed to 40 years in 2017. In addition, the research we conducted has shown that even 1/4 citizens to have their own company would be a problem hiring Roma. A little more thinks the Roma working in service would reject clients. Some employers have shown a very open negative attitude towards union members and trade union action and unequal treatment has also been exposed by workers because of their political beliefs as well as their health status. The complaints we receive and the successful cases that have led to the elimination of discrimination in large companies show that it is extremely important to invest in the education of all experts who should work to combat discrimination, so we recommended this to the Croatian Association of Employers, HZZZ, local self-government units and trade unions. The second most numerous area according to complaints is the judiciary, which is also marked by a great mistrust of citizens. We rarely witness the strong echoes of court decisions in public, and it is often the impression that justice is not equally available to all and that laws do not apply equally to everything depending on property, knowledge or social influence. With that in mind, a large space to improve in terms of equating judicial practice and increasing trust in the judiciary, we see in two directions. One is better communication and continued publication of judicial decisions, and the other is education of judicial officials and advisers. That is why we have recommended that the Ministry of Justice draw up appropriate tools to improve communication with the public and that, in cooperation with the courts, the system of publication of powerful judicial decisions. According to the European judicial light, Croatia is only 18 in the EU for public access to court decisions on the Internet. Only 13% attended European law education and this shows how important it is to ensure adequate, material and financial resources for the work of the judicial academy, which we also told the Ministry of Justice and the Government. It is particularly important to highlight the problems arising from the inadequate legal aid system and, in particular, the primary free legal aid, which is almost before the collapse, due to the extremely few allocations, but also to the fact that these funds are not available to the providers. The BPP is intended for socially endangered citizens, in order to exercise the right to access to justice, i.e. equality before the law. This is, therefore, a situation in which a pensioner who has 900 kn is accidentally completed should state his objection, it is obvious that there is no money for a lawyer and that the objection itself cannot be drawn up, and must do so within 8 days. In a country where every 5 people are at risk of poverty, almost every 10 people live in extreme poverty, it is clear how important an effective and stable system of free legal assistance is that it is not in reality. In 2017, the funds for the work of non-governmental organisations of free legal assistance from the total of EUR 700000 paid in the budget were paid only in December. And what is quite reported so far is that the same problem here will be discussed next year, since it is now June and mid-year, and the results of the competition for providers of primary legal aid this year have not yet been completed. What we have in the government opinion, in this area, is that there is no understanding of these difficulties, so we will certainly continue to discuss them. The third area by number of complaints is discrimination in general, mostly on basic ethnicities, then age and faith, in the field of work, most often in the field of work and employment. In 2017, a national plan was finally adopted to combat discrimination, and it is necessary to welcome the adoption of operational plans, operational programmes for national minorities from 2017-2020. The cause of discrimination is often prejudice and stereotypes, and their presence in society is visible from more research, the best way of preventing them is precisely integration where there is a really big space for improvement. It's the best thing to see, for example. to the Roma national minorities. Many of the settlements in which Roma live today in Croatia are still isolated and away from other communities. Many households have no access to electricity and water connections, and residents live below the dignity limit and have nothing but leisure time. Young people often do not have enough opportunities for education or employment, and even 40% of Roma do not have enough resources to obtain quality food and pay the directorship, leaving them constantly in a vicious cycle of poverty and social exclusion. This is also a lot of information, that while 16.8% of the majority population is over 65 in the Roma population, only 1.4% of the population experience this age. That's a really big difference. Here, a still present social distance and prejudice should be singled out even hatred for members of the Serb national minority. The unresolved remains and the problem of supplying el. energy in the area of largely populated returnees, which should be reunited in 126 villages and villages. The gaps exist also in the integration of searchers of international protection and those granted it. They are thus only allowed 70 hours of learning Croatian, which is really not enough for education, for employment and in general for social contact. These were the most common three areas in which the citizens addressed us during 2017 and in which we received complaints. Among the over 60 different topics and sub-topics that we have discussed in the report, I hope and ask you to use the integrated text of the report in the debate, since the summary is only prepared to meet the obligation of the Rules of Procedure related to the number of pages, and for the sake of a better review we have prepared for you the infographics you have on the benches. Of these 60 areas, i.e. under the areas, should be related to property legal relations, discrimination in the area and the foundation of education, problems related to housing of Croatian defenders' rights and civilian victims of war, environmental protection and many others that you will hope to benefit from and when all these topics are discussed in the assembly during the year so that they really have a human rights basis for all the new laws and strategies that will be adopted in the Assembly. As for some other topics, which would be important at this time of use, which would be important to talk about, I think it's important to mention the executive system, which is still neither functional nor just, and the extent of the problem, which continues to cause are almost alarming and many prevent debt settlement, which is contrary to its purpose. High costs of the process, but other difficulties also push the perpetrators on the sidelines of society and without hope of exiting the debt, while at the same time many creditors fail to collect. This topic, taking a significant place in the media and in the political and professional arena, although it is very positive what it gets on visibility, is often lost professional and responsible approach, all of which encourages growing social tensions and leads to advocacy and the adoption of new potentially equally inadequate solutions. And that is why we really have great expectations from the proposal for a new implementing law that can contribute, create a fair, simple and cost-effective system-efficient model of enforcement, which should protect the procedural balance of parties. More than a million Croatian citizens live at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and as many as 500,000 live in severe material deprivation. However, social benefits remain too low, and should be directed more precisely, using maps of world bank poverty and the Croatian Statistics Institute. We have recommended a number of concrete amendments to the Social Welfare Act that the government will consider, noting that their adoptions will depend on the resources provided for in the state budget. I therefore remind you that according to the Constitution, the Republic of Croatia is a social state and that society is strong only to the extent that it cares for its weakest members. This certainly includes the responsibility of local communities. In spite of the legal obligation, many cities and municipalities do not pay the cost of housing to the poorest, nor do all the major cities and offices of the county respect the obligation to finance the soup kitchens and shelters or hostels for the homeless. On the other hand, social self-services are inaccessible in many areas because their work depends on the enthusiasm of individuals and organisations and therefore needs to be prescribed as social services and prescribed their way of funding. Among those who certainly need strong support from society are elderly people living in large poverty more than the EU average. Last year, there have been positive shifts as regards better protection against domestic violence or better protection in the context of a life and life support contract. In elderly homes it is necessary to ensure better protection of human rights, which is extremely difficult or almost impossible with a chronic lack of employees affecting the quality of the service, but also affecting the safety of the user. In the area of health, we didn't notice any shifts in the better. The waiting lists are still long. There is still no solution for patients who need expensive medicines, and the availability of health services is a major problem, especially for rural and remote residents. We know that we are by mortality from malignant diseases at the very top of the EU. We also know what disease is multiple sclerosis and how valuable it is timely treatment, but it starts only a year from diagnosis. And it is therefore extremely important to prepare and implement the necessary clinical guidelines, ensure systematic financing of expensive medicines, adopt a regulation that prescribes a medically acceptable time to provide health care, which is only part of the recommendations in this area that we bring in the report. In the field of environmental protection, we also receive a growing number of complaints from year to year, and what we can conclude is that environmental policy is not sufficiently integrated into other sectoral policies and that there is insufficient cooperation between resolutions. It is important to strengthen measures to protect citizens from environmental health threats, as regards human consumption, air quality, waste disposal recovery, and protection from electromagnetic radiation and noise. I would briefly mention one of the most powerful topics in the past year, which is the use of Ustasha greetings For a home prepared by which many have been killed only because of their faith, ethnicity, sexual orientation, health or political conviction. This greeting was announced on several occasions by the Constitutional Court, assessed by the anti-constitutional, and the Council for the face-to-face of the rule of non-democratic regimes concluded that the issue of its multiplicity for use in the Homeland War is unacceptable because it does not take into account the fact that even in the time of the Homeland War this greeting was anti-constitutional. We still do not know what will happen to the Council's recommendations, including the provision of a narrow exemption from the ban on use or whether it will be taken into account by the competent authorities. In public space last year, there was a sense of discrimination and hate speech, especially on the Internet. The illusion of anonymity encourages individuals to make threats to their unsanitary, especially those towards journalists who have been victims of online death threats and physical attacks simply because they have done their job. As a society, we seem to have forgotten to talk and listen, and we've reported pretty much in the divisions of us and them, on the black and white of whatever subject it was. It's a really big problem because it creates an atmosphere of hopelessness and stagnation that people go across the border. 50% of high school students see their future in another country. Houses for older and powerless can't find employees, I can't find foster parents, nurses, nurses and technicians because they've moved their careers somewhere else from their home, but with better opportunities for family financial stability. All of them who leave the Republic of Croatia are thinking, but also those who leave is not an option, these more than 200 recommendations we make in this report are intended to improve the situation. I remain focused on the work of the national preventive mechanism in which we see some positive shifts, but unfortunately there have also been no major systemic improvements in 2017. In the prison system, it is necessary to reorganise and improve health care, levelen treatment and strengthen the effectiveness of the means of legal protection, and the conditions of accommodation so as not to be humiliating to the prescribed standards. The conditions of accommodation are also a problem in psychiatric institutions, and part of unclear legal provisions opens up the possibility of violating patients' rights. We also received a large number during 2017 for police treatment, so we are particularly concerned that civil surveillance of police work has not yet been established. On the other hand, a positive example of cooperation with the Police Directorate is... the complaints we received about the actions of a family because, after our warning, the Directorate has provided all the police administrations with instructions on the implementation of our recommendation and the obligation to respect the dignity of the person to whom it is handled. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We informed the Croatian Parliament about international protection seekers and regular migrants, i.e. warnings and recommendations on this subject, about the Croatian Parliament and before this Report to the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which held a thematic session on the subject. Although communication with the MUP and the Police Directorate in this area has indeed been regular and timely, the answers of the MUP have often been insufficient and principled and our conduct continues in a really large and growing number of cases related to this area. Of course, when it comes to migration, we know that the Republic of Croatia is not an isolated island in its action, that it is part of a wider European story that is often, unfortunately, a very tragic story. The Republic of Croatia is implementing EU policy and the EU is not offering a solution for hundreds of thousands of people coming here to seek security. However, this international and European context does not deprive the Republic of Croatia of responsibility for respect for human rights of persons who are part of migration movements, which so far is not a consistent case and the observation of these phenomena is solely in the context of security that helps groups and individuals who want to earn what Frontex himself said recently. Finally, I will remind you that the institution of the Ombudsman is as old as the Croatian independence established by the 1991 Christmas Constitution. Last year, in this large two-day conference, we marked the 25th anniversary of the first Law on the Ombudsman's regiment, which brought together a very large number of top officials from the Council of Europe, the EU, the UN, the head of human rights institutions and equality from all over Europe, as well as colleagues from Croatia. During 2017 we continued to chair the European network of independent national human rights institutions while my deputy, Tena Simunović Einwalter, who is not here today, took over the Presidency of the European Equality Body during last year. This situation that one office is at the same time leading two of the most relevant networks in the field of human rights and equality has not yet been recorded, and therefore the exceptional honor that Croatia and in this way remain listed as a very important shareholder in the context of the protection of human rights and equality in Europe and I want to take advantage of this opportunity, thanks to my deputies, but also to all colleagues and colleagues in the office who are monitoring this debate and monitoring everything you will say about the report and about our work on their truly committed, sacrificial, enthusiastic and professional work that throughout the year tries to enable as many citizens to protect their human rights as possible and also to give the Assembly one whole objective information on the state of human rights in Croatia. I must stress in the end that we learn a lot from each of these discussions. We certainly accept quality arguments and want the report to get better every year. We are open to all constructive proposals and we hope that today's debate will also be constructive and focused on solutions from which citizens will ultimately benefit the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85961	Thank you very much. Most of you have expressed your desire for replicas, so we have a long line of replicas, so we'll start with the first respected representatives of Mrak-Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85962	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Vidovic, I have one question that can be simple and can be complicated. What's this about? In your report, I also participated in the government's response, so I was executive and I discussed the report from the point of view of the parliamentary representative. So we can follow the report for years and I'm interested in one thing. If you were to assess what improvements these improvements are through, you already have a certain experience, which portfolio would you indicate or highlight where we see improvements? We see in a series of resistors that stagnation is either bad or we see how someone evaluates us, and I'm not going to ask you in that sense for this negatively, I'm curious if you should answer someone, through your work that has been going on for many years now, which is the resort where you see improvements?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85963	The answer of the esteemed attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85964	It is very difficult and ungrateful of course to single out one, two or more of them, what is very important to me in these five years is that with all the restaurants I have got better and better, of course with some less regrets over the year, cooperation and communication, that increasingly rarely happens that we don't get answers or that we have to write to the government because we didn't get answers to something. There are improvements, but of course it works in a business of social change where they come slowly. The intensity of this institution is not to order, to have executive powers, to tell people what to do about how to do but to improve the situation in as many areas as possible through dialogue.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85965	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85966	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Attorney General. So, compared to 2016 when you had 220, and compared to this year and 2017 with 231 recommendations, can you tell us how many of these, because there are a large number of recommendations, meaning you're probably repeating the recommendations of the previous year or the previous years, which of which is really done, which of these recommendations have been made by you to those who were intended?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85967	The answer of the esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85968	Unfortunately, the government no longer submits a report on the implementation of recommendations from the Ombudsman's staff report, which was one of the conditions during the pre-accession negotiations. The last such report we have is for the 2013 report. If that report still existed, the answer to your question would be easier to give. What we can do every year, we compare to what number, to what extent these recommendations are fulfilled, as I told you, for the last report we estimate that they are accepted by about 40%. For a year earlier when the Parliament did not accept the report, the bodies did not consider that they had an obligation to implement the recommendations and that level was lower than around 28%. As I said, the goal is to discuss recommendations, the goal is that even when we disagree about them, over the year we find some common points that we can then verify the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85969	The next replica is the respected representative Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85970	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I must congratulate you on the tenacity and professionality that you and your associates show from year to year, unreserved, completely independent and autonomously pointing to the level of human rights in the Republic, but also to the need or space to improve the same. You are our authority officer of the Croatian Parliament. The very fact here when you were attacked in 2015, when your report was disputed how the institutions actually misunderstood and did not actually respond to the recommendations you made. However, what concerns me again in this report of yours is that the government was only showing 50% of the recommendations made by your office. I fear that if the government continues to ignore 50% of potential human rights violations and recommendations for improving those where certain shortcomings have been identified, we will again send a bad message to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85971	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85972	So may I just mention once again that, according to our analysis of the Government's opinion of the Report that is now in front of you, the Government accepts or already is in the implementation of 39 recommendations or more than 16%, it will consider a little less than 7%, we don't accept about 20%, we don't understand, that's something where we don't see whether we understand each other well in the implementation of the recommendation about 5%, and without any indication it's 50% of the recommendations, which are not without obvious recommendations in the opinion, not all of the recommendations that apply to the work of the state bodies. Some are also directed to the units of the regional self-government, some are professional associations, therefore, not only the government is responsible for implementing all recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85973	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85974	Your Honorary Attorney, I'd like to know how you see this message that 1/3 of open cases are in only four areas, which are working and official relations, justice, discrimination and healthcare. What is this message to you about the situation in Croatian society? Secondly, I welcome these recommendations, although look, when you say to the elderly help in the house to make available in all parts of the country, to ease the price for achieving what is reasonable, but how to achieve help, I guess with some supermen who will fly across multi-story residential buildings without elevators. In fact, I've been connecting it to something that I've been pushing for over a year and so many days in the Croatian Parliament that we're starting to do this out of EU funds. So it's just one of my comments, there's more of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85975	The next replica is the respected representative Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85976	Thank you very much. Your Honorary Attorney, here I am today believing that young people are moving out of the Republic of Croatia because of low wages, because of unemployment, because of the state's failure to function, but I've just learned from a HDZ representative that they're actually moving out because they have difficult parents and that these difficult parents are making their lives miserable. So I wonder if those young people who moved out of the Republic of Croatia have come to complain about their parents, and if they are, to what extent, so that this scientific claim stemmed from the ranks of the ruling majority can be confirmed or challenged. So how do your parents make your life miserable and then do they go to Australia or, say, Greenland because of these parents or maybe they're still going to Germany, Ireland, where there's work to do, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85977	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85978	Thank you. The esteemed attorney general, you said nicely that everyone is born free but unfortunately it doesn't last long in the Republic of Croatia since we have 330,000 blocked. Many fear for their work, party obedience, is left without a job unless you are a member of the ruling party. The system is practically falling apart, and as Bunjac said, today we learned that these parents are so terrible, even though our parents aren't. We're still here. It is regrettable that Croatia is subject to the definition of a law that says that the spider web in which tiny flies are caught and the bumblebees fly through it. I think it's one of the big problems that makes young people go away, but also the problem of the whole system in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, with all your work I appreciate, unfortunately the effect is very difficult to gain and something very difficult will change along with this political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85979	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85980	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honorary Attorney, I would just briefly do one correlation here with this statistical data of yours and I think they must not remain on paper alone, that all this work to help these people should actually be put into one frame and institutional or systematic solution to these problems. So it's not the individual system. It's the system. But let me just say that we had a debate here a few weeks ago about the work of the Board of Appeals and Presentations where every other complaint was the same from, or from, the area of justice. So he obviously had systemic problems in some areas and needed to be resolved as soon as possible. I would just like to read one more sentence that is absolutely relevant to me today from your report, and it reads like this: The relationship of the majority to the minority is one of the most important criteria of the democracy of society, and resolving open issues of responsibility for politicians at all levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85981	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85982	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Vidovic, citizens do not trust institutions. Here, let me give you an example. The Croatian Parliament passed the Law in 2013, ordering non-interested banks to agree them properly. The banks, instead of merely defining these interest rates, send the debtors information on this, after which the court makes a valid collective ruling that the banks have negotiated unfair interest rates, that they should no longer behave in such a way as to continue to behave, but they continue to act accordingly. The High Violent Court has decided that it will not punish banks for this because it considers the notice sufficient, that it is the same as the contract. Last year, I propose to the Croatian Parliament a law that addresses the situation, once and for all, the Croatian Parliament rejects because the government is against both citizens and today over a hundred thousand are paying illegal interest rates and institutions are silent. That's us.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85983	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85984	Dear Mrs. Vidovic. I've read your report, it's very extensive, and when I read your report, it's like I wrote it, everything you write about, everything you write about, about it, I honk day and night, but unfortunately, Mrs. Vidovic, this ruling majority doesn't feel any responsibility either to us or to you, they don't want to implement the measures you're proposing. And what you wrote about the performance is frantic, it says in such a way that I don't have any bread for myself and my child, and let alone the other directors and expenses we need through life, with all this being a single mother, says I as a disabled working with a family pension from that pension get 600 kuna per month and we need to live me and the child. I don't have the strength to handle this on my own anymore because I'm tired of this life, and every little bit I have to go through the exams and the surgery for two years and all this and my illness, the executions are ruining my health and my existence for life. I wish you luck that at least some of your recommendations still this government does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85985	Thank you. The next is the replica of the respected representative Hrvoj Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85986	Honorable attorney, respected associates. There's one fact nobody mentioned here that your report from two years ago didn't go through, it wasn't adopted or this House didn't adopt your report, and you ignored it. So you just didn't get what would be right, you came out of that place honorably, but you showed up again, that Mrs. Pusic was the only one who expected it, so feel free to laugh, and you didn't do it. Speak again here again today we hear “For Home Ready, ” and we haven’t heard, for example. that you said you were going to insult Croatian defenders what your colleague Stazic did when he said, did you say that when you went to Ireland, Croatian defenders had the advantage, and we still haven't heard you. And I'm now asking for an answer, and now I'm asking you to comment on Mr. Stazic's statement in May '45. For years, war winners still didn't do the job as it was meant to be done there wouldn't be any comments like this. So I ask you to comment on Mr. Stazic's statements if you are able to comment on the Cyrillic and "For Home Ready", comment on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85987	Thank you. A colleague of the Voice raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85988	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I believe that my colleague Zekanovic has injured Article 14 which says what are the rights and responsibilities. Nowhere in this Rules of Procedure does it say that a representative can determine who will come to the Assembly at any time, and especially if that person, by all laws and by the constitution of the Republic of Croatia, is not only desirable in this House but also authorised to be here, to submit a report and to answer questions to the MPs. Therefore, I ask you to warn your colleague Zekanovic of his representation rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85989	Okay, well, of course you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure because it's the right of an agent to say what they mean, it's okay with you or I agree with it or any of us with it or disagree. Therefore, anyone can be here if he does not insult another, and it was no insult to say what he thinks otherwise we would not be in Parliament and not be a democracy. Here's my colleague Zekanovic, let's not start with the violations of the Rules of Procedures that are not now.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85990	Just for a little while, the same article to my colleague, the Voter. Of course, I have the right to take part in the meetings of the Parliament and discuss them, or my colleague misread it. So of course I have the right to think for myself and that I have the right to speak in this House, which is why I've been elected here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85991	That's what I said, and you've actually abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm begging you, let's not start with that now, is that contagious sometimes and then everybody starts to pick it up, and it's not necessary. The esteemed attorney general will now respond to counterpart Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85992	Very briefly, actually, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament responded very well, yes, and it is offensively permitted. I find Mr. Szazic's statement personally unacceptable. We have received three complaints in the office about this statement, and we will conduct the proceedings and report them to the 2018 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85993	Thank you. Here before we go to the next replica let me welcome the students here at the gallery of students of the Catholic Faculty of God. And the next replica is the one given by the esteemed representative, Marco Vezligaj. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85994	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney with the associates. Here I can only say from the point of view of local self-government leaders, you've also sent certain recommendations to local self-government units with which I agree with everyone. However, in Croatia there is a model of a centralised state and many units of local self-government are unable to meet all these recommendations that you listed inside, especially smaller local units located in rural areas, I am glad that you also mentioned this in particular. Of course it's not your fault, it's not your responsibility because I'm sure these local units have enough resources, it would be for young people, it would also be for the elderly, it would be for the cost of housing, which here, I must say sometimes, requires a lot of administrations, administrations, sometimes we face manipulations, avoiding work for the common good, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85995	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85996	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The esteemed attorney, then the work, why they haven't replaced you, is because you're doing well and Mr. Zekanovic, you can stand on your backs, but you won't be replaced, because you're doing well and that's it. What I would warn you about, I don't see a problem in the report regarding discrimination against women on the labour market. It's something that's not mentioned in this report, which is a problem that's very big, because that's why women have less wages, less jobs, less pensions. Now, if this pension is provided for by this government, women will fall below the level of poverty by the time they retire, if the penalization is strengthened. And I am a little sorry that this report did not mention it, because it is something that Croatian society must not allow, and I think it should have been pointed out more strongly in this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85997	The answer of the esteemed attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85998	I fully agree with you that this is one of the biggest problems in Croatian society right now, however, it has been reported and is actually being followed by the Advocate General for Gender Equality by the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, which is the area of monitoring by the Advocate for Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u85999	The next replica of the respected representative Mark Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86000	I thank the Ombudsman, and I would remind the public only, today we have a chance to see in you who has been established, of all those who have been disfigured today, who were disproved in 2017, and would require colleagues to take this seriousness and approach this topic, not to enter into any humorous and attempt to justify and bring to an acceptable level of what cannot be acceptable in our society, which is a denial of the right. Just as such a person with full seriousness and concern we observe this conclusion of yours that this report also finds elements for which our citizens are evicting from the Republic of Croatia. If so, then we can only expect to radicalise society in the future, unless we oppose it, because those who leave are those who are discriminated against, and those who remain should develop models of resistance to discrimination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86001	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86002	The esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Advocates, the conclusions of the Council to face the past next to a large part of Croatian citizenship and people do not pass for a simple reason, because the five-point star is a socially acceptable feature and one cry by the defenders, who have defended the country for home prepared, is not acceptable. I can tell you from home we are ready to face in the Homeland War in a positive form, where under that slogan we have freed our homeland, although it is unacceptable to someone, and with a five-point star I have faced the same many times, at least me and my friends and we are still unacceptable in any form.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86003	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86004	Thank you very much. The Honorable Attorney General, compared to last year, has in the report what I asked for, and you agreed to do so, which is to expand your activity in rural areas, to get out on the ground, especially in health care. In the first instance, women, women in the Dalmatian Zagora, can't have a simple examination of the ultrasound of the breast or in other parts of the undeveloped, which in Zagreb, or example, we know that we also have an attorney for children, but, unfortunately, in the Croatian state, what a violation of the Constitution is, and that all children do not have the same rights, e.g. Buying textbooks. Somewhere local rich, they secure those assets, somewhere not, is that just, that's right. They don't have free textbooks in the poor parts, and that's what we're talking about. But I'd like to commend the attorney-general on the basis of last year's debate on healthcare, and I'm also talking about this field, which means, on the edge that you've now spread it out, but see that the Dalmatian Zagora is still getting a little zagora, so just check these parts, if there's still light by the time you get here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86005	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does one of the government's representatives want to further explain the government's opinion? No, I don't. Then we begin the debate, I open the debate, and the first on behalf of the National Minority Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Veljko Katazi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86006	... The Croatian Parliament, the esteemed attorney general with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. [[Specially enabled.]] On the occasion of a report delivered by the Ombudsman for 2017 and as a representative of the 12 national minorities in the Croatian Parliament, I must say that I support the conclusions and recommendations of the report, and that I believe that the problems and not only of the national minorities are very precise, but of a large number of our citizens. The report largely confirms that a large number of our citizens in one way or another have been disproved. What is particularly worrying is that those who contribute to society to the full extent and we consider them employees also have basic existential problems, and then to those socially endangered or multiple-hazarded groups, we can talk for hours and submit a special report and conclusions. What I am particularly concerned about as a representative of the most vulnerable part of society is the fact that the reports that the attorney general delivers from year to year are the same. This tells us that the recommendations we receive every year from year to year have not been made or accepted by the authorities, authorities of the state administration, local self-government, etc. So I'm asking why we need these reports and what's the point of an occupier's institute with dozens of employees if their voice doesn't listen. Often, the institution of the occupier is unnecessarily politicised, while forgetting that this institution is a mediator between citizens and their problems on the one hand and institutions that do their job badly or not well enough. The idea of the Ombudsman institution is not to be a purpose to itself, which will annually deliver a report without legal weight. Why such a situation is difficult to assess but I will take this opportunity to point out that among the 231 recommendations this report makes we find almost a hundred directly related to the position of minorities that I represent. And most of the recommendations refer to socially endangered citizens, which makes it clear that in our country, it is those who have the least and who have the least political influence and power behind them that are behind them. I am not personally aware of how successfully the recommendations made by the Ombudsman have been implemented and I suppose we do not have that information because, as the government's Human Rights and Rights Office states, the Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has not followed up on the recommendations of the previous Ombudsman's report in spite of the obligations taken as a condition, the closure of Chapter 23, as well as the importance for the human rights protection system in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm going back to the question I've already asked you, which is why this report if no one accepts his recommendations? This is also confirmed by the report, which states: “Citizens continued to face the same problems as the previous years. ” Perhaps it is in some sense good because we do not have many new problems but when we do not have a system of monitoring the implementation of recommendations that are well written and accurate, we can put the 2018 report immediately in the procedure because it is inevitable that at the same time this year we will talk about a new report that will be rewritten, the most important complaints about discrimination relating in particular to members of the Roma national minority. Of course, I am aware that we are not going to solve the problem, but who can improve the state of human rights in one country if they cannot do so to the government's offices beyond the threat, which we are talking about is a huge political power that can reduce not only the impatience but also the social conditions of a large number of citizens. What I can confirm through my work and these are largely confirming that the number of cases in recent years has been growing steadily. I will repeat the position of a large number of my compatriots and minority representatives from other national minorities that by entering the EU, there have been increasing demands that national minority rights be reduced but that in practice the focus of the institutions has gone in a different direction, leaving many unsatisfactory. I am not just talking about discrimination, which is unfortunately still most related to its most primitive form, which is discrimination based on race, ethnicity, skin color and national origin, but I am saying that institutions do not work to prevent and improve a series of preconditions needed to meet the obligations of the state prescribed not only by European standards but also by our Constitution and by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. I believe that this kind of discrimination is the main reason why 40% of my countrymen, as the report states, do not have enough resources to obtain quality food and pay directors, which seriously endangers their health and in the market sense, makes them disabled because we are coming into a situation that is completely excluded from the regular functioning of society. The report contains a lot of statistics and I will highlight a few, among other things, that only 1.4% of the population is over 65 years old, while at that age is 16.8% of the general population. This tells us that a part of our citizens will not live to be 65 years and a large number of them and their 50s or 40s precisely because of the way of life that kills and destroys an entire nation. I can't say that the situation isn't better from year to year, but... The dependence of strategic documents and their implementation depends on the policy in which the problems we are talking about today are often under the radar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we must seek as a social state is not only equality and rights but in practical terms the creation of a society where there will be criteria under which we will not go in terms of housing, education, social and health. I have repeatedly said that such a way is causing multiple costs to the state, and the implementation of recommendations that are presently ahead of us must become one of the priorities of all those covered by them. A large number of recommendations are very specific and does not necessarily involve large means of implementation but we simply need to step up and promote a different approach in the arrangement of society that will not focus on the form but at least a minimum satisfaction of standards that will consequently have an impact on statistics that are not on our hands today. What authorities must do is find a uniform and comprehensive approach to preserving people's dignity and lives and, above all, the fight against poverty, which involves increasing compensation especially for young people and individuals who are temporarily outside of the competition of the labour market and creating a better entrepreneurial climate and, of course, the civil approach and greater importance of values such as civic education. By tomorrow I can talk about problems but I will only count some and I believe that everyone will understand and support me and these are problems of insufficient and overpriced accommodation and poor almost no living conditions, energy and other poverty of citizens, unfair executive, communal and loanary access to citizens, and failure to meet authorities in the context of human and other rights that are mostly denied to us. I am taking this opportunity to call on all the authorities who mention this report, regardless of the non-binding character of the recommendation and the inability to sanction and ignore these reports we are witnessing, to take responsibility for the problems of their domains.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86007	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and the SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Branimir Bunjac will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86008	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed attorney general with his associates, the secretary of state. We have yet another report, annually, another excellent report as well as what happened last year, exhaustively, specifically, neatly, technically correctly written, one of the few that is worth reading in this House of Higher Education, regardless of what has many pages because in some way this report represents a chronicle of the situation in Croatian society and unfortunately we could say some kind of forensic report or necrologist since the situation in Croatia is really so dramatic that we can say that time is slowly running out for all of us. The report itself lists a number of areas where steps are needed, where improvements are needed, where reforms that we have been expecting for years are to be implemented, but unfortunately they do not occur, e.g. in the area of justice where the situation is very difficult, where it should begin first of all, it is good that the attorney herself has put it as a priority because among other things, the continuing problem of the length of court proceedings is highlighted, the citizens' feelings that there are privileged persons in the courts, or the citizens of the second row, that these trials are too expensive, that you can't actually get justice in the courts, but for it you have to fight in the rule of politics. We see in the courts that there are trials for politicians who fail to finish, we see that for years it has been waiting to press charges at all, say, as in the case of Mr Bandic, and then when it is brought up, then two years it has been waiting for the indictment to be legal. We see a suspicious paperwork that slows down procedures, say, the investigation file for Mr. Mamic has 17,000 pages, for Mr. Czechoko 36,000 pages, for Ivo Sanader 40,000 pages. Tell me, who in Croatia has ever read this file? So we know in advance that no one has ever read a 40 000-page file and the question is, what's the point of doing a court file that's a few meters long and weighs tens or even a couple hundred pounds? Of course, for Mr. Chehok, the indictment was filed in 2018, until today there is no first-degree verdict, and there is also no verdict for Mr. Ivo Sanader, he could probably run for second-year president. Here we see that it announces a coalition of HDZ and SDP, it is very much needed for Croatia, perhaps by the foundation of that service it reduces a little punishment or gets another year on the loose, maybe the file extends to, say, 60,000 pages, paper there, why don't we say two cars of the site, so at least there's something in Croatia that's growing on the scale of court files that aren't being solved. We have, say, artificial skills, artisaning takes nine months, one year, three years, let's say we saw one MP being signed by a witch for a year, it's a very difficult science, and we actually see that in courts we have to prove the notor facts. Let's say in courts you have to prove that the sun is yellow, that man has legs, etc., and then it's logical that it never comes to judgment, that for wartime profiteers here for 28 years we have one powerful verdict, so one man was stealing around Croatia at the time of the war and, in fact, if we were to view it statistically, we could say that everything is fine but unfortunately citizens, so here is the attorney general who communicates with the citizens, thinks that the judiciary doesn't work. Let's say there's an interesting case from Čakovec where I live, we have a murder of a young man, 22 years old, a first-degree verdict waited seven years now a second-degree wait will wait again I don't know how many, no one's in jail, parents lost a child and that's therefore Croatian justice. The attorney general also said that free legal protection in Croatia does not exist, it exists only on paper because there is no adequate funding, the legal tariffs are very expensive and everyone wants to earn on them, unless normally in case it is a Borg group, then lawyers work free of charge, then there are no tariffs needed, for them there is free legal assistance but for these Croatian citizens who have problems with performances, blockades, for them there are no free legal aid. We have, of course, a 2016 SOA report that corrupt judges are jeopardizing national security, but to this day we haven't found out what these judges are. They know the prime minister, and he knows the president of the state. But the public didn't find out, and they'll never know, at least as long as HDZ's majority is in power. The Ombudsman then cited discrimination against minorities. Here, we have heard that we have discrimination against Serbs. They can still return to the Republic of Croatia, but they can't get electricity. It's such an interesting phenomenon. Even 126 villages have no electricity, but people can come back, no one defends them, they're free to come back, only they'll sit in the dark. Then we have a report that the Roma don't want to hire anywhere, even though we need to work because the Roma are pushing the customers. So, let's say that if Rom worked in a shop or a hair salon, then no one would want to go to that store or a hair salon. So we have in the Republic of Croatia very interesting arguments why someone should be discriminated against, and then we don't have to be surprised that here, even here, maybe 100 meters from the Croatian Parliament in Dolec beats up the Roma because they sell things on the market like everyone else, and then the European Court of Human Rights doesn't know, sentence a few hundred thousand kunas when we don't know how to regulate the area of human rights ourselves. It's interesting, of course, I have to mention now, that minorities actually have one paradoxical situation, which is that their representatives are now supporting the authority that allows it. It's a Croatian phenomenon, but I don't want to over-explanate it now. I would also like to say that there is great discrimination, at least according to this report, and generally according to common common sense in the field of labour and employment. That many people work for a certain time practically their whole life. Here, the attorney general listed a person who worked in the same employer for 15 years and made 54 contracts for a certain time. He will probably welcome a pension at the workplace without ever having a full job contract. It is also a big problem that overtime must be done free of charge, which is paid largely in certain sectors. That's what I've said to Minister Maric 20 times, but he keeps acting deaf. So people have registered minimals, they have small salaries, and tomorrow they'll have small pensions because their employers don't want to pay their contributions. Public tenders are the same cancer wounds in the field of labour law. So a party-like person who is therefore related to certain persons or in even worse ways that are now better and politely not to mention can only be employed in the state administration. In many workplaces, a mobing is carried out. Croatia has no conviction at all for mobing. There's also supposed to be legislation on paper, but in practice no one will answer for the abuse of workers. We've seen the ruling majority mock our whistle-wrestle law that we brought here to the Parliament. It's none of their business. In their opinion, it is good for employers to step on the workers, to humiliate them, to lower their wages, their rights, to silence them, to throw their work books in their faces, that is, in their opinion, a proper policy. One minority that really threatens Croatia should be fed, which is less than 200 families that have been on the road for some 25 years in the Republic of Croatia to maybe remain the only Croatians in the future. That might be the end-end and the greatest justice. We also see that people of older age are particularly fired. Often these cancellations are camouflaged so-called. Technological surpluses. We see unionists being persecuted, union membership being considered a crime, even union commissioners getting fired. As far as pensions are concerned, there's also a catastrophic situation. So, a large number of pensioners have a pension of less than 1500 kuna. 180 thousand pensioners less than 1000 kuna, 90 thousand pensioners don't have a single kuna of income at all. At 760,000 pensioners, we only have 17,000 places in our homes, only 400 places in which to provide a palitative care. The waiting lists are extremely non-transparent. Services in these homes are often very weak, not even basic hygiene. Older people are exposed to various abuses through life support contracts that basically go to people who die as soon as possible and take away their property, to make good money on it. What do our ministries suggest at the same time? Here, our Ministry suggests we hire pensioners to work until 67 years, to pay now I don't know, the third, fourth pillar, the post office these two aren't even enough even to cover 40% of the wages, let alone 80%, as far as France, Austria or Italy. We see that there are more and more homeless people in the Republic of Croatia every day, that there is a problem of decommissioning, a problem of protected tenants that have yet to be thrown out onto the street according to the proposal of the CNS and their mentors from HDZ. It is a very interesting phenomenon because in Croatia we have tens of thousands of empty properties, perhaps even several hundred thousand, especially owned by banks, but the Republic of Croatia has room to produce homeless people, to have full parks, we have passengers, we have underground garages, cars, by railway stations, abandoned vehicles that are more and more full every day. We also read that citizens are energized, that they cannot pay their directors, that these directors are more expensive than in many EU countries. Let's say we have water bills of about 200 kuna a month and in Ireland it's free. Then we should wonder why the Croats are moving to Ireland. For example. that electricity and gas and water without judgments continue to be excluded. At the same time, these directors are thinking to increase further because we see that last week a completely unnecessary LNG terminal has voted here to collect heating services, we see that the Law on the Communist Economy is being introduced, in which communal monks will practically become a local army that will haunt citizens who will not have to pay for these directives of different obligations and normally do not have because their incomes are far too small. Let's put it this way in the first part of the report a brief look at the problems that Croatia has and the rest, especially the part relating to demographics, which I think is a very current topic then I will say in my individual debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86009	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the GLAS and HSU in the name of which the respected representative Vesna Pusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86010	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Attorney General, Deputy Deputy Secretary of State, Associates, colleagues and colleagues. Let me first, on behalf of the club GLAS, HUS and, in my personal name, congratulate the attorney general and her associates on this report. Your job is to be praised by the opposition and the position of attack. And if it's not like that you don't do well, your job. However, as far as the Parliament is concerned, given the way this report is prepared, it is really serious and comprehensively there is a lot of work to be done for the Parliament. There may be or may be a lot of work because it is a series of things that are variable, even variable if you want to, and some majority parliamentary initiative that really shouldn't be dependent on party membership, because I still believe that, regardless of all the difficulties we have, which we are witnessing and about which we speak in this report of some fundamental value, some fundamental respect and respect for truth, human rights, respect, civil respect for a person, civil status as an inalienable corpus of law, not all of us, but most of us, regardless of the party belonging to this Parliament, supports. And from that position in this report and in the recommendations at the end of this report, there are really plenty of opportunities for us as parliamentarians if we want to stand behind it and do something factually in cooperation with this very important institution of the attorney general, namely, the attorney general. A few, well a lot of people have already talked about these allegations from the report itself, I will use one part of the time but I will not say everything I have written in this regard because I would like to say finally in this presentation a few things that may be more general or which, in my opinion or in the opinion of the GLAS Club and HSU, are a reflection of the wider society and general policy and some topics that today are discussed which are not exclusively the subject of human rights than the general quality of life and some other issues in Croatia. But some of the topics that are mentioned in this report, many of them mentioned, so the fact is that every fifth citizen is in fear of poverty, that they are the most endangered elderly people, something that is not explicitly spoken of here, but is going through the entire report, something that could be called ejaculation or discrimination of older people, by the fact that they are older with labour rights, we see that the older one starts somewhere in the late 40s. So quite the opposite of what happens to the extension of the human century. It is also something that looks so neutrally, neither alone nor there, but it is actually very dangerous and it is important to warn that there is a high degree of mistrust in institutions, based on practical experiences, that is, on the basis of what people have actually experienced in their communication with institutions. The most discriminatory discrimination is based on ethnicity. In the first row, in relation to Serbs and Roma. So where we've been, what we've been doing, nothing. This is the problem from the very beginning, and in some ways we have to face it and accept some more effective policies that from this kind of primitiveism we really, as a society, pull out a particular society that has fewer and fewer people, which is why we need absolutely every Croatian citizen who can get him to stay here. In 2017 there were 4% fewer cases in this report than in 2016, but 78% more cases than in 2012. Now that seems very unusual to me, I guess you're going to say something about it, whether it's a different kind of record, whether it's about the fact that there are offices in the field, but it's really a dramatic difference. Then, the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities did not follow the meeting of earlier recommendations made by the Ombudsman, although as we know, among other things, one of the conditions was for the closure of our chapters and the entry into the EU. And that light motive, therefore, does not follow and do not accept or simply ignore the recommendations of the Ombudsman institution is being carried out throughout the report and is a serious problem. Since it is a parliamentary institution, we should indeed stand behind that institution and demand in this regard the responsibility of the individual authorities of the executive authority in implementing what the Ombudsman is proposing. The basis of discrimination, therefore, is based on which people are mostly discriminated in Croatia, the most race, ethnicity, skin color, national origin and the second criterion of frequency is age. The age of the report is particularly present when it comes to multiple criteria of discrimination. But the fact that in Croatia, I think it's actually so embarrassing to think of yourself as a society where the most common criterion of discrimination is race, ethnicity, skin color and national origin. I'm almost embarrassed to say it. It is something that is a prerequisite for fighting such a kind of discrimination, a prerequisite for every healthy society and a prerequisite for any society that does not sink but has some future and some perspective, and we really need to deal with it more effectively than it has ever been. So one fact that I wasn't aware of, it comes from this report is that, for example, The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, therefore, is not part of the State Expert Exam at the moment. So when you pass a state-run professional exam, you don't have to know anything about it, and you don't just have to know about it in itself, not just to talk about the knowledge with which civil servants enter their business, but also about the importance that the state attaches to that law and the whole concept of fighting discrimination at all. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the main difficulties other than, of course, the length of the proceedings and everything we're talking about are free legal aid. Free legal aid is mostly envisaged and mostly needed by poor old people. Conceived from the very beginning, we have been fighting, competing, Professor Downloader from the Faculty of Law has worked on a lot about the concept of free legal aid which has been conceived approximately so that you need legal help to be able to use free legal aid or find ways, to find a way to use free legal aid. So it doesn't work, which means it's worse than it doesn't exist. If it doesn't exist, you can fight to bring it in, and this is how it takes up that space, and de facto it doesn't provide a function. The position of national minorities, it is clear when national and ethical origin is one of the main criteria of discrimination, or most often, that this is an extremely important issue. And while we are here discussing an initiative called "The People of Decisions" themselves, I would call them extremists to manipulate them, hand over the initiative at this point to reduce the rights of national minorities, in other words, to reduce the right of national minorities to decide in this Parliament. Well, that's one of the few instruments, not to say, of course, a prerequisite for our membership in the EU, but one of the few instruments where representatives of the national minorities are in fact having some influence. And of course it's impossible to expect you to imagine now that they're destroying the government, what kind of circus this would cause in Croatia. But at least through that fact, I can realise some of the interests of those communities that are most discriminated against in Croatia, so we have nothing further to say. I've got a series of excerpts here, but I'm not going to quote them anymore because I see I have a little time left, so I'm going to go right to the end of this exhibit. Namely, this report and its recommendations are the best programme for the demographic restoration of Croatian society. All these miracles that we look at in public, fighting between the government and the president who has better measures, no better measures, no employment, no employment, this is why people are leaving, and this is why the bad atmosphere in society is a cause and a lesser birth rate. To this end, I will quote a discussion on the round table 10 days ago organised by the Centre Miko Tripalo where one expert, there were 12 excellent people who spoke, one expert on population policy said that she from Slovenia has been following the Slovenian situation since the late '70s, that all these measures, greater fees, less fees, longer leave, are all good. It's good to have more fees, it's better to have a longer leave, it's better if I can take both Mom and Dad's leave. However, it has no influence whatsoever, following it has shown a completely flat line as far as this concerns regardless of the measures in Slovenia. There's no effect on the increase in birth rates. What has an impact on the increase in birth rates is a positive, optimistic climate in society. While you hate Serbs, hate gays, hate Roma, hate women, hate commies, and all commies who reject NDH or fascist values, discriminate people towards regions where they live, mentally ill, old, young, poor, women, etc., so far cannot be a positive atmosphere in society. Until then, the atmosphere in society of persecution, discomfort and people who have little entrepreneurship, who have little ambition for themselves and their children will take the path under their feet and leave. They show an increase or decline in the birth rate that this is how the HUP's research recently published among people who have already left the Republic of Croatia. Between 60 and 70% of them did not leave because they had no job or could not find a job but because they could not endure this atmosphere. Bad Justice, somebody's always chasing someone, someone's always harassing someone, someone's always accusing someone. We must accept that, and this report is an excellent basis for us. Thank you very much. We will, of course, support him.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86011	Thank you to my colleague Vesni Pusic on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. The next one is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86012	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Respected lawyers with associates, respected state secretary, Mrs Ramljak, Mr Martinovic and Mr Katic, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this report for several reasons. First of all, we can be very satisfied with the expertise and comprehensiveness of this Report, but at the same time we cannot be satisfied with the content this Report deals with, especially with those problems that last for years. And given all the problems that are listed in this report, and here I have listened to previous discussions, I have seen that this report to some who are not presently in the assembly has served as an excellent polygon for criticism of government or one party. But objectively speaking, the problems mentioned in this report, most of the most circular problems are not really from last year or this year, they last for years and, over time, just grow from year to year. And to listen to the solutions of some who criticise everything that is good and look at people through the party, not through other elements, here I read earlier that the government plane carried a young girl whose life-threatening condition is threatened by measles and auto immune disease, and she was transported right from the south of Croatia to the Infectious Diseases Clinic Fran Mihaljevic. Therefore, what is not good is not good. I don't have a problem with saying no matter what party it comes from, and unlike some who only praise themselves, and no one else is wrong with them because, like I said, it's not the man they're from, it's the party they're from. As regards this Report, therefore, the largest number of complaints comes to a violation of labour rights, especially on the basis of age in the search for a job. And that's what our fact is. It's hard for a 50-year-old to compete with so many young unemployed. And we see that additional measures are needed and we see that the recommendations that are listed are about 230, a quarter will be implemented or planned. 39 recommendations and 16%, respectively, were accepted by the government, about 20% did not accept with certain arguments, which does not mean that it would be accepted at some reasonable time, and about 50% of the recommendations are without obvious, but here it should be noted that not all recommendations to the work of the state bodies are not. Some recommendations concern the local self-government unit, including universities, etc. So other stakeholders in the public sector. Based on this report, we can say a few important things that are general. So it's about the general state of society. And what's important, therefore, about discrimination, equality or generally human rights lately are, they're spoken of in all kinds of ways and are often spoken of in a way that goes in favor of the exact opposite. And that's why this report is an excellent opportunity to talk in a very objective way about all these social problems. It may not be necessary to list everything since we do not have enough time, since the report has about 250 pages, but what should certainly be apostrophe. The big problem is poverty in the sense that pensioners, and this is what we see today's news has become the newest for the EC to become a category that barely has a decent life. Of course, on the other hand, young people don't believe that you can get to honest work without a hitch. On the one hand, the judiciary has been seen as corrupt with honorable exceptions as well as politics and public administration. And if we add to that all the strong divisions and the constant hate speech in the public space without sounding resonated, we can conclude on the basis of this report that Croatian society is in a very delicate situation. But these aren't all the sins of all the political elites, although the vast majority can be attributed to the sins of past bad policies and to self-versing politicians who are now coming to our charge, who have been piling up for years. Of course, that chest is growing and it's got everything on it and everything and now it's rolling hard and here we are, we see the consequences. We read about these consequences every day in the newspaper and some of us may live up to these consequences or are not immune to them. So this entire report is about 250 pages, and it's about one word, human rights. He deals with how not to suppress the same, he deals with how to fight discrimination, against hate, against injustice, against oppression of freedom, against inequality, against inequality both before law and before justice, and in employment and social injustice and all other forms of the simplest words of human rights violations. And one of the specifics of the Croatian public space that has been around lately is that often human rights are spoken of in a way that is just being suppressed. And often under the battle for human rights, it hides antagonism or discrimination against a vulnerable group in society, and we've heard it from exposure, from the previous presentation of a colleague. And when we talk about human rights, we know well that human rights and equality in society are not dependent on anyone's race or ethnicity or religion. And we can't talk about human rights in a way that gives people more rights and give other people less rights. I mean, what kind of approach would that be, so anyway, and the history of humanity shows us that it's the best basis for conflict, for violence, and ultimately for genocide. So we reject every thought that human rights for one group would be greater and for another group smaller. And just as history should be our life teacher, so politics should learn from the mistakes of the previous ones. And as for the political will to fight discrimination and equality then it is also necessary to honestly say that it is not now lagging behind and we have seen it from several recorded examples. But we are also aware that it is not enough to just adopt documents but also of course implement them, but what is equally important is that there is a healthy social will for the equality of all in society. And in order to make this easier, it is also important that people who do not participate in political life, so experts, people who are relieved of political belongings on these issues of equality, equality in Croatian society talk about public space and in the media and thus raise collective positive awareness in the society in which we live. Let's say that the Council of Europe pointed to a significant drop in trust in the institutions of EU member states, including Croatia. And it's been going on for a few years. And that's also one of the obstacles to achieving the so-called. legal certainty. I'm not going to talk about expensive and long-term court proceedings that actually keep citizens from looking for sometimes legal protection. Of course, the member states are making great efforts and it is obvious that Croatia could do better here. We know that the subject of human rights dealing with this comprehensive report has so far been written tons and tons of books, essays, articles and yet we are still in trouble with respect for fundamental human rights by fighting discrimination regardless of what we are in technologically modern 2018. And I don't agree with those discussions they say, as they did in recent years, and I remember Croatia well as some black hole in Europe and the place of the worst violation of human rights. We're not the worst place to break human rights. And there is reason to be very concerned, but one part of human rights violations is not at all a Croatian-specific, it is a specific and more developed European country without talking about the world. So we have problems, they're all here neatly numbered and no one deny that they exist. Of course not all of them are specific to Croatia. Some are specific, others are equal to other countries, but it depends on us how successfully we fight their resolution year after year. And I hope that the purpose of these recommendations from the attorney general will be that the institutions deal with them as much as possible. Because it's not the purpose of the attorney general's report, we all know it well, that we are now discussing here in the Assembly, but rather the purpose of making these recommendations as much as possible and adopting them at a practical level. In that sense, I would also, on behalf of the HDZ Club, praise the work of the Ombudsman and her office, and I hope, as I said, that from year to year of this recommendation, which is extensive and quality, will be increasingly accepted, of course, depending on the financial means, but in any case, political will is also important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86013	Thank you, colleague Irene. Next on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club is counterpart Dragana Jeckov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86014	Dear Vice President of the Parliament. The esteemed attorney general with his associates, state secretary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. So we have before us a report by the attorney general for 2017, which we consider a comprehensive document that reflects very precisely the situation in which we are. In this report I congratulate you sincerely and heartily, especially in the section relating to recommendations for which you will certainly have a co-worker in the SDSS Club for implementing recommendations. So we have a report with the content that stands out, we will recognise a critical approach, a critical approach that is justified and talks about the state of society and issues in which citizens' rights are decided, so whether it is to protect their rights, whether it is to talk about the implementation of any individual law that works the state mechanism. The 2017 report says that citizens face the same problems as before, with a particularly alarming fact that the Ombudsman pointed out, which is that as many as one fifth of citizens live at risk of poverty. In 2017 it was handled in 5,203 cases of which 3,793 were opened by complaints of citizens or their initiative. The most numerous remarks are in 2017 in the field of labour and service relations, then justice, discrimination, and complaints are also numerous in the field of health and violation of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, police, security services and others. When it comes to the state and work relating to the judiciary, the prosecutor made as many as 28 recommendations. We are here without significant changes compared to last year's report because we must realise that citizens continue to show dissatisfaction and question their addresses about justice, but also the legality of the measurement decisions taken in court or administrative proceedings. A large number of complaints also concern the length of court proceedings and irregularities in the conduct of them. A few times mentioned problem of free legal aid that loses its purpose and purpose of existence, which is respected by counterpart Pusic and spoke about. Thus, in addition to insufficient funding for primary legal aid providers, the funds are insufficient, and they are only paid at the end of the year, which almost causes the collapse of associations dealing exclusively with the provision of free legal assistance. And besides, it's threatened, like I said, the right to access justice. The problem of reduced funding with the problem of availability and coverage affects just the ones most marginalised and socially isolated. So if you are a member of the minority community, returnee, along with other obstacles to age, traffic isolation, the area of Like, Banija and Korduna is hardly available free legal assistance and protection mechanism. In your report, the esteemed Attorney General, you have paid particular attention to hatred as a motive for committing an illegal act is still underrecognizable and inadequate or not being processed at all. According to DORH and MUP data, as well as earlier years, the most crimes are motivated by national or ethnic origin, and the most frequent threats are property damage and physical attacks. A total of 277 complaints on discrimination were received, and 113 related to the field of labour and employment, then to the area of information, media and access to goods and services, etc. On the basis of discrimination, most of them are related to race, ethnicity, skin color and national origin, and then to the age stated in each fourth complaint, so we have multiple discrimination. The survey suggests that discrimination is much more present than the complaints and the number of court proceedings have been referred to because as many as 68% of people do not even report discrimination, which is, out of ignorance, out of inaccessibility through a system of free legal aid or simply because of the mistrust of citizens in the judiciary or because of fears of possible consequences. So according to Eurobarometer, every third person in Croatia is said to have experienced one form of discrimination that may not even recognize it. The problem of not reporting discrimination among minority groups is serious and deep. This is particularly visible in the tender for work, so if I complain I will never actually get a job, and on the other hand, poverty and lack of financial resources influences not to launch court proceedings. That is how the report points out, and it is also necessary for this speaker to say that the requirements for limiting the rights of national minorities appear again, which is a process that continues after we have joined the EU. Although a broad spectrum of minority rights is normably regulated, they should not be applied or difficult to apply, and no sanctions are actually prescribed for non-application of the law, so that they do not have a binding force. It was therefore also warned of the inconsistency of the application of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the inadequate action and response to discrimination. I will pay particular attention here to freedom of use, freedom of use of minority language and letter and education in minority language, so that freedom of use of Serbian language and letters in the Republic of Croatia remains far from the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities of the prescribed possibilities. When it comes to minority education, registration of minority schools in Vukovar and obstruction of the transfer of founding rights, is constantly being transferred, in fact, there is and constantly shifts responsibility between units of local self-government or county self-government and the ministry. There's one here to be picturesque, ping-pong situation where no one's guilty, and 20 years has not solved the issue of minority school registration. For this, of course, there is a legal basis, so in 2014 the Law on Education and Education under which counties are obliged to transfer founding rights to local self-government units in the case of a school institution in which the teaching is carried out in the language and letter of the national minority. That is exactly the kind of request for the transfer of rights by the municipalities of Negoslavci, Borovo and Markusica, and the county of Vukovar-Srijemska, which is the founder of all schools by law, has not put the debate on this subject on the agenda for more than 3.5 years, nor has the county issue been manifested, which was under obligation within 60 days to decide on the transfer of founding rights. At the request of today, no action has been taken, and the consequences of the formal-legal non-definition of these schools are felt in their daily activities. It makes schooling difficult for students, and schools and employees prevent normal work and development. Furthermore, in the report in 2017 we have a prominent increase in the number of ethnically motivated hate and violence speech. So we have situations in practice that there are numerous failures in sanctioning perpetrators of hate crimes and calling for violence and hatred. The majority of them are inappropriately qualified by the police or by the State's attorneys as offences or as criminal offences of minor importance. Inappropriate graphites continue to exist and numerous examples have been recorded, therefore, when they are not removed, nor are they actually intruding to anyone. Also, it is an opportunity to mention the recommendation you made, and as regards the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the power grid in return areas, where the issue of the low-voltage recovery and reconstruction programme in the war-related areas was due to be completed in 2008. We're still in a situation where we don't have, that there are villages and villages where electricity and water still hasn't come, and there are citizens who seem to be telling a story from ancient times because, therefore, water only have the one from the well. The same problem is with roads and public transport or going to a health clinic in the city, to mail or to a bank you can only arrive if someone takes you by car because over the summer the bus does not come to your place or existing lines have been lifted. The problems related to unequal infrastructure development, including this recommendation from the Ombudsman's staff, which refers to the need for more intensive access to re-electrication and points to the needs of amending the Social Care Act, on the possession or use of a foreign vehicle, and to the use of a uniformity of the transport isolation criteria. For the end, it is not too much to mention that the institution of the occupier, and in this case, the attorney general, is certainly important, that the Constitution says that it is the authority of the Croatian Parliament. The important job of the Ombudsman should continue to be done in exactly this way, so criticalally, with the recommendations offered, because in the legal theory of the Ombudsman’s staff, or the Ombudsman’s institute, is a kind of control. State control regarding the treatment of its citizens. Therefore, the government and the state institutions should accept constructive criticism and recommendations and correct what is wrong not because it is requested by the attorney general, but because these recommendations and their demands relate to irregularities and real problems. So it's not because it's what the attorney general wants, but because it's what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are looking for. As I said, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support your report, especially the part relating to the recommendations, and you will have an associate in their implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86015	Thank you to my colleague, Jeckov. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, counterpart Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86016	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Parliament. Once again, the esteemed attorneys with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, we have before us a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2017 which will be supported by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. So we give this report a positive assessment for a number of reasons. First of all, it really systematically points to a number of years, and for this year 2017, therefore, as a body does its job and points to a violation of the fundamental human rights of citizens and thus shows that the Office of the Attorney General is actually carrying out its basic task, which is to protect human rights for us, all of us citizens. I think you'd all agree with me if I said that we'd like the attorney general to actually have none of this and that really human rights are protected to anyone, that she doesn't really have to work on it, unfortunately, but it's probably going to be. So her, the role of this office will still be and will exist because I say unfortunately violations of fundamental human rights in our society still exists. Secondly, it points to all situations where human rights violations are possible, which also works on the prevention and education of citizens to respect other people, respect for diversity, respect for others and different ones. Similarly, this report makes recommendations as well as every year, compared to earlier in the year, this year more recommendations, 231 recommendations with clear measures that should be done by the Government on this issue, and all of us are actually expensive and all of these measures and recommendations is a unique goal of protecting citizens and their rights, our rights. So from all this, it's true and I agree with other colleagues and colleagues that the Attorney's Office has done its job and is doing its job because we see it from everything that's been written, from everything that's been said so far. But what we are concerned about and what should concern us all together, and that is the question of how much of it is actually done, how much of these recommendations are heard, how much of it seems to improve, to make something different, to actually solve human rights violations problems. Unfortunately, I'd say yes, and that's what we've witnessed through this statistical data that not much has been done and that maybe it's not done enough because how to say otherwise if it's actually done out of just 16% of the recommendations that are implemented, just 16%. So of all of those 230 or last year, which was, for the last year, the previous report 220, so of all those in the implementation is 16% which is actually very little. It is either that recommendations are not taken seriously enough or that there is actually no power to deal with those bad things in our society that result in violations of the rights of citizens. All of these, therefore, as the Ombudsman herself says, are in fact the aim of all these recommendations is to prevent violations of citizens' rights and their implementation is one of the ways in which long-term improvements in quality of life in Croatia, and this is, in fact, insufficiently recognised in the context of demographic renewal and eviction and halting emigration. Yes, because just young people, we are responsible for their, therefore, health and their perception of the world and their status and their standard and their life and responsibility for that, for creating the atmosphere that is in our society. And if she's such that she leads to apathy, if she's such that she doesn't make the whole atmosphere optimistic enough, this society doesn't make those young people sufficiently involved in solving all these problems, then it's really about not working enough. But here we are today, when we are discussing the report by the attorney general, we are actually witnessing an effort to reduce minority rights by a referendum. And it's not just national minorities, it's women's rights. That is precisely why the referendum seeks to repeal the already adopted Istanbul Convention, which is aimed only at preventing and preventing violence against women. Likewise, the aim of these ideas is also to deal with LGBT community members, all those who are different by birth definition, or from their own, so different from the idea of marriage by some groups. Therefore, we in the SDP, too, believe that issues such as the reduction of the rights of citizens, tax systems, budgets, implementation of obligations between national contracts, defence issues of national security and the issues of appointments and elections in the Croatian Parliament are actually not supposed to be held in the referendum. Unfortunately, therefore, this report has a negative sign in many areas of citizens' lives for several reasons. This report shows that it is still a large number of cases and that, as is evident by comparison during the year 2012 because although the total, as it writes, although the total number of cases has fallen slightly compared to 2016 for some 4.2%, it remains large and in figures, there are 5203 cases. What the report also shows is that a large number of cases, shows that hate speech and intolerance, according to different groups, opinions, remained as previous years. There is a lack of dialogue, of quality debates, but also of lack of rapid public condemnation of such content, and all of this actually contributes to the atmosphere of universal empathy. And that is why we really need not be surprised when young people will leave us, not only because of better working conditions, but also because of life in an environment that accepts diversity and which will also be decorated with greater optimism. We, just before, are also in the Attorney General's report, so I will mention it in this place, heard that and that is one of the really crucial examples and speech of hatred or impatience, expressions of impatience, exactly the greeting for home prepared and that very little has been done on this issue, and I will remind you that the SDP Club has handed over more than 25 MPs more than a year ago, 19.4.2017, an interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in connection with the frequent abuse of Ustasha greetings for home prepared. So we're going back to that very beginning and what we're saying, does this government seem enough to change something about human rights? The SDP club has not only submitted this document, which is also related to what we are talking about today, has submitted a number of other documents, which are heading towards solving the problem, and are also affecting the improvement of the human rights of citizens in the Republic of Croatia. In a report of this magnitude where human rights violations are perceived in all areas of life, it is difficult to choose the area that is more important, because for a man is exactly the example or what happens to him, in fact, the most important thing. But here we will again point out where these areas were the most or most objects, so we can say with that and most of all there were violations of human rights. So, above all, there are working relationships, work and work and work relations, then justice, discrimination, and health care. So we would say that it is really fundamental areas of human life, extremely important for every citizen of our country. That's why, I say, here, we take, when I say to everyone what's most important, then I take these statistics, but further I say, to every man it's his violation, what happens to him is the most important thing. I'll be here because it's really very little time, when you see how much the report is, and other than that, how extensive the recommendations are, then in these discussions we can talk about only a few areas, so here, I'm going to stress here what has already been highlighted through previous discussions, but it's really important. It is important to stress that a fifth of the population in the Republic of Croatia is at risk of poverty, so a fifth of citizens and that is the area, that is what the government must take care of. We mention that even when I talked about the 2018 budget and later in all the other debates that were being held on social benefits, I said that the minimum fee was so low that it was actually embarrassing and that it could not be below any human dignity and that it really could not cover those basic needs, these people who are users of minimum compensation. Unfortunately, that amendment was not accepted by the government. Likewise, we went, so, SDP also proposed an increase in children's allowances, which should not actually be a social compensation, but when there is at this point, therefore, every child should receive an extra charge for children, however, when there is already a need to go to an increase, because precisely children from these families, who are at risk of poverty, have the smallest child's allowance and actually the recipients, the families are the recipients of guaranteed minimum fees, and therefore any increase in them would be the most important. As far as working relationships are concerned, it is already mentioned that work for a certain time is one of the perceived problems, however, I would say that it is not just work for a certain time, because it is also about other countries, which have even more people working for a certain time, but are fully able to change their jobs, change jobs, and therefore we need to work, in fact, in my view, on overall economic growth to improve this situation, and it would also affect the respect for human rights itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86017	Thank you to my colleague Maria Alfirev, next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86018	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Advocates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the HNS Club will, of course, accept this report. As I said at the beginning, certainly this sort of thing, we have to and should use that amount of statistical indicators that it gives us here, we have to access it properly. Of course, to solve every single case that has come to you, that is, before you as an attorney general, but above all, as one, lax paper, an indicator, in which segments may need to change the framework. The framework to solve the systemic problem, as we have seen here, when we look at statistics in 2017 almost 2531 I think a new subject, the vast majority come back the judiciary is mentioned again, labour rights and pension relations, if we look at it again, which is related to the rights achieved. So we see that some things are discrimination, that some things, let's say, for years, have been changing at the top, a little, one more, the other less, but they make up a great majority of the complaints that our citizens have, or maybe sometimes they are ignorances in their rights, which we should definitely approach them. This is also said in the report in providing legal assistance, as it is not available, as people do not know, do not know how to use it, etc. Obviously, one of the essentials is to carry out educational activities, how to introduce people to their rights and how to achieve them and why. I think that's the key. What I would like here to apostrophe from this report that even a fifth of citizens live at risk of poverty, which is, of course, the most expressed in rural parts of the country, especially when we talk about space, that is, part of Croatia, where I, Slavonia and Baranja, think there is one of the burning problems. To this is being added, now current, these days, demographic policy and measures, and I will say here and here, so we absolutely have to use this as indicators in our further work, law preparation and all that we need to do, but the best demographic measure is a quality and successful economic policy. Of course, the reasons for the depopulation are not only economic, because by that logic, the most successful economic states would have an extraordinary birth rate and they wouldn't have a problem in demographic terms, but we here need to know, that young people are leaving us, along with their families, future generations, and that now, our burning problem, in the short term, but most, even more, perhaps even in the long term. Here it says that, of course, the report mentions, when we talk about poverty and rural development, there is no necessary infrastructure, public transport, shelter, popular cuisine, of course, that municipalities have no fiscal capacity, to ensure that if we talk about both kindergartens and all those standards that are normal, that people first, what happens to us, go from village to larger environments, into cities, and then our people go away again, in if we talk about Slavonia and Baranja in Zagreb, and now more and beyond Croatia. This is what is crucial and what is sure, then would be, if we could refer to work and service relations, which are the most represented here, so it says, that employees in the public and private sector. So here I was surprised to hear that there's talk about the public sector, because I think it's an offended opinion that these are always public sector workers protected as face bears, that you can't give him anything, that only you can walk away with death or your own departure is so collectively what I'm saying. Here we now see that they often say public and private sectors often make unfavourable work contracts for a specified time, work without paid salaries or consent to pay minimum salaries on the current account, and the rest on the hands, and illegal overtime, and point to abuse of work. I think most of this applies to private, but it's also listed publicly, so it's a little bit of new information to me. However, what is important and what I want to absorb, when we talk about equal opportunities for all, is that and I will read it, citizens are deeply convinced that public services are not equally available to everyone, and that the tendering for employment is being examined exclusively for the purpose of fulfilling the form, because of non-transparent, selective procedures in which candidates are chosen solely by the basis of the documentation delivered or possibly the conversation made, leaving significant existential space. So, ladies and gentlemen, what we all know all the time, we all know, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're talking, we're political, we're economic, we're private, we're family, whatever, but what, why our people are leaving is because of that, maybe even the whole atmosphere in which no one is even trying to contact somewhere anymore, because they know that maybe even unjustly, that this is more or less all of a solution... Here we should also look for a solution, why not a single evaluation, we have here an agency that conducts an external evaluation graduation, why not one way of selecting procedures at the level of all Croatia, equal for all public sector employees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if you want to enter a municipality, a city, work there, indefinitely, you have to pass the contest, and then... you can move within a state, public or state apparatus based on a contract or even by calling free seats, which are made available, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe that solution, but it's listed here, I think it absolutely reflects the picture and state, right now where we are, not that we're here for the last six months or the last year and a half, it wasn't any better, not before 50, 30 or 15 or 10 or 5. It's one of our post-transition gains that we need to get rid of quickly and quality and provide people with the possibility of a decent salary where they live because then we're going to have this demographic measure, and we're not just talking to the public right now, it's not so much a public sector problem, because it's the most ideal one, everyone wants to work in some public sector, so they're quiet for the rest of their lives, and don't worry and don't be smart because it's like some standing up like that, they see here I'm getting rid of somewhere. When we become the private sector the one that will give us the criteria, choose the people themselves whether they graduated from one or the other or the third college, when you go to work in the public service, paper is important, when you go to work with a private person, knowledge, ability is important, and if the profession is where that paper comes from. And he has a right to say see, I know that university, university, school, college, whatever, I don't have good experience and I regret it, I'll accept someone else better. When that sector grows, then our picture will grow differently. So that's what I believe the great reason and the very reasons for these statements almost 300, 301 as much as the complaint about working and official relations, I think that, of course, there are others, I will not, of course, read everything. I'm saying what we can see is that we can certainly refer to ourselves, watch what people are doing, get the most out of it, and get it in line with our legislation and what we want. The reform of local and regional regional self-government would disagree with what it says. It says here that under the new law on local and regional, it means everything is good, but it's not that we always have to agree, there won't be any bogeyman if we say that we may agree with something, I at least see that the Law on Local, Regional Regional Self-Government, which gives partial solutions and which strengthens the position of the executive local leaders against the representative bodies of citizens, which threatens the foundations of representative democracy at local level. So that's where we had the conflict when we decided to directly elect executive authority, chief, mayor, mayor. Then in the first part after the first 2009 or '13. years, +9. Is that so, for a long time, there has been a problem with relations, who appoints congregations, or which congregations in trade societies, who has supervisory committees, which they are responding to, and then the original interpretation was a representative body and then there was a blockade in work, relationship, stalemate, and then it started a new legislative change where it was said that the mayor who was directly elected, with the greatest legitimacy if we speak here, because then we can challenge the legitimacy of the president of the state with the same logic, say that the prime minister has greater legitimacy because he is elected by Parliament, and not by the president directly elected by the citizens, that he still has this directly elected representative of all that legitimacy to implement. And you know what that's like? When he's a good mayor, we'd give him as much authority as we can. When he's bad, he'd move if he couldn't do anything. It's always like that. Unfortunately, we can't have a selective approach, but it has to be the same for everyone. So here you would not agree that we have to work on a new reform of the units of local self-government, that, in a way that, precisely from that part of the rural development and all of it, the same approach, the same conditions of life and all of it, the communal standards, the educational, everything so that the child from the village has equal access and education and all of this, and someone from the center of Zagreb, that is the goal and that must be it. But here he would not quite agree that it threatens the foundations of representative democracy, a defect if it is put in a certain position where it can control, bring the budget further, we know that it can cause elections for both its body and the mayor himself, and now I don't think it should be seen as a bad thing. As far as education is concerned, what I am pleased to hear is mentioned here, but it is not clear to me just how, if we are talking about 2017, it is said that the Croatian qualification framework of the HKO Act has been passed, it has been passed this year, and here it is mentioned one rule, so that it is in the process so we are just not clear where it has now succeeded in entering the report in the last year, but I think it is clear why we have chosen education as the main adjective of our focus within this Parliament and this Government because there is absolutely the most and most work and effort needed there, but we are talking about the future of our children and our country. So as far as the regulation itself which has been stated here has not been passed, the Regulation on the recognition and evaluation of informal and informational learning, so if in the 3rd month I think we passed this new HKO Act, so the documents of the National Council for the Development of Human Resources must then be adopted, when it is done, it will be the basis for the adoption of the rules on evaluation, so it goes with its own procedure. I know that a lot of people might have expected that when we announced that we were going to do this, that everything would be settled in 3 months, I'd most like to get rid of the entire educational reform in 3 months and that everything now is wonderful, wonderful, great and wonderful, but something 25 years old can't be done overnight. And to end, just what I mentioned in the replica, so where there are, of course, the problems of protecting the rights of national minorities, I even quoted what it says in the report itself, and that would link it to what is happening today, that civilization's reach as we act, and here it's very well said that the majority's relationship to the minority is one of the most important measures of democracy of society. I think our people, unfortunately, who went to work outside, will best be able to see how they feel as members of a particular minority. We don't have to talk straight here about national minorities, we can talk about any minorities, sexual, age, by place of residence, etc. how they feel in some majority system, and I think that each of us has experienced, at least in one part of life, what it's like to be a minority. And I'm just asking these people to think about it, to remember and to see, especially in the light of these referendum issues, and not to take a step back, but to reach you, the civilizational ones that we have achieved, where we are, to move forward, and we have much more important issues here in the country, as we see from these reports that we have to deal with and do, rather than the issue of someone's bankruptcy rights and minority rights. Here's another conclusion, the HNS Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86019	Thank you. We'll end the discussion on behalf of the clubs. We start with individual debates, first individual debate, colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86020	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the lawyer's report is exhaustive, giving a lot of information, and I would refer to what I highlighted in my replica, and I think it is not sufficiently highlighted in the report and, despite the fact that it is part of the prosecutor for gender equality, I think it is also a very important area, which should be dealt with by the attorney general, because Croatia, in this area, in the field of discrimination of women on the labour market, is far behind Europe. Because despite the fact that we in Croatia have a good, legally well-regulated all the things that concern us, who is entitled to equal pay, by comparing the salary between men and women, it is evident that women's salaries are lagging behind and what is simple, to show in what form and how they are lagging behind, that women work for free from 2 November to the end of the year, which means they work 59 days longer for the same salary as men. Unlike the EU, the difference between men and women's salaries is around 7.4% while in Europe that is somewhere and over 20% of the average is somewhere above 10%. The fact that we have less than the EU average should not involve us, that the situation in Croatia is significantly better. Women in their working life face lower earnings with lower earnings per hour compared to men have fewer paid hours than men, and lower employment rates. Women in a large number of cases, due to maternity and maternity leave, child care and the elderly, members and families, have a career break-up and therefore have a lower salary, but what is also frantic, therefore they have less pension than men with the same professional training and the same internship. The average difference in total earnings in Croatia is around 23%, while the EU's average differences are about 41%. Except in material form, women are unequal, with men and in leading positions, because looking at each sector, then you see that there is that phenomenon of glass ceiling, that women come to certain positions, but there are very few women in top management positions, companies. Women on average take more unpaid jobs than men, women work shorter and often part-time, so that they can comply with their family and professional obligations. The possibility for women to progress in jobs and receive higher wages also affects their family responsibilities. The difference between men's and women's salaries increases when women have children and work part-time. Of the 3 women on the labour market, at least 1 does not work full-time, while only 1 out of 10 men does the same. Women, because of their reproductive role, and childcare, are much more inclined to break out of a certain period from the labour market, and other than the height of the captain, these interruptions have a very significant impact on the career itself of women. All the problems women face in the labour market can be seen from the attorney's own report, I will focus on 2 problems, one that is related to discrimination against women, especially young women in the labour market, who are not only discriminated against by gender, but also by age. Men are not asked whether they will start motherhood, whether they will have a family, women ask themselves very often, and that is something that in Croatian society should also be done by a lawyer but also by us in the Assembly and the whole society, try to show employers that this is harmful, harmful policy for society and that employers should be more responsible for society and especially for women in the labour market. The second cause of discrimination against women on the labour market lies in the fact that employers who give contracts for a certain period of time and these consecutive contracts per month, which is inadmissible and punishable under the Labour Act, unfortunately, are not punished and this established practice continues to be implemented. I note that the HDZ majority did not raise their hand by 2 laws that should have had an impact on making there as few contracts in Croatia as possible for a certain time. I am sorry that the SDP colleagues did not recognize it either, but there will be a time when it will come to the awareness that if we do not go differently in Croatia, legislative regulation, we will go to reduce the number of contracts to a certain time, which are affected by the wave of young women and young people on the labour market. Contracts at a certain time are not only harmful to those who are employed in such a way, but are harmful to the whole society, because the employer is not, he is not in the interest of educating this young woman or this young man further, so that they can get better jobs and make better progress, therefore, contracts for a certain time are a monster that should be removed in Croatia. On this occasion, I would use this stage to point to two measures that would further improve the status of women on the labour market. One increase in part-time benefits from 50 to 80%, with an increase in maternity leave fees, it is also necessary to increase the amount for parents who have decided to use parental leave half full-time, this makes sense as we wish to stimulate parents to return to the world of work and work with half full-time, if it suits them with the aspect of reconciliation of professional and family life The second proposal goes in favour of the the need to monitor the flexibility of working relationships and I believe that the conditions for achieving parental support should be changed, compared with those who have interruptions in working relationships. In fact, one of the proposals is that 18 months of work is accounted for in another period of time, rather than as it is now two years, for this period to be 5 years, it is something that would have an impact especially on young women who, because of their own, so what they do and because they have consecutive speeches for a certain time, allow them to have a decent fee. Furthermore, the issue of demographics has become extremely important in the context of Croatia's immigration abroad and as one of the problems that workers mention is also the problem of the possibility of a flexible working-time organisation that would enable workers to reconcile their business and private obligations. In the Labour Act there is a possibility and it is used by increasingly flexible working-time organisations, but it is based on that employers are those who determine how to use working time to amend the Labour Act, which, I say, is not supported by the majority in this House, should also enable the worker himself, or the worker, to organise working time according to his family needs, and not to disturb the process that the company or some office have. These are all things that are not big, which do not require major legislative changes, but can allow for the start of thinking in Croatia and talking about the need to reconcile professionally and familyly and thus create a more favourable climate that would lead to citizens staying in Croatia and not going outside Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86021	Thank you. We have one replica. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86022	My dear colleague, Mrs. Gristle. So you mentioned in yours, you looked back on the position of women on the labour market and in fact at one proven and large inequality relative to men who come first from one work that is often interrupted, that is, a lifetime which is often interrupted and on the other side of lower incomes. So here I would say that, in recent years, in particular, we have witnessed trends, I would say, using European funds in particular, means through EU projects, and in order to solve various social problems, we are actually still creating another injustice because many of these projects are aimed at hiring women for a certain time, especially in those interests. Like a nurse who's highly underpaid. [[Intruder Doncic: Thank you.]] [[/Intruder Dončič: Thank you, answer. Here's your answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86023	Thank you very much, dear colleague Alfirev. Yes, it is this programme of wishes that Minister Pavić is extremely promoting, where we will spend billions of kuna, and that women will work for 2 years, and then the question of what after that, which is that policy that should not be implemented in Croatia. What this home should do is solve problems, so here's one of the problems that can be very simply solved is the question of pensions, women because they have a absence from the labour market, they have because their average is smaller than men, they have a smaller pension, and they work at the same time. By amending the Pension Insurance Act, we can resolve this part that women in the future are fostered by children, older members of their family or not in the labour market, have pensions as well as men. It's something this House should do very quickly, I hope and adopt, but I don't believe with the government working fast.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86024	Thank you, buddy, thank you. Next individual debate, colleague Branimir Bunjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86025	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, esteemed attorneys with co-workers and state ministers, my apologies. I would like to look back on the demographic problem, which is also highlighted in this report because the situation, already catastrophic, desperate, Croatia literally dies in front of our eyes, but unfortunately it will be even worse. This is what it is to say, that the main emigration wave, i.e. the wave of emigration, is yet to be expected in the next 5 years, is expected to leave Croatia another 500,000 citizens and of course those citizens who can contribute most, and these are working citizens, young, young families together with their children. It is assumed that in the next 20 years of the Slavonian municipality, a particular county will lose up to 60% of its population. That young people will make up only 12% of the population, i.e. that the elderly will be 2 and 3 times more than young people, which means that this ratio that we have now is approximately 1;1 persons employed by pensioners will be even more unfavourable, in fact there will be probably 2 or maybe 3 pensioners per 1 employee. This will probably be Croatia according to HDZ, which is very important to say, so the party that destroyed Croatia in just 3 decades. It is amazing that at the time of one human life, damage has been done that did not even cause Turkish conquests. And then in that Croatia will live, the corrupt judges, which SOA does not want, that is, the Prime Minister and the president do not want to change, they do not want to move them, they will live several tycoons, they will live the HDZ presidency, they will live with the arrests and therefore, the elderly. It will be Croatia's future. Of course, such a state will have neither modernity nor independence nor... GDP, employment, or strong companies, will have nothing... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which will depend on the mercy of the world's bankers, and our beautiful country, will be empty for various experiments, which will be able to perform, say, fecking, extraction of gas, oil, planting of GMOs and various constructions, I don't know, ingested LGN terminals, all the other crazy things we hear about the government bullying us every day to bring them in as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We in the Living Wall last year put in the legal procedure a proposal to tax banks, banks that bathe in money, which they illegally acquired, illegally. They took citizens of illegal interest, illegally applied the currency clause, illegally charged compensation. 400 billion kn they took property, and when we said they were only taken 0.6%, you'd be careful with that number, then they'd jump on their back legs, some MPs, the finance ministers, I don't know, who. How dare you to the banks, so you know they're poor, poor people, you wouldn't know them now, push them to the brink of destruction, and nothing would happen to them, nothing, but nothing. Because they bathe in money, they currently have 27 billion kuna surpluses, they don't know where to go with it, they're just bringing out some bonuses. There will be a point of the agenda later, a TIF fund, managers, pension funds, and 150 thousand kunas will be paid. They manage pension social services, while pensioners dig through garbage, while 1180,000 pensioners who have worked bloody and hard to earn a pension, do not have 1,000 kn pensions, they have 150,000 kuna per month, without any risk, without any work, done the company positively or negatively, they will always have the same salary. It's your Croatian reality. Now HDZs, now they shed crocodile tears, the president tells her to save Croatia, what did she say in early 2017? Who doesn't do well to go, those are her words. Let them move out, that's what Vice President Milian Brkic said, you're not well, leave. Those are their words. People have gone, and now that they've destroyed everything they can, now they say, come back, we would like to be children, we would like to be young, we love Croatia, which hypocrites. What irresponsibleness. Do you know, I know that HDZ representatives who are not there, don't walk the streets of the City of Zagreb, out of 10 people who stop me on the street 8 tell them to be disgusted by living here, disgusted by them. How far did you bring this beautiful land? People don't leave because of pay, people don't leave because of credit, not even executive blocks, people leave because they don't trust this country anymore, because she's had a moral breakdown, because she's loaded with corruption, with party favors, because you young people laugh in the face, you despise them, you make fun of them, you rob them, you humiliate them at every turn. It's a policy that this government conducts and they leave here with joy on their faces, with a smile on their faces. They leave and say proudly, I'll never come back here again, I can't watch you again. Your representatives in this House can't look at you, nor can the Ministers of Government, nor the Secretary of State or the Directors of the Agency. You did evil and now you say you'd save me, it's too late now. And it's gonna be worse and you're gonna cry tomorrow, when you're not gonna have a pension and you're gonna cry tomorrow, when you're not gonna have health care, and when you're not gonna have anyone to change and fold and I don't know what kind of services you're gonna need. And so be it. You don't deserve any better. That's the reality of this report for the attorney general, who she wrote, I congratulate her on her courage, she told the truth. And we from the Living Wall will support this report just because it's true. Further what other people complain about, they complain about the territorial structure, which the territorial structure. Imagine, one Austria has 9 million inhabitants, 70 municipalities. 70 municipalities, Slovakia has 80 municipalities, Denmark 100 municipalities, these are super rich countries, with two three times as many inhabitants as Croatia, and we have 428 municipalities, be careful. Austria has 15 cities, we have 128 cities. We're just multiplying drones, parasites, arrests, parties, who then steal from the same party line in public procurement, stealing, taking cash. Here's a public procurement from last week 40 hours of word exchange rate 50,000 kuna, by whom do you lie? What's that word for 50,000 kuna? Well, the word's got a 5-6-year-old kid working in it. They are bought in public purchases of kilos of apples of 30 kn reportedly cost and farmers cannot get 4 kn per pound of apples. Where does that difference go? It's known where on off-shore accounts on trust accounts, on Rolex watches, on Meybahe, Mercedes, on vacations in the Caribbean or I don't know in the Seattles. It's our public administration, it's our state, unable to pursue what's unnecessary. You can't provide quality services from such a fragmented territorial administration. Most of these units of local self-government don't have to pay for their heads, let alone start kindergartens, start school kitchens, establish a home of health, build roads for those who don't have money for it. Then they come to beg the state, then make up all kinds of fees, excise fees, taxes, skin peels for citizens who already don't have no money to pay for all that nonsense but don't have to direct, they don't have bread. Does anyone have the courage to make a territorial reshuffle? What is this Minister Kuščević doing in the ministry anyway? Say, 90% of municipalities don't need to have any... Go ahead, take it off, remove that party machine, give it money for the kids, for the pensioners, for the palitative care, for the nursing homes or anything. Wake up, Croatia dies in front of your eyes, and all you care about is the pay coming in time, and preferably nothing you do about it. Shame, let shame be both HDZ and SDP and all their satellites that have brought the country into this catastrophic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86026	We have three replicas to present our colleagues. The first is Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86027	Comrade Bunjac, you spoke about everything in your presentation, but you were the least aware of the attorney's report. And what I expected in your Vehemental address to the Croatian public is to apologize to all those you have led astray not to vaccinate children because you and your statements where you promoted that in Croatia you should not be vaccinated to what we have now. You as a responsible politician should know that your spoken word has weight, and if at least at this point you can apologize to the Croatian public that you have been misleading because that children should be vaccinated and that vaccination is something that keeps us from infectious diseases, and not only that but also keeps our tourism successful this year. So I was expecting a good apology, unfortunately we're probably not going to get one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86028	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86029	Mrsic, for the measles problem, it is your fault personally and your members of the SDP who destroyed the Immunological Institute, you stole there, your appointed directors. We had the best measles vaccine on the globe according to WHO's license, but it was important that you appointed director steal money from him, to pay hay for horses, and the horse is gone. It's not just the measles problem, we don't have the antidote today, we don't have the antidote for black widows, it's all your fault. You've read the report of the Living Wall on the Immunological Institute. Did I destroy the Immunological Institute, did I not, Agent Pernar? It's someone. Who? Why isn't there a quality vaccine? Were you the Minister of Health or I don't know it was St. Peter? What have you done?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86030	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Alexic Goran.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86031	Thank you. Comrade Bunjac, not everything is black. And what's not black pink is, pink is all that's going on around the Franak Association since 2011 and here I'm going to tell you the freshest news, today it's announced by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that there's no outdated claim of overpaid interest for debtors who sue banks. So that's the verdict we've been waiting for for for a very long time and it's been passed today, and it allows 120,000 people to go to court, press charges, and it gets all the overpaid money in the name of an increase in interest rates. So here in the Croatian Parliament now I call on all MPs and MPs who are and who are not here to in the next period when the High Court of Commerce finds that the unfair currency clause CHF is a systematic solution to the problem, not to send people to the courts and to be harassed there for years until they reach their own money. This must be resolved by the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86032	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86033	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Alexic, you have kind of answered your own question. First of all, the basic question is, who even let that happen, who let that happen? I guess he'll say representative Mrsic, living wall. Some governments have allowed it, and now that crime has been found to have occurred, that illegalities have occurred, why must citizens now go to court? You know how much the courts cost, you know how long the court proceedings will take, do you know how many citizens don't have 2, 3 or 5,000 kunas for the composition of the lawsuit, for the art, for all those actions that it takes to get to the hearing? That's a big problem. If we had a state government, the state government would, after this verdict you have now stated, by law tomorrow allow citizens to return their money, but they will not do it for a simple reason because they know that 120,000 citizens will not be sued, but only a few hundred lawsuits will be brought in as citizens are uninformed, and they do not have the opportunity to conduct court proceedings themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86034	Thank you. Replica number three, colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86035	The Honorable Chairman. I'd like to say one embarrassing fact, here's my colleague, Bunjac, you know that a lot of people are digging through garbage, living in misery, hard poverty, having miserable wages, miserable wages. And if, for some reason, I just can't do the job they've been doing anymore, if, by any chance, they don't have the right to pay off the stock market even if they're unemployed. Why? They say to a friend, you quit. However, when a minister, Martina Dalic, is under pressure from the affair, accused of channeling millions into the hands of her friends, of writing a law for them, she resigns, and then she gets 166,000 kunas net of that same poor woman who digs through containers. Isn't that a shame? Isn't that an inappropriate way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86036	Thank you, colleague Pernar. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86037	Thank you very much. You see, Agent Pernar, the thing is that if you're in HDZ, you don't even have to be employed, the money's just coming. Here's a financial report from Alex partners, branch of Zagreb, income 100 million kuna, employees of 0, super firm. You can get 100 million kuna without one, but someone's got that money gone, it's in some pockets. And I don't think it's yours, nor do I think it's in someone else's man who's digging through the trash, but it's probably in the pockets of politicians and those who are down with them, and that's a terrible injustice. You know for 100 million kuna a teacher would have to work for about 2,000 years, and someone could get that by signing a feather without doing anything. And then you can be unemployed, here I am, for 100 million kunas, 10 years in prison, which I don't care, I'm unemployed, like these indictees in Bosnia now, which he cares about, 4 years he'll be in jail, 52 million kuna, 2 million a month he'll get.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86038	Thank you, buddy. We're continuing an individual debate. Next debate, Comrade Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86039	Thank you very much. As of last year, I remember here my performance, here she was a lawyer, that I said that the Constitution is not respected in Croatia and that 90% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is not the same and that attention should be paid in this area. The fact is, I must commend it, that the director of her associates was the son of Lokvičić, a meeting with the mayors and citizens in... Lovreč, Lokvičići, was also a meeting at the Sinj High School of Dinko Šimunović. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's important, and here we see that there are reports and recommendations that are given, and here we all agree because the fact that the Constitution right now the first article is clear that we all have to be equal. But here's the question of equality, when we start from... Justice, then we have nothing to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Judges are like sacred cows, they don't have property cards, they don't have property cards in the Supreme Court, there's no property cards, there's no tribune, they act like they want and they want to, of course I'm saying this and not saying that they're all like that, but the fact that justice is the most important element that citizens warn and I'm sorry that it's not a secretary here, it would be good for him to get involved, too, so that the results. But the most painful is health care. From where I come from, from these rural parts, the fact that here, everyone mentions women, we call, and that's what I said in the replica, there's no way for a basic examination to come to order, and that's the ultrasound of the breast, six months waiting, and then six months to enroll, and if they can get into it. It is this carelessness and these health homes have been systematically destroyed in favour of the private. I have nothing against private doctors, institutions, of course, but systematically this social category of health is being destroyed. It is in these areas where it is impossible to come, so of course doctors are running away, but more in these health homes, mainly in the Split-Dalmatia County, there are more arrests and officials than there are specializations and doctors, lack of doctors, and of course it is just a party army of certain parties down, of course HDZ in power probably where SDP is in power that it is similar. Health care is the basis of everything and you have mentioned it here in this report, but if we do not have the strength, the Croatian state to implement, you have done your job, but it is inexecutable. I see here national minorities come from an area where I live with national minorities, in my village personally people of the Serb national minority, really people live hard, as well as people of the Croatian national minority and don't feel well, hard, with all the problems, so I am also the chairman of the local committee where people live, so their basic problems have to be solved, but the fact that they are national minorities, most of them in parliament. And now I don't understand how these people I live with, together who are fantastic, above all patriots, people who have left a great trail from my territory, how at this point most minorities in Parliament are and cannot help that minority. So we've got some disproportionateness here, and we've got some painful yawns about some things. People of Serbian nationality find it hard to live, but Croatian nationalities in the area where I come from. In the same problems, existential, communal, that they were forgotten. In addition to the beautiful theatre speeches of certain representatives in this House of National Minorities, and they don't care about them at all, nor did they come to ask them how you live? Except maybe in pre-election time. And I'm going to give you an example, here you have an example where in the Zadar hinterland, colleague Vučetic can confirm that, it's a cost, an industrial one, rejected in one settlement, Biljani, where living people, older populations mostly, Serbian national minorities, and they don't care at all, nobody, for those people, what the cost is, which is proven to be toxic, which the European Commission will sue Croatia for this cost, means simply people live hard on the ground, there were Serb national minorities, there were majority people or any other minority, because simply except that they use them very well in political promotion, showing great concern and concern for these people, I simply don't see that shift because I live with those people today and I live in the future and I will live in the future because I don't intend to move out of Sinj, from the place... And with these people I plan to live on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the elderly, here yesterday was the County Assembly, the Split-Dalmatia County, and then I look at the issue of the stands to gather nursing homes, for the elderly, and now I'm watching who's the principal? The director is the mayor who was mayor of Omis of HDZ, was here a parliamentary representative who made so much debt in Omis and now came to the nursing home, is the manager of a nursing home in Split, now more of a debt to him than he was in Omis in that nursing home, for what? The problem is that they've been bribed by the nurse, which has been paid for by those older and powerless, rather than by the party machine, the same as in Omis. I still meet today in Omis, after Ivan Kovacic, now the second mayor, still repays his debts, but he for the party card award that the party member became headmaster of the home for the elderly and the powerless. And now you have to gather home to those people who are users, otherwise they're people who are retired. Young, so here's one example I just said was that enough was a party card, one or the other, to hire, and an example of the director of the nursing home, the former mayor of Omis who lost the election, who brought the city into a collapse, he's the director, the rest of them didn't tribal or run, because their chances were minimal. The criteria were competitive, the spectres pitched how much color they needed, the shoe number, everything prescribed correctly. Okay. So these young people just see the imperceptibility and mistrust, I'm not what the Prime Minister says, we can't spread pessimism, not pessimism, but people see it today. The executions, bankruptcys, write-offs, it's a key question, we all call on it, and it's a three-way solution, and I'm sorry that it's not a representative of the Justice Department here, again I repeat these key problems, we've talked a lot about it, but no measures are being taken, and you're what you're saying here I'm signing, I mean, now the question is, you're a lawyer, and in the implementation there's not going to be anything, we'll probably happen next year, if there's this stimulant or some other stimulant thing you've done, and most of it's not a concern, most of it's going to be looking for the victims of Jasenovac, the victims of Bleiburg, it's going to be talked about in front of the elections, and so, they'll remember national minorities, cyal boards and something like that they'll find themselves to be homoized by the left or right or right, they're watching. That's their division, though it shouldn't be shared. Energy poverty, so look at Finland 20 times as much we use solar energy. 200 million kuna per year we invest for heating, a billion and a half kuna we pay for wind power to foreigners, only 13 natural persons in Croatia have received the energy quota so that they can turn the solars on, so we have a solution, the solution is offered. We are not, the esteemed defenders and fellow MPs, allowed to play a film that we would show the exact calculation and how through the Microsoral Act can solve the problem, because the interest groups want the Peruc thermopower plant, they want the monopoly, they want one owner and these lobbys to rule naturally from the center of power, so you remember the Martina Dalić reaction, is the former vice president now, but these are, they don't want to be human, they have this microsolare on their roof or a small wind power plant, they don't want them, they want addicts, they want debtors to do lobby lawyers and so on. There are solutions, but they are not offered. I think demographics are a very important element, but we don't use these potentials and resources, we don't respect the Constitution, you've listed it all here, I see all the problems, the prison system, the political system, you listed, however, here, we're talking. for years, and in first grade textbooks weigh 6 kilos, harder than students [[Intruder Doncic: colleague Bulj, thank you very much.]] [[/Intruder Doncic: Thank you. They're a little less heavy, but it's okay. On this we have one replica, colleague Miranda Mrsic, here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86040	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Bull. And you were talking about health care and how very difficult it is to organise health care in the area, in rural areas, and it is quite agreeable, but today your member of the MOST Mr. Kristic said very clearly that citizens should not comply with the decision of the state, that it is necessary to vaccinate children, but that is a decision given by each parent individually and I think that this is something that you should be very clear in MOST because it is a matter that is not innocent, as you see little strange that Mr. Kristic from a touristic area where an epidemic of mespa may endanger the entire tourist part of Dubrovnik, says that all parents should decide whether to vaccinate or not, so here I hope that you will be against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86041	Thanks, buddy. Otherwise, just one note, this is your third line on the subject. Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86042	Thank you very much. I didn't even hear who you were talking to, so you finally told your colleague, look, I was talking about the problems I was talking about, that's what you're going to ask Mr. Maru Christic. Surely you are one of the culprits as former minister of the health system and other systems because the biggest problems have happened, this is not nostalgia for something else, but for the homes of health and during you have been destroyed. Here you came to Sinj often and you were familiar with it as a minister, you came often, mainly for the days of Alka, the Drinski prosciutto, neatly you would, it would be a feast, you'd come this year, you have friends down there, except for painting and self-reclamation, you didn't do anything. So much for your vaccination, you have vaccinated enough, so that the result of your vaccination is 90% of Croatia empty and health services are never worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86043	In the economy it's called the hoax of the public all if any doctor thinks he was a health minister, you better get... But okay, we're moving on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86044	I... Please come out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86045	We're moving forward with an individual debate, colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86046	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed attorney general with his associates and state secretary, we have a report for 2017. And I actually congratulate this report, for the simple reason, in this country sometimes should have courage. I congratulate you on your courage to show the situation in the report as it is, because it's not every time simple. Every time we don't all want to hear about what it's about, and I kind of recommend to my fellow parliamentary deputies, when they're working on one topic, about some other laws, there's a lot of data in your report, a lot of elements, and there's also a recommendation, which is convenient then used to discuss certain laws. Of course, if we Parliamentarians, no matter what the subject is, we have our own topics, so we're discussing them, but I would really like to concentrate on your report in this debate and I'd like to say the situation, you have, there's some in life... when you're on one side and on the other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the first time, when I was a minister, you made a report, I was very dissatisfied with it and with a very large like that sweet deputy, the assistant, I came to you, to convince you that we were beautiful and beautiful, you had all your associates on the other hand, and after two minutes, everything was absolutely clear to me. The citizens came to you and the citizens came to you and wrote and wrote what they saw. And your job is to write down what your citizens warn you about and the situation you see. And the role of the executive to make the next report better. No one has a magic wand and no one is going to make one now, and then the next report will be wonderful, but in that sense there should be a shift. So it wasn't by any chance my question, which I asked, and I knew that the question was very simple, but the answer is very difficult to see which ones are the resistors where we have the shift. And that's the role of the report, it's not the role of someone to like you, in the executive government, so that's the reason, that they keep putting you, even though you have an 8-year-old term, and that's very important to say. The role is to tell the situation as it is and to make recommendations on what needs to be done and to see what is done in the next report as well. We are discussing demographics here and there should be great courage in Croatia at this time and the question is who has the courage to move. All these measures in demographics that we have, and I'm going to end up with demographics, are such that actually young people stay, that we have more children, children born in 25 years will come to the labour market. What are we gonna do for 25 years? At this point we have about 40,000 foreign labour approvals, the next gentleman will be 1,000 thousand and we must give an answer at this time. When you carefully read your report, then you can, I would point to three facts that are read out of it. The first fact, the unemployment of people over 50, is what we need through legislation and the rest to deal with what we have, to increase employability, and especially women after 50 years. The second topic where you said that you think there should be a convention on the rights of the elderly, so I don't see it as a social story, but I watch, as you watch, watch the story, make it possible for people who have retired, and we know that it was common, so, at the age when I was a young engineer, there was no one around that age to work because they were all retired. So to enable people who are retired to work and a third topic, how to hire young people, how to hire young people at the time they study. Not only declareatively, make it possible, but really and really. What am I talking about? There are occasional jobs, young people who study, those who have decided to conduct their studies well, will also finish their studies. And work and finish, and work won't stop them. So, what do we have at this point? We need labour, we don't have enough labour, we have unemployed people in the market over 50 who are unemployed because we don't have a chance to do that, we have a big no. pensioners who are equally willing to work and have students, i.e. young people who are ready to work alongside the study. You have observed all of this in your report, even moreover, when it comes to young people, you have also talked about how some other studies, some other points, obviously because you have had observations in this regard. So at this point, the government in your report should read these 3 facts and by these 3 facts something can be done in a short time, because the next Mr. I'm sure, believe me, there will be 100,000 permits to work, and here people won't come to work. It won't come from two situations, one situation because we're not friends in that sense or our own population, and you have to have a country that's at one point desirable for someone to come, because we need labour, and I don't mean to insult anyone. We need cleaning girls, we need maids, we need engineers, we need physical workers, we need a sequence, we need a sequence when we're looking at the diapazone, and that's the fact we have. And on the other hand, we can hire our own people, how? That we have flexible labour legislation, that we have a flexible tax policy, and that we don't slave for some established methods, some established ways. Because what's worth today wasn't worth it 20 years ago and I'm sure in 20 years it won't be worth it absolutely because the changes are like that from day to day that it's hard to answer. I can hardly discuss any topic that there is without touching what I've been doing my whole life and I'm still doing, and that's the subject and the problem of housing. We in Croatia don't have a way of social housing at all. It's one program and it's something that's inevitable, it's something we've been pointing at all along. When you take, let's say, we have a mayor in the city who was always his model city Beč, and I don't know how many times he went to Rome so it was a little bit for us citizens of the city of Zagreb unknown why he was going to Rome, and his role model was Vienna, Beč owns you, the town of Beč owns apartments in different places at different prices and you can live your whole life in an apartment owned by the city of Vienna and you pay depending on how much you can. He's got that first category of social class. So that's something that's inevitable and what you're writing in the report. I went to look at it a few years ago and you just pointed it out the same way, so that's something we have to have. We had a recent debate in the Assembly another reading of the Law on POS, I guess tomorrow is a vote, the POS Law is not that, it's something else entirely, it's the way the state at one point regulated the price of apartments on the market, but the subject of social housing, then the question is, in my opinion, is the fundamental question, is the state getting into it? At the first moment he must enter, and then leave it to municipalities and cities because they will be much simpler to manage their housing fund and thus any municipality or city can be desirable for the life of the population. But equally, you may also be eager to have someone come to you to work at a time when he knows that under certain conditions he will have secured his living issue, not that he will live them five in an apartment with one room or I don't know what everything is. So at this point, we're really full of media, and you came at a time in the Parliament when we're full of demographics, but our mouth will be full of demographics for a long time, and the president decided on this field of exit with her own measures. So these measures we have, so you see an increase or we don't fall with a population of 25 or 30 years, but the answer should be given now. And it will be quite enough for ministers who decide or vice presidents who may be sitting in your report to read a few things and write everything in it. So what's written to take a step, we're currently hiring a part of our own people who are here. They are not the ones who went outside because they want to try it because they give them more opportunities outside than Croatia, they are the people who can work there, who want to work, we just have to let them know how, without killing them with taxes and all the rest of them. So here are the last few seconds, the report is excellently done, it will benefit all of us for all the other things, and I must really congratulate you on your constant courage to come to this House, to make it clear what it is and that you have no problem telling me your position even though I haven't heard where progress is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86047	Thank you. One replica, colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86048	Thank you. Your colleagues Mrak-Taritash said what I expected all day long, which is that in this report you find what is really in it, which is that discrimination and denial of human rights is a direct blow to the vital forces of a society and a state. Demography is the release of these vital energies, vital forces, and I am glad that in this report you found those elements when we talk about a demographic restoration that takes place through the care of the population now in some area, and the activation of these vital forces, is in our political discourse a demographic restoration and demographics we are reduced to telling stories about some future people, while at the same time closing our eyes to discrimination, forgetting and not taking advantage of the vital energies of that people who are present.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86049	Here's your answer, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86050	Thank you very much. Comrade Vučetić, I actually agree with you in response to the replica. So we're talking about some imaginary country all the time and we're talking about some imaginary people, and we're talking about some imaginary situations. People who have left this country with their families will return only if we offer them something better than where they are. But where they are when those kids go to school, when they solve their own, they're gonna have a hard time coming back. So we have to decide to be a country friend to our population of the one we have and also to enable at one point someone else to come to us to design, to live, to work, and everything else. So we have to deal with what we have, not some imaginary situation, imaginary people, or what's going to happen in 30 years. In 30 years, maybe we'll be some rarithy, I hope not, and I don't want to look at it that way. And that's why I used this discussion on purpose for that part of the report and the attorney general.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86051	Thank you. Next individual debate, counterpart Alexic Goran. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86052	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mrs. Vidovic. I'm going to show you something today that we're going to talk about. I hope in a few months. I've already told you that on the board. First of all, your report is good, so your report is good for every commendation and I think you are one of the few people around which there are no recommendations in the Croatian Parliament, everyone agrees that you do your job well, and that is rare to hear. Most of the opposition is dissatisfied with some authorities, but with you most of all, everyone is pleased. However, I will help, and I hope that you will provide the hand that I am providing you and I hope that in your next report, we have solved the systemic problem of damaged consumers who were illegally charged by Croatian banks. These interest rates have been charged illegally for the last 15 years. In short, banks agreed until 2013, until the end, until 10 January 2013, they agreed on a way to change the interest rate by decision of the bank. This was observed in the country and at the end of 2013, a law imposing on banks that these incorrectly agreed interest rates must be defined, then brought into line with the debtors and finally agreed on how to finally be correct, that they should be by law. But what did the banks do? The banks defined interest rates but did not comply and did not agree with consumers. So they haven't improved their behavior at all, they've continued to charge interest that they have voluntarily defined in such a way that they have freely defined variable parameters and have voluntarily defined a fixed part of the interest rate. This was the beginning of 2014 following the adoption of the Amendments to the Consumer Credit Act. After that, after banks voluntarily defined these margins and variable parameters, there was a powerful verdict in the collective case of francs. By a powerful verdict on 13 June 2014, 7 banks were found to have negotiated unfairly and therefore a null contractual provision on how to change the interest rate by decision of the bank. In addition to the fact that this interest rate was so agreed, it was also found that banks should not behave in such a way or in the future. However, banks continued to apply unfair interest rates. And what is left for the debtors is for the consumers to go to the courts. And they went to the courts but in a very small number. As far as I know, 4000 lawsuits have been filed since the possible 200 thousand lawsuits because at least 200 thousand people have been damaged by the illegal business of Croatian banks. Because at least so many loans were made with variable interest rates agreed before 2013. And in all these loans agreed with consumers, the bank negotiated unfair interest rates. And what was going on? First of all, the courts didn't understand what it was about, so they were wandering around a little bit. However, three, four years ago, a very envious case-law was created, and it was a forceful case-law. There are 15 court rulings that clearly indicate that banks have to repay overpaid interest to debtors and belonging to a tight interest rate. Undoubtedly established. What was questionable was the question of an outdated claim. Because according to some of the old views of the Supreme Court, the statutes of limitations appear five years after the prosecution. For example. I file a lawsuit today and I have the right to only get claims back five years. However, today, it is today, so I would say a decision of the year at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. This decision of the year reads, the collective lawsuit in the case of francs has suspended the limitation of individual claims on the basis of this action and, by a powerful verdict on 13 June 2014, the statute of limitations began to run from the beginning. In other words, this means that all debtors covered by a collective judgment in the case of francs have the right to claim overpaid interest in full amounts plus tight interest. And so far, only four thousand lawsuits have been filed. And I don't think the debtors are going to be going to court mass right now. The next verdict we await is the High Court of Commerce's ruling on the dishonesty of the CHF currency clause. Because this whole process isn't over yet. It was ruled that the interest rate was unfair and worthless but was not ruled that the unfair currency clause CHF. However, because of the EU court's rulings in France, Germany, Slovenia, Romania, Greece, and also in BiH, which is not part of the EU, I expect the High Commercial Court to rule this time that the CHF currency clause has been negotiated in an unfair manner and that therefore it is zero in all loans with the CHF currency clause. This creates a new 120 thousand possible lawsuits for the unfair and worthless currency clause CHF. Is it our goal now that all these debtors go to court and seek their rights in court? Is it our goal to enable banks to simply avoid major damages under allegations of damage, because it is not a pity they must pay back the money in the expectation that not all debtors will go to courts as has been the practice so far. Because the truth is that debtors, let's say little people under quotes, consumers, ordinary people who aren't ordinary to neither money nor right often shake hands and tell me no matter how much I don't get used to courts, I don't trust courts, I don't trust lawyers, it costs, like, a hundred excuses. And in vain, I keep saying from here on out that it's a sure thing, that I'm sure they'll get a verdict in their favor. I'm saying it in vain. Last year I proposed a law that would solve the problem of illegal margins. And that law was rejected here in the Parliament. First, he was rejected by the government and rejected by the Parliament. And that's only because the government rejected him. And I had 78 signatures of support from my colleagues and fellow MPs, 78, so I had a majority but the government said no, and then the majority said no. Not all of them, some of them were abstentions. In the 7th month of last year, HDZ pledged publicly, officially with the signing of HZD Secretary General Gordan Jandrokovic, my fellow Parliament president, to address the problem of fixed interest margins. They promised, they signed, and then they refused the law that I proposed, which solves it. And until today, I have not been accepted for a new conversation, a new round of talks on solving this problem. In the meantime, I sent them three variants of the solution to that problem. Three variants of the solution to this problem are found in the Ministry of Finance. The last one is very simple. In fact, it would be required for banks to implement reprogrammes of all loans with unlawfully defined margins, in order to establish that the interest rate from the date of entry into force of such a law is an average interest rate in the type of loans for 2018 and thereafter would be variable in accordance with the current market conditions. It is one hand given to the Croatian bank association because it is market elements. Now we're no longer going in any way to do it over our knees than it's proposed to go according to the market principle. Here, this is everything I've exposed to you, and I'm going to show it to you again in more detail, when I come to you for an interview, I expect you to support me in this initiative, and then we'll try to lobby publicly together, so, publicly lobby rather than under the table, to solve this problem systematically. That 120 thousand debtors with the CHF currency clause should the ruling be positive for the currency clause, any compensation and as regards the currency clause and the interest rate. And that the euro and kuna debtors receive all compensation, concerning the illegal application of the interest rate. A total package of that solution would cost banks somewhere around 15 billion kuna, if we were to understand each other, but banks have 30 billion kuna liquidity, and they've earned the last 10 years 50 billion kuna net profits. So that's not a problem for them, it'll just cut their profits in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86053	Thank you. That's why we're interrupting the debate. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 with our colleague, Maria Alfirev. Thank you very much and goodbye. Session adjourned at 17.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86054	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue to discuss the same point where we left off yesterday, so as the first one, we will have an individual discussion of the respected representative Maria Alfirev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86055	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed attorney with his associates, the government's representatives. So, after yesterday's debate mentioning a number of different forms of human rights violations, I will today and in this debate talk about 3 significant, 3 topics that are also highlighted in the report, and in the beginning I will talk about one subject, which is not so touched by the report itself, but I think it is very worth mentioning because it really concerns human rights, human rights and persons with disabilities. And the next three topics, are actually what I'm going to talk about is freedom of movement, civil education and education and finally, the role of civil society in protecting human rights. Why would people with disabilities, well, as long as, say our society and the whole system are facing, that people with disabilities actually fall down and are in charge of issues, or would say the problems of people with disabilities, that the ministries are the ones or the resolution ministries that relate to health and social policy. Also in our assembly, the main or parent committee is this health care and social policy, and until then, in fact, the whole resolution of the meaning of all issues concerning persons with disabilities, focused precisely, is turned towards it. What we should be more concerned about, actually, is human rights, because all of that, the problems that arise for people with disabilities, actually stem from disrespecting human rights. And that's why I really think that we should take care of it, and even, here we go from this home, and as a parent body, you might choose exactly that of the Human Rights Committee, and in that sense it might be a little bit more, no matter what it says about what the Ombudsman says about people with disabilities, because we have accepted a series of conventions, we have also brought our strategies that relate to equating the opportunities of people with disabilities. But everything that's about, when we talk about strategies, it's actually about respect for the fundamental rights of persons with disabilities, fundamental human rights. And that's why I think it should be kept up to date and accounted for. What is said in the report itself, and I will mention these 3 topics, these are freedom of movement, civil education and education and finally, civil society, also mentioned in this debate. Why freedom of movement? When we just had this report in front of us yesterday and we were saying, we actually heard and we know that freedom of movement is fundamentally human rights, and freedom of movement of workers is actually a fundamental principle of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Unfortunately, yesterday we were from a person who should represent and be the pride of our country, heard that, therefore, he heard a statement about the harmfulness of freedom of movement, and that is why these statements are really hard to understand, especially when we know that it is indeed a fundamental human right. Well, I think that you, too, Attorney General, will certainly have something to say on that subject, because if we start making statements like this, then I don't know where we're going to go, but it's no wonder, when we know where it comes from, however, we really should be worried. The freedom of movement you're talking about in the report is actually the one that refers to the control of the restriction of freedom of movement, because we know, and you mentioned it, for example. persons, especially those with greater mental difficulties, are actually exposed to one situation, that they are indeed denied, for example, because of the closure of the department and the locking of the department, they are deprived of their will and cannot go outside, and it happens, that indeed for several years and a few years they cannot actually leave their own space. Also restricting freedom of movement, speaking by the Advocate General, you also speak when you are reporting about the accommodation of the transit reception centre and the problematic interpretation of the extension of the powers of police stations, when adopting a solution to restrict freedom of movement. Those are the questions you're talking about the most. Another topic, which we should mention, which you have highlighted, is civic education and education. You have in many places in your recommendations, in fact, stated that education and information is extremely important and that both should work to remove all forms of impatience and develop a culture of dialogue, I hope it will lead to this, because it implies that there is, or is not enough at the moment, to declare this society truly anti-discrimination. So you have stated that it is also necessary to educate civil servants and employees of units of local area, i.e. regional self-government, police officers, employers, civil service officers, judges, lawyers, employees of welfare centres, labour market stakeholders, union commissioners, workers, students, judicial officials, health workers. They were alive and seen. You also point out that the lack of this lack is possible to correct targeted education and public information. What you also pointed out is that it is crucial and that I really fully agree with it, which is that the construction of a society, that it is necessary to build a society in which diversity will not lead to discriminatory treatment and that there is civil education and education that can be achieved best by civic education and education. So here I can ask the question of the Minister Divjak, which is with the intention of introducing a provision in the Law on Education that can enable parents to decide how and what their child will receive at school, listen, and when we know how much education they need, you yourself have made it clear who they need to educate and what our society is. And finally, the role of civil society in the protection of human rights, unfortunately, I would say that this mechanism, and that is what you have mentioned, has been significantly suppressed by this government. So I'm going to say that since the beginning of the year I've asked two questions to the prime minister of the government, one question was precisely on the basis of your recommendations, and there should have been no recommendation there because we know that two significant national strategies have not been adopted for two years, and this is one national issue regarding the development of a positive development of the environment of civil society. And secondly, the Strategy to create a stimulating environment for the development of civil society and secondly for the adoption of a programme for the protection and promotion of human rights. Since no other document has been adopted by this government for two years then we wonder what the government is doing, what it intends to do about protecting human rights, what it intends to do about all those associations, all those civil society organisations that stand in the defense of human rights and which, because in the previous period, we have reached that civilizational one standard in which the state has also significantly supported civil society organisations that have stood in the protection of the rights of all minorities, so from some significant amount of 700 thousand kuna, we have reached barely 100 thousand kunas that stand out in this direction. So we're really wondering what this government is doing about it, and we haven't got any of these documents in sight yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86056	Thank you very much. We have several replicas on your exhibit, first being the respected representative of Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Alfirev, you pointed out four very important facts regarding the right to health, the right to work, the right to freedom of movement, and specifically referred to civic education. In your debate, you showed to what extent this report comes at the right time because the Council of Europe has shown us that there is a lack of confidence in the institutions and bodies of public authorities in Croatia, and the European Commission's report tells us that human rights are at stake in Croatia. Yesterday we saw and witnessed a sort of march of democracy, a march against the democracy of the backdrop associations that want to limit minority rights. And the civic education held in Rijeka after just one school year showed that all children attending civic education respect and respect others and different opinions. Therefore, it is the way and democracy must be practiced, and civic education is the way to practice it.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86058	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86059	Yes, you're really right for your colleague Jovanovic. So yesterday we witnessed something that can really be very dangerous because all of it's acquired rights, the rights of all national minorities, but the rights of other people, the people we can put into minorities can be all these rights violated. And we've had and at this point we have one civilizational one reach that we can boast of. Sadly, if something is different or changes in the direction in which it is intended or wanted by some, then that system can be deeply, deeply damaged. Yes, you have also cited this example of the River, and this is a good example because we have other examples of when in schools negative attitudes are expressed toward anyone who is not, therefore, not taking care of it then we have negative...
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86060	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86061	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Alfirev. In your debate you touched one topic, of course after yesterday it was difficult to expect that it would not be mentioned, and that is the subject of freedom of movement. In relation to what we had the opportunity to hear, I am absolutely sure that the time has come for us to change some of the legislation so that the democracies we are developing, perhaps the president of the state or the president of the state, we choose in the Croatian Parliament, it is shown that all those who think about it are indeed right. I have to admit that one of the topics we're thinking about is. But the subject of freedom of movement is extremely important, it is extremely important to highlight, it is extremely important that what the Ombudsman was saying in her report. She spoke when you restrict the freedom of movement of people you actually limited yourself to your own backyard. It's just that we're missing a wall and we're making sure that everything is ideal here and that everyone who's outside that wall thinks wrong and especially if they think otherwise, then I'm sure they think wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86062	Thank you. Dear Representative Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86063	Yeah, this is what you said, so you really said these statements not that they were just gonna say easy-minded but they're really dangerous when they come from a person who's authority. And they can be very potentially dangerous because especially young people can follow them. So to say that freedom of movement of workers or freedom of movement within the EU, or freedom of movement is generally harmful, is a really dangerous statement and cannot lead to something good. So I agree that I don't know, we'll see if any changes in the electoral system are going to do something about it, but I think it's a lot, a lot more about the person himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86064	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86065	Dear colleagues, two short questions, one question I came up with in advance is to tell me what you think about what changed compared to the report two years ago when the report wasn't adopted. However, I must comment here on your response to my colleague Jovanovic where you said it was very dangerous when the people, the Croatian people in the Croatian state, used the Institute of Referendum. Why don't you explain to me what's dangerous here when the Croatian people, in accordance with Croatian laws, two weeks on the streets, collects signatures on a legitimate issue, where you see danger to the Croatian state, where you see danger to the Croatian people, and what's wrong with that? Is it bad to do the obstruction of the referendum as your colleague Obersnel does or is it legitimate to behave in accordance with the laws of how people acted yesterday who had just brought the Parliament signatures.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86066	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Zekanovic was rightly demeaning the mayor of the city of Rijeka, Mr. Obersnel, when he said he was doing an obstruction because, as we had had the opportunity to see from yesterday's decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia there was no obstruction in the territory of the city of Rijeka, there were no restrictions in the area of the city of Rijeka and there were no violations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86068	Thank you. I estimate there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If we consider this a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I fear that almost every MP would have to be warned because many times many, many more difficult claims are made, but no breach of the Rules of Procedure has been made. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86069	So, colleague Zekanovic, you said these two things, so what changed over the years, so here I was not there in the Parliament when it was voted on, although given this report and how much I see and how much I read the reports previously I think that both two years ago and last year, and this year and this year, she actually submitted a comprehensive, big report that really speaks of all those major problems and is actually our authority attorney and is actually working on protecting human rights. And as for the referendum, therefore, no, nor is it a dangerous referendum, I am talking about the consequences that can arise when the referendum seeks to violate so all acquired minority rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86070	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86071	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Alfirev, I can agree with most of the things you said at the beginning, but one thing is stuck to my ear and I don't understand in what context you mentioned it to the attorney and it's about the right of parents to choose you said, election cases. The right of parents to choose, you mentioned the Law on Education and Education I suppose, so the basis of liberalism is freedom. Freedom means the right to choose. Are we going to impose on someone or are we going to allow electoral items to be elective and that parents decide what their children who are not of age are going to choose? I think it's perfectly fine and it's normal, there's no violation of anyone's rights and there's nothing else. If the net doesn't want to listen to things that aren't mandatory, it doesn't have to. I don't want to think that it's prescribed here that everyone has to be one-minded or I don't know what, I think we're out of that system a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86072	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86073	We had a really wide discussion when there was, when there was a debate here on law and education, amendments to the laws on education and education in primary and secondary schools. And a lot of that was said and then we said and I was talking about how dangerous it could really be. And that's when I set a single example when we were saying, when I said here, let's say parents can decide whether they want to or their views and beliefs are the ones that say or disagree with that we have an inclusive school. And is that an inclusive school, for example? Or the parent doesn't want their child to sit in class with Roma children, for example. Is it really the right of parents to raise a child in a certain way to command this other one?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86074	Thank you. The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86075	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alfirev, you mentioned new amendments and additions to the Law on Education and Education. The fact is that today is contrary to what the HNS gentleman said, children choose electoral items with the consent of their parents. The children choose them. However, the new law is not about electoral matters, the new bill is about opening up space for parents to influence whether their children will listen to parts of certain content or cross-cutting topics, which could mean it could mean reality. Today we have children in the halls of religious science and directors are unable to provide instruction. This could mean in the future that the halls have children whose parents are against vaccinations, whose parents think life begins with conception, not birth, etc. Yeah, that's exactly what the law says. And not being careful about what the law says or trying to cover up what it says in the law is not your problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86076	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86077	Thank you, fellow Glasovac, here you have just made a fine addition to the previous replica of your colleague and that is exactly the point. So, it's really not about election cases, it's about what you're talking about right now, it's about whether or not this is about opening up a really different space of interpretations and different possible situations that won't be able to respond well to either the educational institution itself, the primary school or the secondary school itself, and it can really cause our new division into society and open up the possibility of discrimination and persons but also the very fundamental right to quality education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86078	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86079	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are today discussing a report by the occupier for 2017, a report that we began to discuss yesterday, but we must no longer be mistaken that discrimination is something that has happened and not something that is happening. Discrimination is not a historical or historical givenness, but unfortunately, it is the subject of the processivity of our human seriousness that belongs and has even its own geography. We can speak and we can determine exactly the spatial coordinates in which discrimination is conducted in a specific Croatian way and lead to the denial of human rights. And these geographical, spatial coordinates are just bordering the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Today we are discussing a report that discusses how discrimination is being committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and how human rights are denied. If these reports are repeated within this range and on this scale, this report is no longer a report on human rights violations but becomes a report from a future epitaph of Croatian society. Since we have a spatial and geographical determination, it is important to place those who live there in that space and geography. So people who live in this space, people who move and people who act, among our fellow citizens, we have those who are holders of discriminatory policies and we have victims who suffer and who are victims of just such actions and such policies. For this reason, we are all invited to reflect on the eternal now in which we are acting and now to be our eternally now, in which we will resist all discrimination and all denials and denials of human rights, that we will not bring it down even to political giving, but also to our human imperative. As people in our eternity, we must now recognize all these discriminatory codes that are embedded in our society, our consciousness, fight against such discriminatory codes and learn to live in a tolerated society, in a society in which there will be no discrimination and in a society that will be co-existence and that will encourage this growing humanity and that will lead to an ever-increasing, stronger and stronger society. Only then will we show our maturity. For this reason, because of these discriminatory codes and because we are adequately responding to discrimination, I have, for example, allowed the integral part of my learning apparatus and the world view to become the Istanbul Convention when it comes to fighting violence against women and children because it is now an integral part of my view of the world and of the traditional definition, understanding and understanding of what violence is against women and children and how we can adequately agree on this violence. That is why, forever now and because of the need for me to act in this eternal state, I am also getting up against these current initiatives that my colleagues are trying to do, the current representatives of the national minority consciousness to colleagues who are incomplete, who are unworthy of representation positions, to colleagues who do not belong to this House fully and who do not fully belong to this society since they are elected by members of this society and citizens who are supposed to be our fellow citizens. By denying the rights of representatives of national minorities, we denied and reduced the rights of our fellow citizens, we struck civil society, we struck civil consciousness, and we sowed new dangerous discriminatory codes into our civil society. The human being is a word, the word is the dimension that brings man to the consciousness that he is a being of the community because the word serves us to say ourselves and to accept another and to allow others to express themselves. The word serves exclusively in the function of common life, the community, there is no common life without equality and equality. I would expect this people, from this society that I can borrow from a syntagma, which is almost at the level of the crucified society and the crucified people, because because of many public policies and many non-political practices, has moved out, moved out and belongs to the whole world in a way that has not been able to manage, has not been able to find and achieve the quality of his life and his existential calm within the borders of this Republic and this society that we need to build to be tolerated. Let us only remember the data found in this report that almost a fifth of the population is at risk of poverty, and let us also remember that your recommendations and measures have not been adopted. To implement all the recommendations and measures that you propose in your reports, we would become a tolerance society, a society in which there is no discrimination, a society in which no one I call the evil twin of Croatian society will act. Because this report of yours, I am merely reading as a daily record of the action of this evil twin who destroys the future of our society, which does not allow us to live in tolerance, which does not allow us to live in social support, that we live in a society in which Roma will not be discriminated over because of the romance, a Serb for the sake of Serbia, in which they will not defend themselves, in which women will not be discriminated because of womanhood, but that we will allow man and that every human activity we observe from the level of humanity and the level of humanity that needs to be serious and which should be led precisely to this tolerance and desirable society. We are at a turning point and our turning point is whether we are going to develop policies, political and non-political practices that will only enrich the number of this crucified society, the crucified citizens and the crucified people, or we will learn to develop those policies that will be inclusive in those practices that will lead to this, to desirable and growing humanity, or we will completely disappear as a society. If we choose this disappearance as a society, then we will no longer be bound by the catalog of human rights or by what kind of humanity should be and how humanity is protected, but then we will approach others in some way that we will find in the Hunting Law, for we will view other people as hunters, and we will see ourselves as hunters and some deprived rights that we will give to someone at the level of social virtue. Social virtue isn't when you take away someone's rights. Social virtue is not when you organize people to rebel and animated, to mobilize against someone's rights. It's not social virtue, it's the absence of humanity, and it's policies that discriminate. And I expect and hope that we will realize that as citizens we have a commitment to this geography, according to the borders of the Republic of Croatia that we have a commitment to humanity that is developing in Croatia and that we have an obligation to stop the action of this evil twin who is destroying Croatian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86080	Thank you. Your exposure has caused more replication. He is the first respected representative of Glasnovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86081	Dear colleague, there are five members of the animal rights party in the Dutch Parliament. In the Croatian Parliament we have 3 representatives for 800,000 Croats out there, has double citizenship, and we have 3 here. Is this discrimination against Croatia, Croatia's largest. This is the Croatian state. Is that discrimination? First question. Second question, lustration. Why do we avoid that word of lustration? Is it a fundamental human right to the truth and why we deal with the consequences here all the time, not the causes? There sits the party on the right that has committed, the heirs of the party, the greatest crimes in the history of Southeast Europe, west to Ural. No one's named for it. There's a high member here recently talking about unfinished business. Is that hate speech, what is it? You have six Croats now in Austria. ... They've been there for over a month, no one to speak a word from the Foreign Ministry. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is that discrimination?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86082	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86083	Discrimination is all that and every action in which we try to take certain rights from a specific person and a particular population. Discrimination can also be done in the field of health, in the field of politics. Discrimination, speaking of the field of lustration can also be done on the territory of truth, but we have several types of violence. We have violence against the truth, but we also have violence designed to be true. This form, when we observe and talk about lustration, I'll ask you a question. And that's the question of who would and how and when should you carry out the lustration? What kind of lustration should be carried out, and what would this lustration mean to the present Croatian society? Would Croatian society choose lustration if it had chosen for example the government of Gotovina? Did we choose lustration when we chose Franjo Tudjman?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86084	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Culei.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86085	Your Honor, Vice President. I barely got up to answer you. The river, your beautiful speech deeply touched me, especially when you mentioned the maturity of society about accepting all minorities and endangering them, so as a member of the majority people, I say, better a gay picture book than a Ustasha chess shop, let the asshole Culej disappear and his whole nakot, Tito, come back, finish slaughtering the Ustasha and their children to kill this freak forever, death of fascism and all those who sympathise him. All of this is what every day the Croatian man, the subject we are facing in this is called tolerance, and according to the report of an intolerant society. What we're talking about in the Croatian state where the murderer of 12 directors in this country is his monument as a hero. What do we have more to talk about? You talk about tolerance, you talk about co-existence, you talk about health care in society, what more would you talk about? I'll never accept a report like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86086	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86087	So tolerance is not a war call against someone, tolerance is to build society and tolerance and a call for tolerance we find in this report. We won't have a tolerated society, as long as, for example, the defenders don't resolve their defensive status. The report says that many defenders have not resolved at all, or most defenders have not dealt with them adequately. It's a society that discriminates against defenders. You need to talk about discrimination against the defense attorney. A society that discriminates doesn't discriminate against just one population. A society that discriminates against national minorities will also discriminate against defenders. A society that discriminates against defenders will also discriminate against national minorities. We finally need to understand that we have human and anti-human activity. Human activity is the action of co-existence, anti-human action is an action that discriminates. And the society that discriminates doesn't choose who they discriminate against, but needs to discriminate.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86088	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86089	Thank you. Dear colleague Vučetic, you've noticed two things here. When we talk about discrimination against national minority representatives, through this initiative that is now being implemented, it is actually about discrimination against voters, which these MPs will choose in the Croatian Parliament. The D.A. went one step further, so it's in Recommendation No. 40 wrote on the ballot, which would include a general list of electoral units and minority lists, instead of narrowing the rights, it strengthens them. As for the geographical coordinates of discrimination on the Republic of Croatia, you later noticed, in your speech you said that many have left this country. So discrimination has spread beyond the border of the Republic of Croatia. Everyone who has left this country has been discriminated against here. They didn't leave this country just for existential reasons, they left because they didn't see any more perspective in this society. And that's the worst degree of discrimination. You say well, a large number of defenders in the Republic of Croatia, lives today on the border or below the poverty line.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86090	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86091	I would say that what you said is true is the initial truth, which is that the citizens who left the Republic of Croatia left it not because of what they wanted, but because they had to, what they wanted to live in an orderly society, that it was their initial state, a state that was basically driven by discrimination. But these same fellow citizens, when they found themselves in societies that don't discriminate, in societies where they can develop their existential potentials, they're no longer in a state of discrimination. They have a history of discrimination. They can make an existential distance both to their own history and to the society they were in. And we should step up and fight discrimination, to truly understand that discrimination is something that affects complete society and all citizens and that is how it returns.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86092	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86093	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You say discrimination isn't historic,... It can be talked through spatial coordinates, about spatial coordinates in these areas, where we live, you're saying that north of Croatia, south of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No discrimination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're talking about discrimination as a general phenomenon, and the attorney general gave you a report on benches, on all of us, and writes you here fine 277 complaints on discrimination, 47 of which based on discrimination for racial ethicality or skin color, i.e., national discrepancies. So you're talking about a general phenomenon of discrimination in Croatian society, which is not good, because there is no discrimination, is not a general phenomenon in Croatian society. Moreover, as regards national minorities, I would recommend that you read the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, which states that national minorities have the right to 5-8 MPs in the Croatian Parliament, 5-8 and they enjoy this right every time, in every election of 8 seats, so there is no reduction of rights, this is an example of how they treat the target minorities in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86094	Thank you. Dear Representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86095	Thank you, I'll only read it for you, once again, the Constitution and constitutional law, but I don't think I'm gonna knowingly enrich what you already know. I'll tell you when I talk about geographical coordinates and geography, I said that discrimination, which happens in Croatia, is happening in a specific Croatian way. That it is not only a nickel Croatian phenomenon, but that we should not cultivate it even with our myths, and one of these myths is that by reducing the rights of national minorities, we are taking care of national minorities. It's your myth, it's your antinomy, it's your inconsistency. You can't hold national minorities in math categories, we counted, they're here, and that's why we gave them the right. We do someone else's work or take away the right if in his uniqueness, in his... We don't allow anything else and we're at that door. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86096	The next replica is the respected MPs Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've been listening very closely to you, and I agree with a lot of what you've said, a society of tolerance has no alternative, long-term, no alternative, maybe some think that some of the campaigns on a tolerance society and certain social groups will profit, no. In the long run, it leads to self-destruction. The greatest democracy in fact of society is manifested in relation to the weaker, vulnerable groups, so if you want to see minorities in society. And when we're in the majority, or when we're in the minority, then it's very often on the test our courage, but let's not forget, that when we're in the majority, it's on our tolerance test. And I really want to fight in this House for Croatia as a highly tolerated society with the most developed norms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86098	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic. I'm sorry, I skipped again, the answer of the respected representative Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86099	Thank you. Tolerant society is a society that recognises the rights of vulnerable groups, not prescribed by them. When we prescribe rights, we are necessarily in the field of neither social justice nor a tolerance society nor a desirable society. So our society should be a society that recognises every right and those rights comes from a level of social and legal support, not that prescribes someone what it should be. The truth is, what you said about society progressing and not a single move on society will stop social progress. It won't stop for the simple reason that alternative society is developing then. For example, during communism, the alternative state was in church, and now it is an alternative society in civil life associations.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86100	The next individual debate now finally, the respected representative of Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86101	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues, attorneys with associates. So there's an important fact here that I've already pointed out earlier through replicas, and none of my colleagues have mentioned, which is that the almost identical report we received and last year's clan was rejected from this House. We have three reports that are identical in numbers in absolutely everything, and the report was rejected. And now I'm curious what's changed is there really something in that report that's fundamentally different, or maybe some parties' and some individuals' policies have changed? It was pragmatic two years ago to tear down the report, not because of the report, but because of what the D.A. was doing, and she didn't put it in the report, and that's exactly what everyone here is talking about discrimination about, is she not treating all individuals and communities in our country in the same way. So here's the question to my colleagues who were at the Parliament at the time, I wasn't, who were tearing down the report, did one catharsis happen in the character and the work of Advocate Laura Vidovic or something else? Or might Prime Minister Plenkovic have ordered this time that it is pragmatic because of colleagues from the SDSS who are in the coalition or some of the others from the HNS that the report must be accepted? And let's not forget what our attorney general has been saying and doing for the past few years. You mentioned referendums that are not the subject of this debate, but a legitimate way of expressing the will of citizens, legitimate, legal and people will not be wrong, the people will make the right decision. And it was just the female lawyer sitting here that she was talking about about about five years ago when she was a referendum on marriage as a very dangerous phenomenon where the basic values of the Republic of Croatia would be violated, based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. She doubted it, not only did she suspect that the marriage of the community was a woman and a man, it may not be that, perhaps there is something else but she had doubts about the will of the citizens, expressed through the collection of 750 thousand signatures and shown through 64% of the people who said in the referendum that marriage would be a community of women and men. Furthermore, yesterday in the Assembly, we could listen to our lawyer look back at the controversial greeting "For Home Ready", always having to mention it, it bothers her very much. However, she said only to my question and condemned the hate speech of counterpart Stazic, who is a parliamentary representative, who is extremely important in the political life of the Republic of Croatia, who, in a disgusting way, called and regretted why many more people in the Blejbur field were not liquidated on the crossroad of '45. A year. And I'm going to ask everyone here, you're primarily an attorney general what you would do if one of my colleagues were here, for example. which would be inadmissible, incomprehensible and sick, he said the same thing for example. the same for Jasenovac or any other site where opposers suffered. I'm sure you would rightly jump and say it's not allowed. You are also not and I am not interested in whether you will, and you probably won't, because you don't have to make fun of this power with HDZ who changed its policy, you don't have to, and don't do it, just as HNS can do every decision, and you're actually making fun of all of this, so don't react to the fact that the forum of young SDP has come out with a transparency where our Croatian coat of arms is called Ustasha chess. So you go out to St. John's Square. Mark here look upon the roof of the Church of St. Mark where for centuries there has been a coat of arms that has the first white field, whose right is wrong and its historical Croatian coat of arms, is not a symbol of any Nazism and fascism. And will you react to the fact that there's an explicit hate speech on that side? counterpart Culej said nicely and cited more examples that you did not respond to, but I am sure that in the next report we will hear about the controversial greeting "For Home Ready", and about hatred on this side we will not. And that's why your report was torn down because you're extremely, extremely impartial, sorry biased, extremely biased, extremely biased. And Mrs. Vidovic, here you are laughing a little, lapus once, I made a lapus and you consciously do discrimination, consciously and it's a very big problem. You didn't make a mistake when you were all Croatian defenders who stood up against the Cyrillic in Vukovar because it hurt them, not because they are against the Serbs, but because it bothers them because it is a special place and you didn't side with them. And here we are talking about a referendum that will reduce the right of national minorities. So don't be demagogues to my people. Well, in the SDP in your party when you were in power, there were half of the Serbian ministers. So every Serb, Hungarian, Romanian has the right to be elected in any party and no one is defending it. It's about special rights, it's about someone and in this case national minorities have more rights than the majority people. So you yourself know that in your party, thank God I will say there are still many people today who do not declare themselves Croats but still declare themselves Yugoslavs which is their right and it is not disputed. But it is disputed if someone under special law comes to the Parliament not under the same conditions as we all did, most of the others, and then that they use their special right in the way they use it. Use it commercially, use it through sinicures but eventually there are exactly the minorities that our valuables I'll say in society, so they're always this scale between the government and the opposition. Here I must also look back at the presentations of my predecessors to their replicas, so her colleague Glasovac mentioned, she gave one fact that is not a fact of conception, starting not with life but by birth. I don't think so. I don't think science would agree. But here I'm going to ask another question to the esteemed attorney and it's a few Croatian citizens, our fellow citizens who have been in prison for a month in Klagenfurt. Some of them just do shirts, some of them because they've been singing some songs for, like, a month. He threatens them for up to 10 years in prison, tried for terrorism. Nor do you who defend the regiment, for you are the attorney general, nor does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor does anyone in this House speak of a political trial, of a political trial, of a people. It's about a man who's 80 years old, 80 years old. And shut up. So here's when you have the final word you'll have a chance to say something about it. What did you do? I know the answer, nothing. What are you gonna do? Nothing because you don't care. And he doesn't care about any of his other colleagues. That if I'm not mistaken for six of our fellow citizens for a month, they'll be waiting for another month and 10 years in prison. 10 years in prison for a song, due to songs that are sung in the finals and on Croatian streets. This one was arrested because he had a black shirt and he sang in battle. He sang in battle, in battle. And that leads, you know what that leads to? This leads to what my colleague Stazic will welcome with great joy, the ban on memorials in the Bliss field. And that's what's gonna happen, you're gonna be glad. Well, of course you'll be glad when you're elected by the SDP. Milanovic just put you in this place. And of course you were applauded by colleague Pusic and Voter when you had the report. And of course HDZ is not in the assembly because now Prime Minister Plenkovic has ordered that they must vote for your report which is as bad as it was two years ago. And you still do your job as you did because you can because Prime Minister Plenkovic allows you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86102	Thank you. We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86103	Your Honor, Vice President. You've well established your colleague Zekanovic's facts. One prime minister is a long time ago, not long ago I can tell you or they and they do very well what they intend to do with the same staff that they set up themselves and we haven't removed them as they have removed everything that bothered them. And I'll say it like this, the Stazic is more minor, he's not even needed to mention it. A fellow Pupovac, a representative of the national Serb minority for whom many Serbs did not vote, and possibly voted for me because I also received their votes, he told me that I am thinking and speaking as the one who was killed in Butca near Pacrac. Schreter. Is there still no need for me to be removed so that I can be completely similar to dr. Schretcher? Is he the one who is threatened in this land, or are we members of a majority nation of such minorities threatened? That's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86104	The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86105	Dear colleague Culey, I know that you here will be credible in this law and that you will vote as you should, pardon the report, I'm sure, because nothing has changed, absolutely nothing has changed. And what you're saying, you're saying well, and I agree fully with you, so today we have a colleague of the Pupovec who uses that possibility, so regardless of his popularity, and no matter what, he will always sit in the Parliament because this is what the Electoral Law has given him. So his election law allowed him to sit while he was alive and sit in Parliament. Not because of his popularity, not because, within the Serbian people, but because of other things, because of the electoral law.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86106	The next replica of the respected representative Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coli Zekanovic, I was also surprised and asked the question when you said this was the same or similar report 2 years ago, so once it was accepted, once not, I will remind you that in this House we discussed a report on the rights of Croatian defenders from 2015 which was considered by mistake twice by the same Committee on War Veterans and then by that so-called. Karamark's government, the same report did not accept, and then for the same team in Plenkovic's government, she accepted the same. Maybe there's an answer to your question about how it's possible, and otherwise I'd like to answer this question of yours that shows what your problem is. So you point out that there were half of the Serbian ministers in the past, which is not true, but you did not take the opportunity to say that half of the Croatian defenders were sitting in the last government, which is true. Whoever understands will understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86108	The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86109	I even wanted to go with you in this first part and agree because you said rightly, it's illogical, fellow. I didn't enter the nursery, the birth certificate, the birth certificate of certain people, nor will I enter. But you know best what nationality you were, and it's not even controversial, it's legitimate, it's legitimate that tomorrow in the SDP it's 80% of the Hungarians, Serbs, 90%, it's your right, as well as in any other party, but I wanted to point out one other thing with it, that every member of any people living in the Republic of Croatia has the possibility of being elected to the Croatian Parliament on the list of any party. And that's not controversial. And that is why this law regarding this part, a particular part of the minority, is not necessary because everyone has the opportunity to get on the list of any party, the same as the majority people and be elected and it is not disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86110	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Glasnovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86111	Dear colleague, Bavaria has now ordered to put crosses in all public institutions, schools, etc., while we are here where we are the Catholic majority people, recently there was a meeting for the Committee on Gender Equality where one young or 26 years old is missing, she said that some people have a problem with the cross in classrooms. Again we have that scenario by the 1990s, there are some hidden Yugoslavs, mental Yugoslavs, hiding themselves well, some at least formally gave up that legacy, you're not and you're not telling us again, again it seems that terror minority leads over most of these mental Yugoslavs. The second question is, is it possible when we talk about lustration, if someone is in public service, about politics, in education, etc., in NGOs, if his files are in the SUP in Belgrade where he ratted out other people, is it a moral right to have him in public life? That's part of the lustration, that's where people like that sit, and here they have code names like... , Tree, etc., there are these people sitting and you are opposed to truth, lustration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86112	Comrade Glasnović, thank you. The answer of the respected representative Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86113	Comrade Glasnović, you've made a very nice point of a problem. The fact that Germany has received several million migrants who are not Christians as a labor force, she saw that it is changing culturally. At first, she saw that this workforce did not actually help her, or it is not possible to use where they thought it was, and then now they seek labour from Eastern Europe, from Ukraine to Croatia, I will say. And then they tried to come back to those roots of theirs, and they really did, and through the laws and legal provisions, they went back to what they used to be. It's a nice example of me where they saw a mistake, I hope that's how it's going to continue in that direction. Unfortunately, we have examples of others, we have a situation in Spain where a leftist, liberal prime minister, who has not, which is the custom of the Spanish centuries, refused to swear on the Bible, so that we have various examples, unfortunately I will say.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86114	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected lawyers with co-workers, respected ministry representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues. Again today, as every year in the last 2 years, we can hear in some debates that some MPs who were members of the ruling majority yesterday cannot regret the fact that they failed to replace the attorney general. And they couldn't change her because she was protected by the law. A law which, unlike the other attorneys, guarantees the independence of the institution in the sense that by not voting the report or by giving a negative opinion on the Ombudsman's report, the Croatian Parliament cannot change the same. So now some of the debates in the debate about any report by any lawyer, are calling again to why, how, yesterday, there was a colleague Zekanovic asking the question that what even the lawyer here is doing because her report in 2015 was rejected here and why she did not actually resign after that, when she failed to change it, why she failed to resign. And this can seem to be a harmless game within the permitted business mechanisms, very often in the Croatian Parliament, a debate on the vote of trust or mistrust of certain ministers is also being held on other leaders of some state institutions, but the defenders are actually a special category. However, we can see that in the last 2 years, independent defence institutions in the Republic of Croatia have not been deprived of the attack on the same independence. And that's something we need to worry about, but that's something we shouldn't be surprised about because out there on the street, out there, even in front of the Croatian Parliament yesterday, we see that they're not the only ones who are hit. There are also some much more vulnerable social groups that do not protect the Constitution, which do not protect the law, but on impact are very aggressive. And why is it that some people don't mind me not telling the report, but basically, a report by the attorney general, and then the attorney general? Because she is telling the truth because she writes the truth, because she is doing her job, and while some people who respect her for doing her job forget that she is the authority of the Croatian Parliament, legitimately elected and legitimately spokeswoman of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and freedom of citizens, the problem is that she is not only a spokeswoman, she is also a possible driver of change. Not Mrs. Lora Vidovic, but an institution of attorneys and attorneys. Because if we want to solve the problem, we have to face it first and look the truth into our eyes. And to be able to do that, we must objectively look at things in our beautiful country. And seeing the negative sides of our society and seeing the deviations in our society, and reading about how something is happening that is not to us, but to shame, does not mean that we love our country less, that we want her evil. On the contrary, this means that we want our country better. That for generations to come we want to leave a better country. From year to year, the picture of Croatia does not change in some parts. Okay. In this report, we have a chance to see that some new moments appear, such as that the particularly high number of objections received in breach of labour rights is in service relations. I would also like to hear, perhaps in the final word of the Ombudsman herself or in her address during this debate before the final word which actually led to whether there was any objective explanation. The fact is, for the first time in my life, I don't know how many years or even a new moment in this report. The same thing that concerns is the fact that the number of applications received is 78% higher than in 2012. Now, we can consider that a double. Either the level of protection of human rights or the endangerment of the same decreases or citizens are more encouraged and report the same. But I don't think it's that it's not about this other thing, because we see that actually in 65% of the cases, citizens don't report discrimination, which is out of ignorance, and out of fact, they don't trust the institutions of the state. I'd also like to hear perhaps from the attorney general this remarkable jump in the number of applications 78% compared to 2012. More or less, if we exclude these two new moments, maybe I missed one, the picture of Croatia looks like this. 1/5 citizens live at risk of poverty, citizens do not trust institutions, 85% of Croatian citizens think that the judiciary is not independent, citizens feel the most injustice in their jobs and feel discriminated mostly because of age or feel that they are discriminated because they are too young on the one hand or on the other, because they are too old. There are no electricity in 126 villages and villages. In 2018 in Croatia, our citizens in 128 villages have no electricity. They light candles, they have batteries. What are we talking about here today? When this is our picture of Croatia. 40% of Roma members of the national minority do not have the most basic needs, there is no directorship, but there is no food. Al is a large part of Croatian citizens who are not Roma, but are also facing this problem. Local self-government units simply do not have financial capacity to finance enough and meet the needs of citizens for soup kitchens and shelters, and there should be serious consideration about the state starting something to help this. I think that there is also room for this in the EU funds because let us not forget that the EU is very concerned that the funds are invested in equating or correcting or reducing differences in society, in particular preventing the risk of poverty, etc. What we can do from this Croatian Parliament, we can discuss today and discuss here and about a referendum that is really dangerous for Croatian society and about a new legislative provision in new amendments to the Law on Education and Education, which not only does not provide for the introduction of civil education as a separate subject, which in some way is one of the remarks of the minister, but opens one, pardoning the Ombudsman, but opens up an additional space for the further division of the segregation of students to those who listen to religious science, does not listen to religious science, means these pilgrims, teachers to express themselves so plastically, so tomorrow perhaps to children whose parents, I will repeat, believe that life begins with conception, not by birth, so their parents will not want their children to listen to these contents, so maybe they will end up in the halls again. So children whose children are against, children whose parents are against vaccinations, etc., whose children whose parents do not accept, do not admit that there are others, different, that there are homosexuals, transgenders, so where does this lead? Are we as a state, our ministry instead of easing differences in the education system, instead of learning tolerance, acceptance, respect, that of these young, young today children, tomorrow responsible citizens are building people, above all people, to be human. I don't care what you're wearing, what you're proud of, what your status is material, where you come from, but to look at you as a human being, instead of doing it, we'll be working on additional divisions. As of tomorrow, we can conduct a better free legal aid campaign for our citizens, open an emergency tender for a free legal aid service provider, not to be as late as last year I am also completing the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, asking them to do their job, i.e. to do reports on the implementation of the measures, i.e.... [[Thank you, fellow thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86116	Thank you. Next individual debate, colleague Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Madam Attorney General. In my debate, I will talk about something that may not be directly related to the text of the report on the work of the Ombudsman. But, therefore, it is directly related to her work and I find it necessary to talk about it. As you know, the attorney general has put a considerable amount of time and effort into determining the circumstances, the deaths, the Afghan girl Madina. It was one case that rocked Croatia, because I believe that no one who is normal, no one who is well-intentioned, wants and is not happy to listen when a child dies on the track. The attorney general has helped to shed light on at least a part through her work and action if not all the circumstances surrounding this tragic event. But not only that, because of the actions of the attorney general, we had the opportunity to find out that there were serious problems with state border surveillance. The Ombudsman asked for certain reports from the state authorities, after which, in response to the state authorities, we learned that, for example, at that time, when the data was sought, there were no surveillance cameras, and after that, the MPs and I personally asked a number of questions to the government about the state border surveillance, so we had to find out for example that the system that was installed all the time had serious work problems, that in present failures, that there was no control over certain areas of the border and basically that something that we paid dearly does not work. Of course, it was interesting that what we paid dearly, it often didn't work, at those very moments, when in those videos, you could see some situations that would be most easily questionable. But it's not a dispute, because the attorney general was doing her job, and we, as parliamentary agents, were doing our job, but where does the problem arise? The problem arises when the attorney general, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, begins to do his job under the Law on the Ombudsman, to warn the competent authorities, but also to warn the public. Warn of these citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the extreme line through this report that is before us, to warn us both parliamentary representatives and MPs. So, although it is the duty of the attorney general to warn the public and talk about the problems she encountered in her work because that is why Ombucman and we have, the pressures came from the state bodies not to do so. Pressures have come, as a speech on the problems of the attorney general could endanger the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia. Look, if you warn about any problems, we're jeopardizing the interests of this country. It's a shame and an outrageous shame, because for some in this country, it doesn't seem to endanger the strategic interests themselves, the problems and their existence, but strategic interests threaten when we point to problems. Instead of correcting the quality of state border surveillance, instead of correcting the treatment of immigrants, instead of defining protocols and preventing accidents such as the one from a few days ago, where the vehicle was shot, so when it failed to stop, and the two children received serious physical injuries, we want to move the problems under the carpet, and those who talk about problems, accuse them of jeopardising the strategic interests of the Republic. I will repeat once again, the interests of the Republic of Croatia, endanger those who do not solve problems, endanger those who do not implement reforms, endanger them those who do not do their job, and thus maintain the status quo and not those who, in accordance with their constitutional and legal obligation to these problems, warn them, and that is the taste of everything. We don't have an attorney-general, we don't have an attorney-general, we don't have an attorney-general, we don't have any other lawyers, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law in-law, we don't have a lawyer-law, we don't have a lawyer-law, we don't have a lawyer-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law-law-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law-law-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-law, we don't have a lawyer-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-in-in-law-law-law, we don't have a lawyer-in-in-in-law, we don't have no-law, we don't have a-law, we don't have no-law, we don't have a lawyer-law, we don't have a lawyer-law, we don't have no, we don't have a lawyer-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-law, we don't-law, we don't-law, we don't-law, we don't have a-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-law-in-law-law-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-law, we don't-in-in-in-in-law-law, we don', we don's-law, we don't-in-in-in-in-in-law-law-in-in-law-law-in-in-in-in-in-in My colleagues and colleagues, those who warn about problems are not the bad guys, they are the ones who can but do not want to solve these problems, and I call on all of us, everyone who is sitting here today to decide on this report, to vote for this report, to send a strong message to all the institutions, and primarily to the Ombudsman institutions to keep doing their jobs, to keep warning of problems and to help turn Croatia into a regulated state, because this is their job and they have to work and not to castrate them and to prevent them from doing what we did a few years ago, or several months ago, or a lawyer for children, first not accepting its report because we were not satisfied with its content, and after that, and shifting them. We have also done similarly with the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest because obviously there is still an extremely strong resistance to independent institutions without pressure and, more importantly, despite the pressures, they are doing their job responsibly. Dear colleagues and colleagues, problems must be discussed in Croatia, a fundamental feature of democracy. Democracy must be able to endure criticism, democracy must be able to hear what is wrong with it and then fix it. Democracy doesn't stick its head in the sand, democracy doesn't shut up, and democracy is particularly important, it doesn't make anything happen around it, so whatever happens to the girl's death, whether it happens to abuse asylum seekers, it's not like the state administration. When we vote on this report, we will choose whether to keep quiet or let those whose job it is talk about problems and encourage us to finally solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86118	We have a replica on your exhibit, colleague Željko Glasnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86119	Mr. Grbin, full of the mouth of democracy, etc. Some short questions. Recently your leader spoke up, said he should return the spirit of collectiveization from '45, it began destroying the Croatian village, we know what it was. It's the only country that's had the communist country's rural riots since '45. where people were killed and hanged. What do you think of that? What does Mr. Obersnell, who appears from the cruisers of Aurora and Leningrad, think is that the same worldview of the Bolshevik Revolution that killed tens of millions of Christians, is that your worldview as Mr. Obersnel? And what do you think they're supposed to be sitting in a court of law, and that's what I'm going to start with, those who robbed state-owned companies, snitched for the Uboba whose files are in the SUP? That's the third question. Is it a fundamental human right, a right to the truth, and why is it being challenged here?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86120	Replication response. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86121	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With all due respect to all present in the assembly, I have one 90% exposure of my fellow Glasnović failed to understand, so I will concentrate on what I am along with the fence of course that I may have misunderstood. My colleague Obersnel has been mayor of Rijeka for many years. Citizens and citizens of Rijeka are constantly choosing him because they are satisfied with his work. Insulting Mr. Obersnel in this way, you insult the vast majority of Rijeka, the majority of the rivers that are tolerance, democracy, human rights, the rights of national minorities in the first place. You have shown not only that you do not care about the value of this country, not only do you not care about the citizens but that you do not care about Croatia, so be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86122	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86123	I was primarily insulted by Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86124	What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86125	So the article insults the council representative. This Regulation shall enter into Well look well, it's targeted and healthy... he understood exactly what I said he didn't answer any questions and it deliberately. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86126	I beg you, thank you, thank you. We're moving on, colleague Tomislav Sagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86127	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable attorneys with associates, state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. There is a report before us, although some say there is another one in a series that is similar, but it can't be different when things don't change significantly despite the recommendations that the Ombudsman makes from year to year. I'm going to say something about these recommendations later, but now we're going to give the introduction to say what seems important to stress. Anyone in the Republic of Croatia can be any citizen of the Republic of Croatia if not today, if he wasn't yesterday then he can be the victim of discrimination tomorrow. Every man can be threatened by his human rights and freedoms, and it is his job as counsel to protect these rights and those freedoms. We also like to say in technology that each system is as good and durable as it is durable and good as its weakest part. It's exactly the sense of protection and minority rights of all minorities, as you said I would paraphrasise one specific member of the minority when you said, is that we are like you, and you like us would be most of us, and you are minorities. So protecting the rights of minorities is a feature of an advanced and developed society and we strive to do so, and this is exactly what this report tells us how we can reach that goal. I will single out only two important things in this report that speak of what can cause a state where human rights are not respected and which, then, this disregard for human rights is caused by much deeper consequences. In fact, there is one series called "Seconds to disaster", this series is good because it shows that all major accidents are created by matching a series of adverse circumstances, so there is not enough just one adverse circumstance but a series of unfavourable circumstances. And the correcting of the observations made by such a report actually leads to the creation of more favourable circumstances so that there is no possibility of discrimination. I'll read a piece of the report in his summary. "Through the tax policy of the state directly shows the attitude towards human rights. By providing sufficient resources for their achievement and by designing a tax that will ensure that people below or near the poverty line are not pushed further into it. I'd like to hear this form from the Minister of Finance. This is very good, all praise. I will once again read the first sentence, through the tax policy of the state directly shows the attitude towards human rights. This is what we need to be aware of who we are in politics, should be aware of the government of the Republic of Croatia that there is a key. We can, someone here told my colleague Vučetić that he is philosophizing, but if the state treats its citizens by putting them in the hands and the executive mafia, be careful here is talking about the executive mafia, if FINA, our financial agency is standing in the chain of the executive mafia, so what kind of society are we, and how can we expect much greater progress? So for this, for this, every commendation. And the other thing, it says, is work-and-service issues. Problems in this area can be linked to the growing departure of citizens from the Republic of Croatia, whether or not they are employed, how much their salaries, whether they receive them at all, whether their accounts are blocked and whether their family status or the developed part of the country they are leaving. Same good thing. The government of the Republic of Croatia is currently facing this problem, the whole society is facing the problem of leaving people, the depopulation, the very poor demographic situation, and the report clearly states that the main problems involved in leaving people in this country are because some are working and not getting paid. One of the big problems is that with us, it can happen that the man who works gets less than the one who doesn't. It's unacceptable for a man who's worked for 40 years to retire less than a man who's never worked in his life. These are things that deeply insult human rights and human dignity. You listed a series of problems in this attorney's report. We had a few days ago and here the Law on Encouragement Building and somehow it seems that we all go in society, if we want to destroy something, that's all we need to encourage. And then when we're instigating something, then it's all ruined in the end. Therefore, competitions that are non-transparent, competitions that have been set up, set up in advance, who will be admitted and associated hard coming to work, inadequate wages. So that's how some workers get, as you listed minimum wage and the rest get their hands on it. And there is and believe me, there are workers who get minimum wage and then some of that salary must be returned to the employer, believe that it exists in the Republic of Croatia. And there's a housing question. When we add it all together, then we come to the conclusion why people leave this country. What I also find interesting in the report is that a third of the population does not have digital skills. We are here, the Minister of Education has announced the measure of introducing information as a mandatory subject. Some have already opposed it. And then we have a third of people who don't have those skills and you know what's going on right now? Now one reverse logic, and you have well stated in your report that these people have now become discriminated against because they do not have digital skills to use those services that these skills require. And then as far as education is concerned, I think that in point 10 of the recommendation you cited the introduction of civic education because we have a situation that all 3% of the population participates in lifelong education and civil education has, in fact there is a high degree of correlation between these two types of education because through civic education citizens understand because they see mechanisms that can be used in the future to make life easier and participate in life and that later, both by retraining and all the opportunities that the system provides them with as good a position as possible in society. And finally about this 231 recommendation. The recommendations are very good, they can change the picture of Croatia and let the government of the Republic of Croatia take them, let the political option take them either. Because someone can make a new political option and these recommendations of yours can be your program. If you were to meet these recommendations that you have stated here, it would certainly benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia not only in the area of protection of human rights but also in raising the quality of life of the population of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86128	Thank you. Two replicas. First colleague Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86129	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear colleague Žagar, it is good to take a critical look at everything around you and it is always good to hear the other side, but here you mentioned the opinion about tax policy and what the minister should hear, or all of us here because we are also responsible for the functioning of society. And then they should also be objective when we talk about the tax system and what has been done so far and in this mandate, and that is to increase the non-taxable part and allow the units of local self-government to have the largest share in that same income tax and at the same time to see objectively the whole situation that, from these and some other means, they have to be serviced and very much of the demands of any health care, any welfare, any compensation of various kinds. So you still need the width.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86130	Thank you. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86131	Thank you. Dear counterpart Peric, of course I agree with you and when we discussed the reform, the mini tax reform was seen in fact to increase tax revenues by reducing tax burden. What's a big problem, and we agree, so there's a full need if we take the health care, if we take the pension system, that's 30 billion each, we can hardly make it happen. However, if we free society, we relax in order for one of the politicians to say it will certainly change the conditions themselves, people will not leave this country and we will have more income than we get if we have a tax press just thinking that we're going to make up for all the holes that exist today in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86132	Thank you. And colleague Ivica Misic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86133	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Sagar, you've talked a long time ago about the salaries of the unemployed, the workers, entrepreneurs who don't pay their wages, unfortunately, and there are such, but I'd say, we're out of that communist system where we just hate to reward, and we underestimate the work. So I'm asking you, how much does he receive from the salary budget and not work? That's what I'd like to ask a question. Of course those people who work and don't get paid, I'm talking about workers and entrepreneurs who don't pay. How can we feed the unhappiness in this country, and we know how much administration we have, and how much we love it. How many pensioners we have, how much easier to criticise now, we have come out of the communist party system, are still doing this in our system. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86134	Thank you. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86135	Dear fellow Music, here's the deal. I'll try that because it's short notice. Our law is the legal framework, the area of legislation, whether in the field of human rights, or in the field of labour legislation of those laws concerning the development of entrepreneurship. When we look at these legal frameworks, we actually have a clear picture of the unreal world. That's our problem. We have here, and in the field of human rights, protection of minorities we have excellent laws. However, everything is getting stuck in the implementation somewhere. I agree with you when we talk about entrepreneurs, there are a series of measures that entrepreneurs can use, they're given it, and when they really need to use it, then there's actually a series of papers that I can't just collect. It's the same with those who want to get a job. But if we don't relieve the entrepreneurs that they can increase us then and the net salary, we won't achieve success.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86136	Thank you. On behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA final colleague Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86137	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the female attorney general with his associates. So the Living Wall will support this report. It is very exhaustive, very quality, written in detail, informatively, really worth reading because we can all learn from this Report. What I might say about the end itself, which is not in the report itself, and perhaps it could be in one of the following reports is the effect of so - called. Euro-Atlantic integration into the lives of citizens, on the life of each of us, and it is mostly negative and should also be highlighted. So, let's say that if we analyze the situation compared to 2013 and 2018, if we use official statistics we see that the corruption index in Croatia is bigger now than it was before joining the EU. Also, if we compare the situation in 2012-2018 we see that the debt of blocked citizens is greater than it was before. If we compare the ratio of employees and pensioners, we see that this ratio is significantly more unfavourable now than it was six years ago. If we look at the secession for the military, and we talk when we join NATO that these separations will be smaller, that we will be protected, that there will be virtually no need for the military. Unfortunately, we see that the allocations for the army are bigger, that we buy I don't know, the foundry in Israel to eventually exhibit at the Technical Museum in Zagreb. We also see that we're selling weapons to Saudi Arabia, and Saudi Arabia is selling it to terrorists, using it for aggression in Yemen. I do not understand the benefit of Croatian citizens except to suffer only damage and to be poorer and even more disgraced in international relations. We also see that the state of the environment is much worse than it was before. That this high home or government through its parliamentary majority pushes into Croatia's GMOs, to push glyphosate, very harmful projects such as LNG terminals, that it is a very bad waste management, that practically every little larger city in the Republic of Croatia, whether Rijeka, Split, Zagreb, Koprivnica, Varazdin have huge problems with waste, that there is a very high level of corruption, a very high level of conclusion of harmful contracts. We also see that the Republic of Croatia has lost practically all its strategic companies, that everything has sold out. Here, this year what we are losing, we are losing the food industry that is moving into the hands of the Russians, or Americans, and in the future we will be practically without any single important company, a large company that could contribute to a slightly greater growth of GDP. What is also very important to emphasise is that only in last year 2017. The Republic of Croatia has returned to freedom of the media for 11 seats. So, the media are essentially less free, much worse reporting on the state of society, often through these media hate speech and insults are called freedom of speech, the topics of importance for the Croatian future are silenced, people who are afraid of conspiracy theories. Instead of criticising the work of the executive authorities, media often serve to account with the opposition, although the opposition does not essentially affect what is happening in society at the moment. Can we suspect a conflict of interest here? I guess so. Can we suspect a breach of the press code? I guess so. And I repeat again, that's not what I said or the Living Wall, but that's what independent, objective, professional analysis shows. There is also a number of discrimination on other issues, on education, cultural content, religious freedoms, often in society there is a hysteria of people of certain religions or nationalities all appear to be enemies and these are simply all things where society as a whole, and especially politicians who participate in the highest institutions of this country must seriously work in the next period on the well-being of all citizens of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86138	Thank you. I, on behalf of the Proposer, i.e. rapporteur for Ms Lora Vidovic, attorney general. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. This debate was really very constructive and I would dare say much more constructive than I've had the opportunity to testify so far. This is the sixth debate on the Annual Report that I submit to the Croatian Parliament and in my opinion is one step forward because it has shown the width of the debate on the different topics that the report is talking about and has largely referred to specific recommendations again from different areas. I think it is extremely important and I would especially like to invite you once again, of course I agreed with all those MPs and MPs who said that the report is a very good basis for all your discussions during the year on the topics that are being discussed and through the narrative itself on topics, but also through concrete recommendations. In addition to meeting the recommendation that has been discussed a lot, it is a very important session of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities that was to be held this morning, and we have delayed it most likely for the start of the seventh month in which we will go through specific recommendations and see what are the ways for their best implementation, and we will certainly remain in communication with all bodies that are responsible for meeting these recommendations through correspondence and meetings and try to see what is possible for those to implement as much as possible. And finally, when we talk about recommendations, it is important to mention again the government's report on the fulfillment of recommendations that has been missing for a number of years. It would be very important for their better implementation and we hope that the government will begin again with the submission of the report to the Croatian Parliament. As for the increase in the number of cases and office capacity, as reported, the number of cases compared to 2012 is higher by more than 70%, while the office has a slightly less than 30% higher personnel capacity, and the budget is increased by about 30%. The percentage of 70% increase is certainly due to stronger media presence, better availability of offices to citizens. We have opened three district offices in Osijek, Rijeka and Split where citizens can contact us, we are also trying to be available for personal contacts and phone contacts and e-mails and all other ways to help citizens as much as possible. In this regard, I must point out that an increase of 70% is not a figure that speaks of a greater number of concrete complaints against citizens than the cases we have opened. So some are on our own initiative, some refer to general initiatives, not to the protection of a particular particular citizen. And we must say, Mr Babić mentioned this about the number of complaints about discrimination, the specifics are not only Croatian and not just the last few years, but there is a large no reporting of discrimination for a number of reasons. We have data on research you can see them in more detail on our website and regarding the ignorance of the system of protection against discrimination or what is discrimination against fear, misunderstandings, the length of judicial proceedings, the costs associated with judicial proceedings, which all seems very discouraging to citizens to discriminate against the application. A few MPs mentioned yesterday my courage to work on this job and to file a report. I don't feel anything particularly brave, I don't think I'm particularly brave, but I have a good legal framework that gives me guarantees for safety, independence and independence in work. I think it's really important. Unfortunately, the same provisions are not in the special defenders' laws, and I think it's a very bad thing. Of course the pressures of all these five years since I've been the attorney's attorney was. The strongest among them is, of course, the rejection of the report in the Croatian Parliament, but neither the pressure nor those who may have come specifically with certain items have affected in the way I work, and we have to point out that there have been no pressures in these five years that have asked me to stop working on a particular case. So no one asked for the end of any action, but that in terms of communication with the public there were messages that asked me not to communicate with the public about certain problems, which, of course, I did not do or did not listen to. Compared to some of the topics discussed yesterday and today, perhaps the most significant yesterday concerned the issue of demographics, or the report was assessed as the best demographic ram program. The recommendations contained in the report can certainly contribute to better protection of human rights in Croatia, a better situation on the ground, and certainly a greater and better quality of life, or the rest of people in the country. What we often hear in the field when we talk to people what we see from people's complaints when they come to us, for example in the field of employment, it's impossible to get a job if you're not in a party that's in power where you live, whatever party that party is. It's impossible to get a job if you're not political, friendly or rabbinic about those who make those decisions. It seems very discouraging to people, when they get such a job, they feel obliged to the ones who hired them. And in Ireland, many employment agencies fight to get you a job, and then you don't owe anyone. And that it is an atmosphere in which then really many decide that they are better off looking for a future somewhere else and not in Croatia. The responsibility to change that is up to you, to you personally. You're political elites, you're at the top of your political parties, you can influence on the ground in the local community where people live, such a situation changes. And that the criterion is excellence and quality, not political likeness or rabbinic and friendly relationships that citizens write to us very often and say that's exactly the case. There have also been a lot of talk on other topics, the importance of education, not just civil education, but the education of experts, especially for the prevention of discrimination, that is something that we will certainly continue to monitor in the future, freedom of movement, the rights of persons with disabilities, that is, women's rights, of course, that is something that we are following as the central body responsible for the fight against discrimination, but primarily in the jurisdiction of the special defender. One of those topics, also mentioned yesterday, is vaccination, and I would come up with this opportunity and ask my parents to vaccinate, to give their children to be vaccinated, to be vaccinated. All scientific evidence, unquestionably speaking, is that vaccination is extremely important for the health of both individuals and communities. The Convention on the Rights of the Child says that in all activities of the State, the primary interest must be the best interest of the child, as parents do not have the right to decide whether or not their child will go to primary school or not, should not have the right to decide whether the child will be vaccinated or not is a decision that can and should only be made by a doctor. And here I am, once again, going to take this opportunity and appeal to as much fissure as possible in all parts of Croatia. Finally, a few of you have said and I would agree with that, this is one report again, whether next year will be the same as this. We still try every year, introduce new heads, talk about some new topics, the tone is certainly the same and repeated year after year. There's no magic wand, there's really no human rights are social, social changes are permanent, nothing happens overnight, and the report I wouldn't like to be seen as criticism, but as a constructive contribution, as something we'll talk about, that next year at least some percentage of the recommendations would be more fulfilled. The impact of the report, these changes, how much recommendations will be implemented depends on you, is on you not only when voting on the report, but when voting on each item of the agenda, during the year, relating to the human rights of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86140	We have four replicas on your display, colleague Alfirev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86141	Thank you, Vice President. The esteemed Attorney General. You said yourself there's no magic wand, but we also know that 100 times the told lie becomes true, and you'd say, "What, then, 100 times, done or spoken, intimidation, what's going on?" Because we're witnessing all those policies or initiatives that were one faith yesterday, the fear of, say, members of the LGBT community or the fear of vaccination, you've either said today fear of gender or minorities. So I would ask you if such policies or initiatives lead to the construction of society as you have said in which different respects are respected, i.e. divergence does not lead to discriminatory treatment.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86142	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86143	Thank you very much. There's been a lot of talk today about tolerance. Tolerance means respecting what we disagree with. Something to endure, to live together, to learn from one another and to build understanding. And it is certainly tolerance for understanding, dialogue and acceptance of diversity that we must work on very much in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86144	Thank you. The replica of my colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86145	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable lawyers, corruption, clientele, nepotism, high levels of poverty, low education structure, depopulation, someone asks in Slavonia, so is this done on purpose? I even began to doubt that such indications might exist. This corresponds to political powers, especially locals, that when such a situation is bad economic, when people are out of work, then they can be blackmailed, they can be asked to sign a party card, so somewhere in the offices of the state administration that the jacks are sent to the basement to sign an access card for HDZ so they can, it's in my county so they can get a job. Here, now in the area of my municipality, which has 3400 hectares, the availability of state agricultural land, the descendants of Count Draskovic now seek 100 hectares to return, they will probably take that land, leave the forest, people are getting smaller, who knows how it will all come together and end up.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86146	Thank you. Replica number three, colleagues of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86147	The Honorable Attorney General
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86148	Hey, buddy, let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Excuse me, I thought you looked at me, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86149	You'll be in line soon, Comrade Beus. Your Honor, Madam Attorney, I would like to thank you for your work but also for what you said, which is that at the end of your mind you do not fall under pressure and that you will continue in your work and your action. But I would also like to say that it is part of your work and part of your actions to report what you saw and to the public. Because if you keep your mouth shut, it's like a question of whether a tree really fell in the woods if no one noticed or saw it. So your job, your actions are also public notice. And if someone's pressuring you not to talk about what you saw, then it's the same thing, at least to me when to tell you stop doing your job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86150	Thank you. And here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney General, at one point you said you wouldn't want the report to be considered a criticism but a reference. That would be wonderful if we lived in an ideal society. However, I will remind you of the Republic of Croatia's current chairmanship of the Council of Europe in a set of priority issues, no less or less it has put the protection of minorities and the fight against corruption. Whoever has a healthy head and reads your report will call it a paradox. Because it turns out we haven't actually taken out half of what we're making others as topics where they should look up to us. You also said that tolerance is respect for others and different ones. It has no doubt and needs to build a society of tolerance. But let's never forget because we will be run over by others that tolerance does not mean tolerating intolerant ones. They are the ones who destroy the essence of society.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86152	Thank you. Thank you, everyone. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2018-06-13-0.u86153	Report by the Advocate General for 2017. The applicant is the attorney general, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: A report by the Advocate General for 2017 is accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that with 114 votes for, 1 abstention and 3 votes against the delivered conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
